MOCKSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 5-6-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
MOCKSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
TOWN OFFICIALS
Mayor                       William J. (Will) Marklin III
                            
Commissioners               Johnny Frye
                           Rob Taylor
                           Carl Lambert
                           Justin Draughn
                           Jenny Stevenson
                            
Town Manager                Lee Rollins
                            
Town Attorney               Lee Rollins
                            
Town Clerk/Finance Director Lynn Trivette
                            
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF
MOCKSVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF MOCKSVILLE DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower
and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Town of Mocksville has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town
of Mocksville of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN OF
MOCKSVILLE:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Mocksville as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Mocksville, North
Carolina.
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Charter
         Chapter I: General Provisions
         Chapter II: Administration
         1.   In General
         2.   Town Board Meetings
         3.   Administrative Organization
         4.   Personnel
         5.   Appointed Boards and Commissions
         Chapter III: General Regulations
         1.   Animals and Fowl
         2.   Parades and Demonstrations
         3.   Cemeteries
         4.   Parks and Recreation
         Chapter IV: Finance and Taxation
         1.   In General
         2.   Occupational Licenses, Taxes and Regulations
         3.   Pawnbrokers
         4.   Peddling and Soliciting
         4A.   Regulation of Street Solicitors
         5.   Pool, Billiard Tables and Other Tables, Bowling Alleys and Other
Alleys
         6.   Taxicabs
         7.   Garage Sales
         8.   Privilege License Tax for Electronic Gaming Operations
         Chapter V: Public Safety
         1.   States of Emergency
         2.   Fire Protection and Prevention
         3.   Building Codes and Inspection
         4.   Minimum Housing
         5.   Public Health Nuisances
         6.   Abandoned, Junked and Nuisance Vehicles
         7.   Criminal Nuisances
         8.   Adult Establishments
         Chapter VI: Municipal Utilities and Services
         1.   Water
         2.   Sewer Use
         3.   Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
         4.   Grease Interceptors
         5.   Backflow Prevention
         Chapter VII: General Offenses and Miscellaneous Provisions
         1.   Beer and Wine Consumption on Public Property; Disposal of
Containers
         2.   Discharge of Firearms
         3.   Damage to Municipal Property
         4.   Loitering on Private Property
         5.   Noise
         Chapter VIII: Land Use
         1.   Planning
         2.   Subdivision Regulations
         3.   Zoning
         Chapter IX: Streets and Sidewalks
         1.   In General
         2.   Excavations; Driveways
         3.   Trees
         4.   Addressing and Road Naming
         Chapter X: Traffic
         1.   In General
         2.   Operation of Motor Vehicles
         3.   Parking
         4.   Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain
Streets
         5.   Schedules
         Appendix A: Franchises
         Parallel References
         References to North Carolina General Statutes
         References to 1989 Code and 2003 Code
         Index
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature of
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Town of
Mocksville is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and alt provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED, AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Mocksville
on the 7th day of February, 2012.
ATTEST:
                     F.W. Slate /s/
                     Mayor
Christine W. Bralley /s/
Town Clerk
CHARTER
Subpart A.   Charter
   
Article I.   Corporate Powers
   
Article II.   Board of Commissioners
   
Article III.   Municipal Elections
   
Article IV.   Administrative Service
   
Article V.   Miscellaneous Provisions
Subpart B.   Related Local Laws
SUBPART A. CHARTER
ARTICLE I.
CORPORATE POWERS.
§ 1.1 INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   (A)   The inhabitants of the Town of Mocksville, North Carolina, within the
boundaries as established in §
1.3 of this charter or as hereafter established in the manner provided by law,
shall continue to be a body politic and corporate by name the Town of
Mocksville, and under that name shall have perpetual succession; may use a
corporate seal; may sue and be sued; may acquire property within or without its
boundaries for any municipal purpose, in fee simple or lesser interest or
estate, by purchase, gift, devise, lease or condemnation and may sell, lease,
hold, manage and control such property as its interests may require; and,
except as prohibited by the constitution of North Carolina or restricted by its
charter, the Town of Mocksville shall have and may exercise all municipal
powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of every name and nature
whatsoever. The following shall be deemed to be a part of the powers conferred
upon the Town of Mocksville by this article:
      (1)   To levy, assess and collect taxes and to borrow money within the
limits prescribed by general law; and to levy and collect special assessments
for benefits conferred.
      (2)   To furnish all local public services; to purchase, hire, construct,
own, maintain and operate or lease local public utilities; to acquire, by
condemnation or otherwise, within or without the corporate limits, property
necessary for any such purposes, subject to restrictions imposed by general law
for the protection of other communities; and to grant local public utility
franchises and regulate the exercise thereof.
      (3)   To make local public improvements and to acquire, by condemnation,
or otherwise, property within or without its corporate limits necessary for
such improvements; and also to acquire an excess over that needed for such
improvement, and to sell or lease such excess property with restrictions, in
order to protect and preserve the improvement.
      (4)   To issue and sell bonds on the security of any such excess
property, or of any public utility owned by the town, or of the revenues
thereof, or of both, including the case of a public utility, if deemed
desirable by the town, a franchise stating the terms upon which, in case of
foreclosure, the purchaser may operate such utility.
      (5)   To organize and administer public libraries.
      (6)   To adopt and enforce within its limits local police, sanitary and
other similar regulations not in conflict with general laws.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this act the board of commissioners
shall have authority to determine by whom and in what manner the powers granted
by this article shall be exercised.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 1.)
§ 1.2 ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated therein or
implied thereby, or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended
that the Town of Mocksville shall have, and may exercise, all powers which,
under the constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
charter specifically to enumerate. All powers of the town, whether expressed or
implied, shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this charter, or, if
not prescribed therein, then in the manner provided by ordinance or resolution
of the board of commissioners.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 2.)
§ 1.3 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the town are hereby declared one mile in every
direction from the center of the intersection of Depot Street and Main Street
(at the site of the old courthouse), said site to be the center of the
chartered limits of said town.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 3.)
ARTICLE II.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
§ 2.1 CREATION, SALARY AND COMPOSITION OF MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this charter all powers of the town
shall be vested in a board of commissioners consisting of five members and a
mayor elected from the town at large in the manner provided in
Article III.
   (B)   Each member of the board of commissioners shall receive a salary, the
amount of which shall be prescribed by ordinance. Provided, however, that the
present mayor and the members of the board of commissioners shall continue to
receive the same salary until the same is changed as provided herein. No
ordinance fixing or changing the salary of members of the board of
commissioners shall become effective during the current term of office of the
members of the board of commissioners enacting such ordinance.
   (C)   Each member of the board of commissioners must be a resident of the
town and registered to vote in the town. A member of the board of commissioners
who ceases to be a resident of the town, ceases to be registered to vote in the
town or who is convicted of a crime while in office shall immediately forfeit
the office of commissioner.
Editor's note:
   Regular municipal elections are now held in November of odd-numbered years.
The organizational meeting of the board is held at the first regular meeting in
December.
Statutory reference:
   Time of municipal primaries and elections, see G.S. § 163-279
(Charter amended, 1-7-1992, Amended 7-28-2003; Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 2.2 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   At 4:00 p.m. o'clock on the first Tuesday of December following a regular
municipal election the board of commissioners shall meet at the usual place for
holding its meetings and the newly elected members shall assume the duties of
office. Thereafter the board of commissioners shall meet at such times as may
be prescribed by ordinance or resolution, but not less frequently than once
each month. Special meetings shall be called by the clerk upon the written
request of the mayor or two members of the board of commissioners. Any such
notice shall state the subject to be considered at the special meeting and no
other subject shall be there considered. All meetings of the board of
commissioners and of committees thereof shall be opened to the public, and the
rules of the board of commissioners shall provide that citizens of the town
shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard at any such meetings in regard
to any matter considered thereat.
Editor's note:
   Regular municipal elections are now held in November of odd-numbered years.
The organizational meeting of the board is held at the first regular meeting in
December.
Statutory reference:
   Time of municipal primaries and elections, see G.S. § 163.279
(Charter 1989, Sec. 5.; Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 2.3 MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At its first meeting in the month of December following a regular municipal
election, the board of commissioners shall choose one of its members as vice
chairman, who shall act as mayor pro tem. The mayor shall preside at meetings
of the board of commissioners and shall exercise such other powers and perform
such other duties as are or may be conferred and imposed upon him by the
General Laws of North Carolina, by this charter and the ordinances of the town.
He shall be recognized as the head of the town government for all ceremonial
purposes, by the courts for serving civil processes, and by the governor for
purposes of military law. In time of public danger or emergency the mayor
shall, if so authorized and directed by vote of the board of commissioners,
take command of the police, maintain order and enforce the law. In case of the
absence or disability of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall act as mayor during
the continuance of the absence or disability.
Editor's note:
   Regular municipal elections are now held in November of odd-numbered years.
The organizational meeting of the board is held at the first regular meeting in
December.
Statutory reference:
   Time of municipal primaries and elections, see G.S. § 163.279
(Charter 1989, Sec. 6.; Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 2.4 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS' RULES.
   The board of commissioners shall be the judge of the election and
qualifications of its members and the mayor, and in such cases shall have power
to subpoena witnesses and compel the production of all pertinent books,
records, and papers; but the decision of the board of commissioners in any such
case shall be subject to review by the courts. The board of commissioners shall
determine its own rules and order of business and keep a journal of its
proceedings.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 7.)
§ 2.5 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members elected to the board of commissioners shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from time to
time to compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such
penalties as may be prescribed by ordinance. The affirmative vote of a majority
of the members elected to the board of commissioners shall be necessary to
adopt any ordinances, resolutions, order or vote; except that a vote to
adjourn, or regarding the attendance of absent members, may be adopted by a
majority of the members present. No member shall be excused from voting except
on matters involving the consideration of his own official conduct or when his
financial interests are involved.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 8.)
§ 2.6 INTRODUCTION AND PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced in the board of
commissioners' meeting only in written or printed form. All ordinances, except
ordinances making appropriations and ordinances codifying or rearranging
existing ordinances or enacting a code of ordinances, shall be confined to one
subject, and the subject, or subjects, of all ordinances shall be clearly
expressed in the title. Ordinances making appropriations shall be confined to
the subject of appropriations. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
passage of all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the journal of the
proceedings of the board of commissioners. The enacting clause of all
ordinances shall be: "Be it ordained by the Town of Mocksville".
(Charter 1989, Sec. 9.)
§ 2.7 WHEN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS TAKE EFFECT; EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Ordinances making the annual tax levy, appropriation ordinances, ordinances
and resolutions pertaining to local improvements and assessments, ordinances
and resolutions providing for or directing any investigation of town affairs,
resolutions requesting information from administrative officers or directing
administrative action, and emergency measures shall take effect at the time
indicated therein. Except as otherwise prescribed in this charter, all other
ordinances and resolutions passed by the board of commissioners shall take
effect at the time indicated therein, but not less than thirty days from the
date of their passage. An emergency measure is an ordinance or resolution to
provide for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health or
safety, in which the emergency claimed is set forth and defined in a preamble
thereto. The affirmative vote of at least four members of the board of
commissioners shall be required to pass any ordinance or resolution as an
emergency measure. No measure making or amending a grant, renewal or extension
of a franchise or other special privilege shall ever be passed as an emergency
measure. No situation shall be declared an emergency by the board of
commissioners except as defined in this article, and it is the intention of
this charter that such definition shall be strictly construed by the courts.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 10.)
§ 2.8 AUTHENTICATION AND PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Upon its final passage each ordinance or resolution shall be authenticated
by the signature of the mayor and the town clerk and shall be recorded in a
book kept for that purpose. Within ten days after final passage, a notice
setting forth in brief, the substance of each ordinance shall be published or
posted at least once in such manner as the board of commissioners may
prescribe.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 11.)
ARTICLE III.
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.*
§ 3.1 DATE OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Regular elections for the offices of commissioner and mayor shall be held in
odd numbered years on the first Tuesday of November of the year in which the
election is held.
Editor's note:
   Regular town elections are now held in November of odd-numbered years.
Statutory reference:
   Time of municipal primaries and elections, see G.S. § 163-279
(Charter 1989, Sec. 12.; Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 3.2 TERM OF OFFICE OF COMMISSIONERS AND MAYOR, NONPARTISAN PLURALITY METHOD.
   The members of the Mocksville Board of Commissioners shall hereafter be
elected for four-year terms on a staggered basis as follows: At the regular
municipal election to be held in 1993, the three candidates who receive the
highest number of votes shall be elected for four-year terms, while the two
candidates who receive the next highest number of votes shall be elected for
two-year terms. Beginning at the regular municipal election to be held in 1995,
and every four years thereafter, two members of the board of commissioners
shall be elected to serve for four-year terms. Beginning at the regular
municipal election to be held in 1997, and every four years thereafter, three
members of the governing body shall be elected to serve for four-year terms. As
authorized in G.S. 160A-101(8)(a), beginning at the regular municipal election
to be held in 1999, the candidate for mayor who receives the highest number of
votes shall be elected to serve a four-year term. The election for mayor shall
be every four years thereafter. The election for the board of commissioners and
mayor shall be conducted under the nonpartisan plurality method as set out in
G.S. 163-290 and G.S. 163-292.
(Amended 8-4-1998; Charter 1989, Sec. 13., Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 3.3 ADMINISTRATION OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS GOVERNING LAW.
   Municipal elections shall be conducted by the Davie County Board of
Elections in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina applicable
to the nonpartisan plurality method of elections and all other laws to
municipal elections.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 14., Amended 9-17-2010)
§ 3.4 NOTICE OF CANDIDACY AND QUALIFICATIONS OF CANDIDATES FOR OFFICE OF
COMMISSIONER AND MAYOR.
   Any person offering himself as a candidate for commissioner of mayor of the
town must file notice and meet the qualifications impose upon a person filing
for such office as required under the provisions of G.S. 163-294.2.
Editor's note:
   Primary elections are now held in September or October.
   Pursuant to G.S. Ch. 163, the board has delegated to the county board of
elections the duty of conducting primaries and elections.
State law reference:
   Time of municipal primaries and elections, see G.S. § 163-279
(Charter 1989, Sec. 15.; Amended 9-17-2010)
ARTICLE IV.
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
§ 4.1 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The board of commissioners may appoint a town clerk, a treasurer, a tax
collector, an accountant, a town attorney, a chief of police, a fire chief, and
such other officers and employees as may be necessary, none of whom need to be
a resident of the town at the time of appointment. Provided, that the board of
commissioners may appoint one person to fill any two or more such positions.
Such employees or officers shall serve at the pleasure of the board of
commissioners and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the board
of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall fix all salaries, prescribe
bonds and require such oaths, as they may deem necessary.
Editor's note:
   Ordinance enacted on May 6, 1986, subject to referendum, provides as
follows: "Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-I0l and 160A-I02, the charter of the Town of
Mocksville as set forth in Chapter 74 of the 1963 Session Laws of North
Carolina, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the town shall
operate under the council-manager form of government in accordance with Part 2
of Article 7 of G.S. Chapter 160A and any charter provisions not in conflict
therewith".
(Charter 1989, Sec. 17.)
§ 4.2 TOWN CLERK.
   The board of commissioners shall choose a town clerk. The town clerk shall
keep the records of the board of commissioners and perform such other duties as
may be required by law or the board of commissioners.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 18.)
§ 4.3 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The attorney shall be an attorney-at-law who shall have practiced in the
State of North Carolina for at least five years. He shall be the chief legal
adviser of and attorney for the town and all departments and officers thereof
in matters relating to their official powers and duties. It shall be his duty,
either personally or by such assistants as he may designate, to perform all
services incident to the department of law; to attend all meetings of the board
of commissioners; to give advice in writing when so requested to the board of
commissioners or the director of any department; to prosecute or defend, as the
case may be, all suits or cases to which the town may be a party, to prepare
all contracts, bonds and other instruments in writing in which the town is
concerned, and to endorse on each his approval of the form and correctness
thereof, and to perform such other duties of a legal nature as the board of
commissioners may require. In addition to the duties imposed upon the town
attorney by this charter or required of him by ordinance or resolution of the
board of commissioners, he shall perform any duties imposed upon the chief
legal officers of municipalities by law.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 19.)
§ 4.4 DUTIES OF TOWN ACCOUNTANT.
   The town accountant shall prepare the budget in accordance with the General
Laws of North Carolina relating to the preparation of municipal budgets. He
shall have authority and shall be required: To maintain accounting control over
the finances of the town government, for which purpose he is empowered to
operate a set of general accounts embracing all of the financial transactions
of the town, and such subsidiary accounts and cost records as may be required
by ordinance or by the board of commissioners for purposes of administrative
direction and financial control; to prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers,
bills, or claims to be filed by all departments and agencies of the town
government; to examine and approve all contracts, orders and other documents by
which the town incurs financial obligations, having ascertained before approval
that moneys have been duly appropriated and allotted to meet such obligations
and will become available when the obligations have become due and payable; to
audit and approve all bills, invoices, payrolls, and other evidences of claims,
demands, or charges against the town government and to determine the
regularity, legality, and correctness of such claims, demands, or charges; to
make monthly reports on all receipts and expenditures of the town government to
the mayor and board of commissioners and to take monthly reports on funds,
appropriations, allotments, encumbrances, and authorized payments to the mayor,
the board of commissioners, and the head of the department or agency directly
concerned; to inspect and audit any accounts or records of financial
transactions which may be maintained by any department or agency of the town
government apart from or subsidiary to the general accounts; and to perform
such other duties pertaining to the financial records of the town government as
the board of commissioners may require by ordinance.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 20.)
§ 4.5 DUTIES OF TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   The tax collector shall collect all taxes, licenses, fees, and other moneys
belonging to the town government, subject to the provisions of this charter and
ordinances enacted thereunder, and he shall diligently comply with and enforce
the General Laws of North Carolina relating to the collection, sale and
foreclosure of taxes by municipalities. It shall be the duty of the tax
collector to deposit daily in the town depository all money belonging to the
town.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 21.)
§ 4.6 DUTIES OF TOWN TREASURER.
   The treasurer, if any, shall have custody of and shall disburse all moneys
belonging to the town government subject to the provisions of this charter and
ordinances enacted thereunder; shall have custody of all investments and
invested funds of the town or in possession of the town in a fiduciary
capacity, and shall keep a record of such investments, and shall have custody
of all bonds and certificates of town indebtedness including such bonds and
certificates unissued or cancelled, and the receipt and delivery of town bonds
and certificates for transfer, registration, or exchange.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 22.)
§ 4.7 CUSTODY OF TOWN MONEY.
   All moneys received by any department or agency of the town for or in
connection with the business of the town government shall be paid promptly into
the town depository. Such institution shall be designated by the board of
commissioners in accordance with such regulations and subject to such
requirements as to security for deposits and interest thereon as may be
established by ordinance. All interest on moneys belonging to the town shall
accrue to the benefit of the town government. All moneys belonging to the town
government shall be disbursed only on vouchers signed by the finance chairman
and countersigned by the town clerk.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 23.)
§ 4.8 ISSUANCE OF BONDS.
   The town may issue bonds for the purpose and in the manner prescribed by the
General Laws of North Carolina for the issuance of bonds by municipalities.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 24.)
§ 4.9 PURCHASE PROCEDURE.
   Before making any purchase for supplies, materials, equipment, opportunity
shall be given for competition, under such rules and regulations, and with such
exceptions, as the board of commissioners may prescribe by ordinance. All
expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment, involving more than two
thousand dollars shall be made on a written contract, and such contract shall
be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder after such public notice and
competition as may be prescribed by ordinance and not in conflict with the
General Law of the state.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 25.)
§ 4.10 CONTRACTS FOR TOWN IMPROVEMENTS.
   Any town improvement costing more than three thousand five hundred dollars
shall be executed by contract except where such improvement is authorized by
the board of commissioners to be executed directly by a town department in
conformity with detailed plans, specifications and estimates, and provided; the
total cost is estimated not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars. All such
contracts for more than three thousand five hundred dollars shall be awarded to
the lowest responsible bidder after such public notice and competition as may
be prescribed by ordinance, provided the board of commissioners shall have the
power to reject all bids and advertise again.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 26.)
§ 4.11 CONTRACTS EXTENDING BEYOND ONE YEAR.
   No contract involving the payment of money out of the appropriations of more
than one year (other than renewals of continuing appropriations) shall be made
for a period of more than ten years; nor shall any such contract be valid
unless made or approved by ordinance. No ordinance providing for such a
contract shall be valid unless notice of the intention to pass the same was
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the town at least ten
days before its passage by the board of commissioners.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 27.)
§ 4.12 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all accounts of the town government by qualified public
accounts, selected by the board of commissioners, who have no personal interest
directly or indirectly in the financial affairs of the town government or of
any of its officers.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 28.)
ARTICLE V.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
§ 5.1 PUBLICITY OF RECORDS.
   All records and accounts of every office and department of the town shall be
open to inspection by any citizen or by any representative of the press at all
reasonable times and under reasonable regulations established by the board of
commissioners.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 29.)
§ 5.2 PERSONAL INTEREST.
   Neither the mayor nor any member of the board of commissioners nor any
officer or employee of the town shall have a financial interest, direct or
indirect, in any contract with the town or be financially interested, directly
or indirectly, in the sale to the town of any land, materials, supplies or
services, except on behalf of the town as an officer or employee. Any willful
violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office, and any
officer or employee of the town found guilty thereof shall thereby forfeit his
office or position. Any violation of this section, with the knowledge express
or implied of the person or corporation contracting with the town shall render
the contract voidable by the board of commissioners.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 30.)
§ 5.3 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the town shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, take and subscribe to the following oath or affirmation, to be filed
and kept in the office of the town clerk:
"I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution and will
obey the laws of the United States and of the State of North Carolina, that I
will, in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of
the Town of Mocksville and will faithfully discharge the duties of the office
of ____________."
(Charter 1989, Sec. 31.)
§ 5.4 CONTINUANCE OF CONTRACT.
   All contracts entered into by the town, or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws or charter
provisions existing at the time the charter takes effect may be carried to
completion in accordance with the provisions of such existing laws and charter
provisions.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 32.)
§ 5.5 SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any part of this charter shall be declared invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall not invalidate the remainder of the
charter. The provisions of this charter shall supersede all laws and ordinances
not consistent herewith, insofar as the Town of Mocksville, North Carolina, is
affected thereby.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 33.)
§ 5.6 REPEALING CLAUSE.
   The following acts of the General Assembly pertaining to the Town of
Mocksville are herewith repealed:
   (A)   Private Laws of 1844-47, Chapter 56
   (B)   Private Laws of 1835-39, Chapter 66
   (C)   Private Laws of 1895, Chapter 172
   (D)   Private Laws of 1844-47, Chapter 208
   (E)   Private Laws of 1897, Chapter 38
   (F)   Private Laws of 1913, Chapter 118
   (G)   Private Laws of 1923, Chapter 39
   (H)   Private Laws of 1866-67, Chapter 32
   (I)   Private Laws of 1923, Chapter 86
   (J)   Session Laws of 1951, Chapter 969
(Charter 1989, Sec. 34.)
§ 5.7 ENFORCEMENT AND EFFECT OF ACT.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification,
provided that the mayor and board of commissioners in office at the time this
charter takes effect shall continue until their successors are elected and
qualified.
(Charter 1989, Sec. 35.)
SUBPART B. RELATED LOCAL LAWS.
SESSION LAWS 1971
Chapter 301
   An act to extend the territorial jurisdiction of the city police of the Town
of Mocksville in Davie County to one mile from the corporate limits of the Town
of Mocksville.
   All policemen and other law enforcement officers charged with the duty of
making arrests or otherwise enforcing the criminal laws in the Town of
Mocksville in Davie County are hereby authorized and empowered to execute such
duties and powers which are now lawfully exercised within the corporate limits,
relating to the enforcement of the criminal laws, including arrests, in all
that territory embraced within one mile in all directions from the present
corporate limits of the Town of Mocksville or for such distance from any future
extension of its corporate limits.
(Charter 1989, Subpart B.)
CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1.1   How code designated and cited
   
1.2   Official copy of code
   
1.3   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1.4   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
1.5   Catch lines of sections
   
1.6   Supplementation of code
   
1.7   Amendment to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
1.8   General penalty; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
   
1.9   Penalty not exclusive
   
1.10   Reserved
   
1.11   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights and the like
   
1.12   Altering code
   
1.13   Miscellaneous ordinances not affected by code
   
1.14   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances
   
1.15   Severability of parts of code
   
1.16   Police power extended to town property
§ 1.1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters, articles and
sections shall constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, Town of
Mocksville, North Carolina" and may be so cited. The code may also be cited
"Mocksville Code" or "town code".
(1989 Code, § 1-1; 2003 Code, § 1.1)
Statutory reference:
   Admission of code in evidence, see G.S. § 160A-79
   Adoption of code of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-77
§ 1.2 OFFICIAL COPY OF CODE.
   This code, which shall at all times be kept up to date by the Town Clerk,
shall be the official code of the town.
(1989 Code, § 1-2; 2003 Code, § 1.2)
§ 1.3 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the Board of Commissioners, or the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; TOWN BOARD; BOARD; GOVERNING BODY. The Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and, if the last
day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNTY. Davie County, North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   GENDER. Words importing one gender shall include the other genders.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
persons or officers.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law shall be construed and understood according to the meaning.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath; and, in those cases, the words "swear" and "sworn"
shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
   OFFICER; OFFICIAL. Reference to an officer or official by title shall
include all duly authorized subordinates and agents, except where otherwise
provided.
   OFFICIALS; BOARDS; COMMISSIONS; AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made to
officials, boards, commissions, committees and the like, by title only, they
shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the Town of Mocksville,
North Carolina".
   OWNER. When applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety of the
whole or part of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property, as herein
defined.
   PRECEDING; FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SHALL; WILL; MAY. The words SHALL and WILL are mandatory, and the word MAY
is permissive.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE; SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the town and
shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between abutting property
lines.
   TENANT; OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TOWN; MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Mocksville, in Davie County, North Carolina.
   WRITING; WRITTEN. Printing and any other mode of representing words and
letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(1989 Code, § 1-3; 2003 Code, § 1.3)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Definitions and rules for construction of statutes, see G.S. § 12-3
   Definitions and rules of statutory construction relating to municipalities,
see G.S. § 160A-1
§ 1.4 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of ordinances adopted prior to the adoption of this code and included herein,
shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(1989 Code, § 1-4; 2003 Code, § 1.4)
§ 1.5 CATCH LINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catch lines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall be deemed or taken
neither to be titles of the sections nor as any part thereof; nor, unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catch lines, are amended or reenacted.
(1989 Code, § 1-5; 2003 Code, § 1.5)
§ 1.6 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by municipal personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the governing body.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete; the new pages
shall be so prepared that when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement. The charter may be supplemented in the same manner.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code,
which have been repealed, shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance materials into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catch lines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes
in the catch lines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter", "this article", "this division" and the like, as the case may
be, or to "sections ______to_____" (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1989 Code, § 1-6; 2003 Code, § 1.6)
§ 1.7 AMENDMENT TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   (1)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code of ordinances
which amend, repeal or in any way affect this code of ordinances, may be
numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this code and printed for
inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, article,
section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may be
excluded from the code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (2)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   When the Board desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, it is hereby
ordained that the provisions of that ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the code of ordinances and the sections of that ordinance may be renumbered
to accomplish the intention.
   (C)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter
number, as the case may be.
(1989 Code, § 1-7; 2003 Code, § 1.7)
§ 1.8 GENERAL PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically otherwise provided herein, each violation of this
code or any other town ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise provided by statute, and violations of the provisions of any discrete
town ordinance shall be punishable by fine or imprisonment as provided by law.
Each day any violation of any town ordinance shall constitute a separate
offense, except as may be specifically provided.
   (B)   Violations of any town ordinance shall constitute either a misdemeanor
or, at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
upon the issuance of a citation for the violation as hereinafter provided. The
civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the issuance of a
citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of any town ordinance, the
civil penalties shall be in the amount of $100 for each violation and each day
any single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of any
town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction. In that case, the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not
be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is
an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provisions of
any town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
general court of justice. When a violation of a provision occurs, the town may
apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable town
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the Judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
   (F)   The provisions of any town ordinance may be enforced by one, all or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this chapter.
   (G)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the
town, the violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall specify whether the
enforcement shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penalty
provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of any town
ordinance, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the Enforcement Official
of the town shall first determine if the ordinance contains a procedure for
enforcement. If the ordinance has an enforcement procedure, that procedure will
be followed. Only where a discrete ordinance does not contain an enforcement
procedure the Enforcement Official shall use the procedures contained in this
section. The Enforcement Official shall cause a warning citation to be issued
to the violator. The warning citation shall set out the nature of the
violation, the section violated, the date of the violation and shall contain an
order to immediately cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of
an infraction for which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil
proceeding, a reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation
must be abated. The warning citation shall specify that a second and subsequent
citations shall incur a civil penalty, together with costs and attorney fees.
   (I)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from
the date of the warning citation to the Board of Commissioners. Except in any
case where the ordinance is violated, which is the subject of the warning
citation, specifically grants to the Board other powers in considering appeals
and the appeal is applied for, the Board in considering appeals of warning
citations shall have power only in the manner of administrative review and
interpretation where it is alleged that the Enforcement Official has made an
error in the application of an ordinance, in the factual situation as its
relates to the application of the ordinance, or both. A violator who fails to
file an appeal within the time period described above is deemed to have
forfeited the appeal for the violation, the warning citation, the civil
citations and the civil penalties assessed for the violation.
   (J)   Where the Enforcement Official of the town determines that the period
of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement
based upon the work required or consent agreement, the Enforcement Official may
amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
   (K)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the Enforcement Official of the town and either
served directly on the violator, his or her duly designated agent or registered
agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail
service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator
as contained in the records of the county or obtained from the violator at the
time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have
been served upon the mailing of the citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear before the Town Manager, or designee, within 15 days of the
date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail. The
violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the time
the citation is paid; otherwise further citations shall be issued. If a
violation is repeated within a two-year period from the date of the initial
violation, it shall be considered to be a continuation of the initial violation
and shall be subject to additional penalties and remedies as set forth in this
section. A repeat violation is one which is identical to or reasonably similar
to a previous violation for which the town has issued a notice of violation or
civil citation.
   (L)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state's
general court of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney
fees and other relief as permitted by law.
   (M)   The existing ordinances of the town, a violation of which shall
subject the offender to civil penalties and/or criminal penalty provisions of
law, are as follows:
      (1)   Chapter III, Article 2: Parades and Demonstrations, Certain
Activities Prohibited (§
3-2.5); and Interference Prohibited (§
3-2.6);
      (1)   Chapter IV, Article 4A: Regulation of Street Solicitors, Roadway
Solicitation Prohibited (§
4A.2);
      (3)   Chapter V, Article 1: States of Emergency, Penalty for Violation (§
5-1.13);
      (4)   Chapter VI, Article 1: Water, Tampering with or Obstructing Water
Lines (§
6-1.15); Article 4: Grease Interceptors, Violations and Penalties (§
6-4.5); and Article 5: Backflow Prevention, Violations (§
6-5.13);
      (5)   Chapter VII, Article 1: Beer and Wine Consumption on Public
Property, Public Property (§
7-1.1); Article 2: Discharge of Firearms, Penalty for Violation (§ 7-2.4); and
Article 3: Damage to Municipal Property, Damage to Municipal Property (§
7-3.1); and Article 5: Noise, Penalty for Violations (§ 7-5.4);
      (6)   Chapter IX, Article 1: In General, Damaging Streets Unlawful (§
9-1.2) and Article 2: Excavations; Driveways, Penalty for Violating This
Article (§
9-2.7).
      (7)   Chapter X, Articles 2, 3, 4, and 5.
(2003 Code, § 1.8) (Amended 1-4-2022; 10-4-2022)
§ 1.9 PENALTY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this code shall
not prevent the revocation or suspension of any license, franchise or permit
issued or granted hereunder.
   (B)   In the event any violation of this code is designated as a nuisance
under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be summarily abated by the
town in addition to the imposition of a fine or imprisonment.
(2003 Code, § 1.9)
§ 1.10 RESERVED.
§ 1.11 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this code or an ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing, or any prosecution, suit or
proceeding pending or any judgment rendered, on or before the effective date of
this code.
(1989 Code, § 1-9; 2003 Code, § 1.11)
§ 1.12 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to change or amend by
additions or deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any manner
whatsoever which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented thereby.
Any person violating this section shall be punished as provided in §
1.8 hereof.
(1989 Code, § 1-10; 2003 Code, § 1.12)
§ 1.13 MISCELLANEOUS ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or an ordinance adopting this code shall affect:
      (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money by or
for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bond of the town or any
evidence of the town's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by
the town;
      (2)   Any ordinance granting any franchise or right;
      (3)   Any ordinance appropriating funds, levying or imposing taxes or
relating to an annual budget;
      (4)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the town or excluding territory
from the town;
      (5)   Any ordinance authorizing, providing for or otherwise relating to
any specific public improvement or making any assessment therefor;
      (6)   Any personnel program or retirement ordinance or ordinance
prescribing personnel compensation, not in conflict with this code;
      (7)   Any ordinance relative to zoning or to zoning map changes or zoning
or rezoning specific property, not in conflict with this code; and
      (8)   Any ordinance adopted for purposes which have been consummated.
   (B)   All of those ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
(1989 Code, § 1-11; 2003 Code, § 1.13) (Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 1.14 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance, which repealed another, shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived.
(1989 Code, § 1-12; 2003 Code, § 1.14)
§ 1.15 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that
the sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, subsection or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid
judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, subsections and sections of this code, since they
would have been enacted by the Board of Commissioners without the incorporation
in this code of any unconstitutional or invalid phrase, clause, sentence,
subsection or section.
(1989 Code, § 1-13; 2003 Code, § 1.15)
§ 1.16 POLICE POWER EXTENDED TO TOWN PROPERTY.
   The police power of the town is hereby extended to include all lands and
property owned or leased by the town or any agency of the town, and the general
ordinances of the town shall be applicable on the land and property.
(1989 Code, § 1-14; 2003 Code, § 1.16)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to extend jurisdiction, see G.S. § 160A-176
CHAPTER II: ADMINISTRATION
      Article
         
1.   IN GENERAL
         
2.   TOWN BOARD MEETINGS
         
3.   ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
         
4.   PERSONNEL
         
5.   APPOINTED BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE 1: IN GENERAL
Section
   
2-1.1   Governing body; composition
   
2-1.2   Same—duties and powers prescribed
   
2-1.3   Mayor; duties generally
   
2-1.4   Same—vote in case of tie
   
2-1.5   Mayor pro tem
   
2-1.6   Town Attorney—appointment
   
2-1.7   Same—duties
   
2-1.8   Committees—appointment; assigning duties
   
2-1.9   Same—duties generally
§ 2-1.1 GOVERNING BODY; COMPOSITION.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and five
Commissioners.
(1989 Code, § 2-1; 2003 Code, § 2-1.1)
§ 2-1.2 SAME—DUTIES AND POWERS PRESCRIBED.
   The Commissioners' duties and powers are such as set out by statute and by
the Town Charter.
(1989 Code, § 2-2; 2003 Code, § 2-1.2)
Charter reference:
   Powers of the Board, see §
1.1, §
1.2
§ 2-1.3 MAYOR; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
   (A)   Preside over all meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   Vote in case of a tie;
   (C)   Keep the persons self-informed as to the town's business;
   (D)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced; and
   (E)   Perform other and further duties as the nature of the office may
require.
(1989 Code, § 2-3; 2003 Code, § 2-1.3)
§ 2-1.4 SAME—VOTE IN CASE OF TIE.
   When there is an equal division of the Board upon any question, the Mayor
may vote to break the tie, but the Mayor shall have no vote under any other
circumstances.
(1989 Code, § 2-4; 2003 Code, § 2-1.4)
§ 2-1.5 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first meeting of the Board after each election, it shall select one
of its members to act as Mayor pro tem. The Mayor pro tem shall have no fixed
term of office. The Mayor pro tem shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in
the Mayor's absence or disability.
(1989 Code, § 2-5; 2003 Code, § 2-1.5)
Charter reference:
   Mayor and Mayor pro tem, see §
2.3
Statutory reference:
   Mayor and Mayor pro tem, see G.S. §§ 160A-69 and 160A-70
§ 2-1.6 TOWN ATTORNEY—APPOINTMENT.
   At the first regular meeting following the election and qualification of
members, the Board shall appoint a Town Attorney.
(1989 Code, § 2-6; 2003 Code, § 2-1.6)
§ 2-1.7 SAME—DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to:
   (A)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the town;
   (B)   Advise the Mayor and Board or any official of the town in regard to
matters connected with the town's business;
   (C)   Attend meetings of the Board, when requested to do so;
   (D)   Draw all legal papers connected with the town's business;
   (E)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction; and
   (F)   Perform other duties as may be assigned.
(1989 Code, § 2-7; 2003 Code, § 2-1.7)
Charter reference:
   Duties of the town attorney, see §
4.3
§ 2-1.8 COMMITTEES—APPOINTMENT; ASSIGNING DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall appoint committees and assign to them the duties as the
official deems necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the
municipal government.
(1989 Code, § 2-8; 2003 Code, § 2-1.8)
§ 2-1.9 SAME—DUTIES GENERALLY.
   Each committee shall be held responsible for its respective assignment and
shall make recommendations to the Mayor and Board as it deems advisable in
order that its department may operate with efficiency and economy.
(1989 Code, § 2-9; 2003 Code, § 2-1.9)
ARTICLE 2: TOWN BOARD MEETINGS
Section
   
2-2.1   Regular meeting day and place
   
2-2.2   Special meetings
   
2-2.3   Adjourned meetings
   
2-2.4   Order of business
   
2-2.5   Quorum
   
2-2.6   Previous questions
   
2-2.7   Motions having precedence
   
2-2.8   Motions to adjourn
   
2-2.9   Elections by ballot
   
2-2.10   Action on resignation of members
   
2-2.11   Proposal of ordinances in writing
§ 2-2.1 REGULAR MEETING DAY AND PLACE.
   The regular meeting of the Board shall be on the first Tuesday of each month
at the town hall.
(1989 Code, § 2-20; 2003 Code, § 2-2.1)
Charter reference:
   Organizational meeting, see §
2.2
§ 2-2.2 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Mayor when deemed
necessary, and shall be called upon the written request of two or more
Commissioners, of which special meeting all Commissioners shall be notified in
writing or otherwise.
(1989 Code, § 2-21; 2003 Code, § 2-2.2)
Charter reference:
   Calling special meetings, see §
2.2
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 2-2.3 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the Board
or if for any reason the Board shall fail to complete transaction of the
business before the meeting ends, the meeting may be adjourned to any date,
time or place, prior to the next regular meeting, which shall be agreed upon by
a majority of the members present.
(1989 Code, § 2-22; 2003 Code, § 2-2.3)
§ 2-2.4 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings shall be proposed by the
Town Manager and set by the adopted agenda.
   (B)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the meeting.
   (C)   No proposition shall be entertained by the presiding officer until it
has been seconded, and every proposition shall, when required by the presiding
officer or any member, be reduced to writing.
(1989 Code, § 2-23; 2003 Code, § 2-2.4)
§ 2-2.5 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board or the Mayor and at least three
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1989 Code, § 2-24; 2003 Code, § 2-2.5)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 2-2.6 PREVIOUS QUESTIONS.
   The previous question may be called at any time by a majority of the members
present. The ayes and noes may be called for by any member.
(1989 Code, § 2-25; 2003 Code, § 2-2.6)
§ 2-2.7 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received,
except as follows:
      (1)   To lay on the table;
      (2)   To postpone to a time certain;
      (3)   To postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   To refer to a committee;
      (5)   To amend;
      (6)   To strike or insert; and
      (7)   To divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order
named.
(1989 Code, § 2-26; 2003 Code, § 2-2.7)
§ 2-2.8 MOTIONS TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall also be in order and shall be decided without
debate.
(1989 Code, § 2-27; 2003 Code, § 2-2.8)
§ 2-2.9 ELECTIONS BY BALLOT.
   All elections by the Board shall be by ballot if required by any two members
present.
(1989 Code, § 2-28; 2003 Code, § 2-2.9)
§ 2-2.10 ACTION ON RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing and the
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(1989 Code, § 2-29; 2003 Code, § 2-2.10)
§ 2-2.11 PROPOSAL OF ORDINANCES IN WRITING.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance, and every new
ordinance, shall be proposed in writing, signed by the member presenting the
same, and approved as to form by the Town Attorney.
(1989 Code, § 2-30; 2003 Code, § 2-2.11)
ARTICLE 3: ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Section
   
2-3.1   Town Manager—office created; appointment; term
   
2-3.2   Same—may add; consolidate; terminate or reassign duties of
administrative offices; exception
   
2-3.3   Conflict of interests
   
2-3.4   Vacancies in administrative office
   
2-3.5   Town Clerk and Treasurer—appointment
   
2-3.6   Same—duties
   
2-3.7   Town Accountant—appointment
   
2-3.8   Same—duties
   
2-3.9   Tax Collector—appointment
   
2-3.10   Same—duties
§ 2-3.1 TOWN MANAGER—OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   There is hereby created the Office of Town Manager. The Town Manager shall
be appointed by the Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
(1989 Code, § 2-40; 2003 Code, § 2-3.1)
Charter reference:
   As to election to come under council-manager form of government, see note §
4.1
§ 2-3.2 SAME—MAY ADD; CONSOLIDATE; TERMINATE OR REASSIGN DUTIES OF
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The Town Manager may, in the official's discretion, add any
administrative office and fix the duties, consolidate any two or more
administrative offices, reassign duties and terminate any office, other than
that of Town Manager, in accordance with state law.
   (B)   All actions under this section shall be subject to appropriations
therefor.
(1989 Code, § 2-41; 2003 Code, § 2-3.2)
§ 2-3.3 CONFLICT OF INTERESTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the town directly or
indirectly to become a contractor for work done for the town, or to become
personally interested in or receive profit from any purchase of supplies for
any department of the town.
(1989 Code, § 2-42; 2003 Code, § 2-3.3)
Charter reference:
   Personal interest, see §
5.2
§ 2-3.4 VACANCIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   All vacancies occurring from any cause whatsoever in any administrative
office, other than that of Town Manager, if to be filled, shall be filled by
the Town Manager, as soon thereafter as practicable.
(1989 Code, § 2-43; 2003 Code, § 2-3.4)
§ 2-3.5 TOWN CLERK AND TREASURER—APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Clerk and Treasurer shall be appointed by the Town Manager.
(1989 Code, § 2-44; 2003 Code, § 2-3.5)
Charter reference:
   Appointment of officers and employees, see §
4.1
   Town Clerk, see §
4.2
§ 2-3.6 SAME—DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk and Treasurer to:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Board;
   (B)   Keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the Board;
   (C)   Make financial reports and statements as the Board and/or Town Manager
may require;
   (D)   Keep the books of accounts of the town, which shall show the
following:
      (1)   A detailed statement of all moneys collected for the town by all
the town officers and officials;
      (2)   All property belonging to the town and the income derived
therefrom;
      (3)   Each payment of the town's money, its purpose and to whom paid;
      (4)   A separate account for each department of the town government; and
      (5)   All other accounts as may be necessary for the financial statement
of the town.
   (E)   Keep the original of all ordinances and the corporate seal;
   (F)   Sign, with the appropriate official, all warrants or orders for the
payment of public funds;
   (G)   Cooperate with the Tax Collector, collect all real and personal taxes
and all license and privilege taxes that may be assessed, and file a statement
of the collections with the Board;
   (H)   Keep a map of the cemetery, sell lots therein and keep a record of
same;
   (I)   Keep a record of all officers and employees who are receiving
compensation; who are under bond, the amount and surety on same; and all who
are required to take oath before being admitted to office; and shall also show
whether the compensation, bond or oath is provided by state law, charter or
ordinance; if by latter, the number of the ordinance and date of same;
   (J)   Receive and keep an account of all moneys which the officer shall
receive in behalf of the town; and
   (K)   Perform other duties as may be assigned.
(1989 Code, § 2-45; 2003 Code, § 2-3.6)
Cross-reference:
   As to signing of checks and drafts, see §
4-1.3
§ 2-3.7 TOWN ACCOUNTANT—APPOINTMENT.
   A Town Accountant shall be appointed by the Town Manager.
(1989 Code, § 2-46; 2003 Code, § 2-3.7)
§ 2-3.8 SAME—DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Accountant to:
   (A)   Inspect and audit the books and records of all town departments as
often as may be required by the Mayor and the Board;
   (B)   Make an annual financial report of all departments and officers of the
town government; and
   (C)   Perform other duties as may be assigned.
(1989 Code, § 2-47; 2003 Code, § 2-3.8)
Charter reference:
   Duties of Town Accountant, see §
4.4
§ 2-3.9 TAX COLLECTOR—APPOINTMENT.
   A Town Tax Collector shall be appointed by the Town Manager or the town may
contract with the county to have tax collection services rendered by the County
Tax Collector.
(1989 Code, § 2-48; 2003 Code, § 2-3.9)
§ 2-3.10 SAME—DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to:
   (A)   Collect all personal and real property taxes in cooperation with the
Town Clerk;
   (B)   Collect all license taxes, street assessments and dog taxes in
cooperation with the Town Clerk;
   (C)   Cooperate with the Police Department;
   (D)   Pay over to the Town Treasurer all moneys collected;
   (E)   File a detailed report each month with the Board, showing the amount
of money, and from what source, collected; and
   (F)   Perform all duties assigned.
(1989 Code, § 2-49; 2003 Code, § 2-3.10)
Charter reference:
   Duties of Town Tax Collector, see §
4.5
ARTICLE 4: PERSONNEL
Section
   
2-4.1   Employment of personnel; terms, fringe benefits
Charter reference:
   Administrative service, see §
4.1
Statutory reference:
   Authority as to police, see G.S. § 160A-281
   Authority as to retirement, see G.S. § 160A-163
   Auxiliary police, see G.S. § 160A-282
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of police, see G.S. § 160A-286
   Insurance benefit, see G.S. § 160A-162(b)
   Local government employee retirement system, see G.S. §§ 128-21 et seq.
   Personnel rules, see G.S. § 160A-164
   Powers and duties of police officers, see G.S. § 160A-285
§ 2-4.1 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL; TERMS, FRINGE BENEFITS.
   Town personnel shall be employed by the Town Manager, within the
appropriations for that purpose; the terms of the positions shall be at the
will of the Town Manager. Fringe benefits shall be as specified from time to
time by the Town Manager, subject to the approval of the Board.
(1989 Code, § 14-1; 2003 Code, § 2-4.1)
ARTICLE 5: APPOINTED BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
2-5.1   Planning Board—created
   
2-5.2   Same—membership and vacancies
   
2-5.3   Same—organization; rules; meetings; records
   
2-5.4   Same—powers and duties
   
2-5.5   Same—annual report and budget request
   
2-5.6   Same—advisory council and special committees
   
2-5.7   Board of Adjustment
   
2-5.8   Tree Board
   
2-5.9   Tourism Development Authority
Cross-reference:
   Planning Board, see §
2-5.1
§ 2-5.1 PLANNING BOARD—CREATED.
   The Town Planning Board is hereby created in accordance with the provisions
of this article.
(1989 Code, § 15-31; 2003 Code, § 2-5.1)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning generally; duties of Planning Board relative to zoning, see §
8-3.9.2(A)
§ 2-5.2 SAME—MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES.
   The Planning Board shall consist of seven members, five members shall be
citizens and residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Town Board,
and two members shall be citizens and residents of the extraterritorial area
recorded in the Registry of Deeds of the county; the members shall be appointed
by the County Board of Commissioners pursuant to G.S. § 160D-762. All members
appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners shall begin new terms in the 2022/
23 fiscal year after July 1, 2022 as follows: i) One member shall be appointed
to a new term of 18 months to begin on July 1, 2022; ii) one member shall be
appointed to a new term of one year to begin on January 1, 2023; iii) two
members shall be appointed to a new term of three years beginning January 1,
2023; two of the initial members shall be appointed for a term of one year, two
for two years and three for three years. The terms of both members appointed by
the Board of Commissioners shall expire on December 31, 2022. Thereafter the
term of one member shall expire on December 31, 2024, and one member shall
expire on December 31, 2025. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of
three years. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term. Members may
be removed for cause by the Town Board.
(1989 Code, § 15-32; 2003 Code, § 2-5.2) (Amended 7-5-2022)
§ 2-5.3 SAME—ORGANIZATION; RULES; MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall meet and
elect a chair and create and fill offices as it may determine. The term of the
chair and other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, which shall be a public record.
   (C)   The Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
   (D)   There shall be a quorum of members for the purpose of taking any
official action.
(1989 Code, § 15-33; 2003 Code, § 2-5.3)
§ 2-5.4 SAME—POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general, to:
      (1)   Acquire and maintain in current form basic information and material
as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present conditions and
forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   Identify needs and problems growing out of those needs;
      (3)   Determine objectives to be sought in development of the area;
      (4)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in development
of the area;
      (5)   Prepare and, from time to time, amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical, social and economic development of the
area;
      (6)   Prepare and recommend to the Town Board ordinances promoting
orderly development along lines indicated in the comprehensive plan and advise
it concerning proposed amendments of the ordinances;
      (7)   Determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area and ordinances adopted in furtherance of the plan;
      (8)   Keep the Town Board and the general public informed and advised as
to these matters; and
      (9)   Perform any other duties that may lawfully be assigned to it.
   (B)   Basic studies. As background for its comprehensive plan and any
ordinances it may prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial
photographs of physical features of the area; statistics on past trends and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the area and land use; and other information as is important or likely
to be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of development to
be expected in the area and its various parts. In addition, the Planning Board
may make, cause to be made or obtain special studies on the location, the
condition, and the adequacy of specific facilities, which may include, but are
not limited to, studies of housing; commercial and industrial facilities;
parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities; public and private
utilities; and traffic, transportation and parking facilities. All town
officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning Board available records
or information as it may require in its work. The Board or its agents may, in
the performance of its official duties, enter upon lands and make examinations
or surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
   (C)   Comprehensive plan. The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying
maps, plats, charts and descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning
Board's recommendations to the Town Board for the development of the territory,
including, among other things, the general location, character and extent of
streets, bridges, boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation
fields and other public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately
owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication,
power and other purposes; the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing,
vacating, abandonment, change of use or extension of any of the foregoing ways,
building, grounds, open spaces, property, utilities or terminals; and the most
desirable pattern of land use within the area, including areas for farming and
forestry, for manufacturing and industrial uses, for commercial uses, for
recreational uses, for open spaces and for mixed uses. The plan and any
ordinances or other measures to effectuate it shall be made with the general
purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious
development of the town and its environs that will, in accordance with present
and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals and the general welfare,
as well as efficiency and economy in the process of development; including
among other things, adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety
from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the
promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of population, the
promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure
of public funds and the adequate provision of public utilities, services and
other public requirements.
   (D)   Subdivision regulations.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Town Board for
its consideration and possible adoption regulations controlling the subdivision
of land in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2, as
amended. It shall review, from time to time, the effectiveness of the
regulations and may make proposals to the Town Board for amendment or other
improvements of those regulations and their enforcement.
      (2)   In accordance with the provisions of any regulations that are
adopted, the Planning Board may review subdivision plats that are submitted
and:
         (a)   Make recommendations to the Town Board concerning the plats; or
         (b)   Approve, approve subject to conditions or deny approval for the
plat.
   (E)   Zoning ordinance. The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the
Town Board for its consideration and possible adoption a zoning ordinance in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3, as amended.
The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for amendment of
the zoning ordinance, based upon its studies and comprehensive plan. In
addition, it shall review and make recommendations to the Town Board concerning
all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance.
   (F)   Public facilities. The Planning Board shall make recommendations
concerning public facility issues referred to it by the Town Board.
   (G)   Historic Preservation Commission. The Planning Board may exercise the
functions of a Historic Preservation Commission, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-
400.7.
   (H)   Urban redevelopment. The Planning Board may make findings and
recommendations concerning urban redevelopment projects in the area, pursuant
to the Urban Redevelopment Law found in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 22.
   (I)   Miscellaneous powers and duties.
      (1)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings as may be required
to gather information for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of the
comprehensive plan. Before adopting any plan, it shall hold at least one public
hearing thereon.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have the power to promote public interest
in and an understanding of its recommendations and, to that end, it may publish
and distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ other means of
publicity and education as it may elect.
      (3)   Members of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Town
Board, may attend planning conferences, meetings of planning associations or
hearings on pending planning legislation, and the Planning Board may, by formal
and affirmative vote, authorize payment within the Board's budget of the
reasonable traveling expenses incident to the attendance.
(1989 Code, § 15-34; 2003 Code, § 2-5.4)
§ 2-5.5 SAME—ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Town Board may request, at any time during the fiscal year, that the
Planning Board submit in writing to the Town Board a report of its activities,
an analysis of its expenditures to date for the current fiscal year and its
requested budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
(1989 Code, § 15-35; 2003 Code, § 2-5.5)
§ 2-5.6 SAME—ADVISORY COUNCIL AND SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Planning Board may establish an unofficial advisory council and may
cooperate with the council to the end that its investigations and plans may
receive full consideration, but the Board may not delegate to the advisory
council any of its official powers and duties.
(1989 Code, § 15-36; 2003 Code, § 2-5.6)
§ 2-5.7 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   There shall be a Board of Adjustment for the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction the membership, procedures, powers and duties of which are
provided for in §
8-3.9.2(B) of this code of ordinances.
(2003 Code, § 2-5.7)
§ 2-5.8 TREE BOARD.
   There shall be a Tree Board for the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction the membership, procedures, powers and duties of which are
provided for in §
9-3.3 of this code of ordinances.
(2003 Code, § 2-5.8)
§ 2-5.9 TOURISM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Board, for the purpose of advertising and
promoting tourism in the town, established the Town Tourism Development
Authority (MTDA) on 12-7-2010.
   (B)   Office, books and records.
      (1)   Principal office; mailing address.
         (a)    The principal office of the MTDA shall be:
            Town of Mocksville
            171 S. Clement St.
            Mocksville, NC 27028
         (b)   Its mailing address shall be:
            Mocksville Tourism Development Authority
            c/o Town Finance Officer
            171 S. Clement St.
            Mocksville, NC 27028
      (2)   Books and records. Except as may otherwise be provided by
resolution of the MTDA, or as may be required by the business of the MTDA, all
records of the MTDA shall be kept at the principal office of the MTDA.
Financial records will be kept in the office of the Town Finance Officer.
   (C)   Tourism Development Authority.
      (1)   Appointment of membership. The MTDA Board shall consist of six
members appointed by the Town Board. The initial terms of office shall be as
follows: three members appointed for two years; three members appointed for one
year. The Town Board shall designate the term of each initial Board member.
      (2)   Tenure of membership.
         (a)   MTDA Board members shall serve appointed terms and may be
reappointed.
         (b)   MTDA Board members desiring to resign should submit their
resignation in writing to the Town Board.
         (c)   MTDA Board membership is not transferable or assignable.
      (3)   Qualifications of Board membership.
         (a)   At least one-third of the MTDA Board members must be individuals
who are affiliated with businesses that collect the occupancy tax levied by the
town.
         (b)   At least one-half of the MTDA Board members must be individuals
who are then currently active in the promotion of travel and tourism in the
town.
         (c)   The remaining MTDA Board member shall be the Town Board's
choice.
      (4)   Vacancies of Board membership. The Town Board may fill vacancies
occurring in the MTDA Board for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (5)   Officers of the Board. The Town Board shall appoint a Chairperson
and the MTDA Board may choose a Vice-Chairperson. The Finance Officer of the
town shall serve ex officio as Finance Director for the MTDA Board and may vote
in the event of a tie. The Chairperson shall be the executive officer of the
MTDA, calling and presiding over all meetings, developing the agenda and
signing all bonds, contracts and other instruments to be executed on behalf of
the MTDA.
      (6)   Compensation of Board members. No compensation shall be paid for
services to members of the MTDA Board.
   (D)   Rules and conduct.
      (1)   Faithful attendance at all meetings of the MTDA and conscientious
performance of the duties required of Board members of the MTDA shall be
considered a prerequisite of continuing membership on the MTDA Board. If a
Board member misses more than two consecutive meetings, he or she may be
replaced at the recommendation of the MTDA and at the discretion of the Town
Board.
      (2)   No Board member shall take part in the consideration and
determination of any matter in which he or she has a direct personal or
financial interest.
      (3)   Each Board member shall maintain the confidential nature of
confidential material, which Board members may become privy to as a Board
member of the MTDA.
      (4)   No Board member shall directly or indirectly solicit any gift, or
accept or receive any gift, whether in the form of money, services, loan,
travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under
circumstances in which a reasonable person would believe that the gift was
intended to influence him or her in the performance of his or her duties, or
was intended as a reward for any official action on his or her part.
      (5)   The MTDA may suspend or expel any of its appointed Board members
for cause and may terminate the membership of any of its appointed Board
members by majority vote of its members and the approval of the Town Board.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The MTDA shall study the tourism industry of the
town and the most effective means of enhancing and promoting that industry and
recommend any plans, actions and programs, which will, in accordance with the
powers granted herein, serve to enhance and improve the tourism industry of the
town. To this end, the Town Board confers upon the MTDA the following powers
and duties:
      (1)   To promote travel, tourism and corporate travel in the town,
sponsor tourist-related events and activities in the district and finance
tourist related capital projects in the town;
      (2)   To contract with and/or hire an individual, agency or organization
to advertise or market an area or activity, publish and distribute pamphlets
and other materials, conduct market research and engage in or sponsor similar
promotional activities that attract tourists or business travel to the area;
      (3)   To make recommendations to the Town Board for the efficient and
effective enforcement of the town's room occupancy tax;
      (4)   To conduct market research as it deems necessary in order to devise
and develop the goals and plans necessary to create an effective marketing plan
to promote the travel and tourism industry in the town;
      (5)   To make tourism-related expenditures that, in the judgment of the
MTDA, are designed to increase the use of lodging facilities, recreational
facilities and business establishments in the town or to attract tourists or
business travelers to the town;
      (6)   To recommend tourism- and resident-related capital expenditures
including expenditures required to improve and increase the recreational
facilities located in the town and maintain the attractiveness of the town and
its green areas;
      (7)   To select appropriate goals for the enhancement and development of
the tourism industry in the town;
      (8)   To seek, evaluate and choose proposals from appropriate
organizations which will address the established and approved goals of the
MTDA;
      (9)   To evaluate the effective and efficient implementation of the
officially adopted plans of the MTDA and of the Town Board;
      (10)   To submit reports quarterly and at the close of the fiscal year,
to the Town Board regarding its receipts and expenditures for the preceding
quarter and for the year in the detail as the Town Board may require; and
      (11)   To make recommendations to the Town Board regarding persons
nominated to serve new terms or to fill vacant terms on the MTDA.
   (F)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular and special meetings. The MTDA shall meet at least
quarterly. The Chairperson may call special meetings of the MTDA Board at any
time. At least 96 hours' written notice of the time and place of special
meetings shall be given by the Secretary or by the Chairperson to each Board
member of the MTDA. All MTDA meetings, with the exception of closed sessions,
are to be open to the public and held tn accordance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C
commonly referred to as the Open Meetings Law. The Secretary of the MTDA shall
keep a record of its members' attendance and the minutes of the MTDA's
meetings.
      (2)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Board members
of the MTDA.
      (3)   Voting. All actions taken by the MTDA are done so by majority vote
of the members of the MTDA present and voting at a regular or special meeting
of the Board. Each member of the MTDA is entitled to one vote. There shall be
no voting by proxy. All members must vote on an issue properly before the MTDA
unless a member has a direct personal or financial interest in the matter
before the MTDA.
   (G)   Fiscal year end budget.
      (1)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year for the MTDA shall begin July I and
end June 30. The MTDA shall develop and approve a budget for each fiscal year
in accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
      (2)   Expenditures. The MTDA shall use at least two-thirds of the funds
remitted to it each year by the Town Board to promote travel and tourism in the
town and shall use the remainder of the funds remitted to it for tourism-
related expenditures.
   (H)   Amendments. Except as otherwise provided by law, these bylaws, or any
part thereof, may be amended, added to, altered or repealed at the pleasure of
and by a majority affirmative vote of the members of the MTDA and with the
approval of the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
CHAPTER III: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Article
         
1.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
         
2.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
         
3.   CEMETERIES
         
4.   PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE 1: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
General Provisions
   
3-1.1   Keeping of horses and mules and other livestock
   
3-1.2   Definitions
   
3-1.3   Dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog declaration
   
3-1.4   Animals creating a public nuisance
   
3-1.5   Impoundment of animals
   
3-1.6   Fees
   
3-1.7   Restraint of animals
Exotic or Wild Animals
   
3-1.10   Intent
   
3-1.11   Definitions
   
3-1.12   Possession and/or harboring prohibited
   
3-1.13   Impoundment and disposition of impounded creatures
   
3-1.14   Preexisting ownership or possession of exotic or wild animals
   
3-1.15   Permit/registration process
   
3-1.16   Exemptions
   
3-1.17   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Creation of noise, see §
7-5.2(D)
   Vicious animals in parades, see §
3-2.5(B)
Statutory reference:
   Animal protection, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq.
   Authority to prohibit cruelty, see G.S. § 160A-182
   Authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   Overworking and the like, see G.S. § 14-360
§ 3-1.1 KEEPING OF HORSES AND MULES AND OTHER LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   No horse, mule, pony, jack, jenny, cow, swine, goat, sheep, fowl or
other livestock may be kept, maintained or stabled within the municipality for
a period longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   The prohibition in subsection (A) shall not apply when the animal is
kept in a pasture, lot or enclosure of at least one acre in size for each
animal with written permission of abutting landowners within 100 feet of the
lot or pasture; provided that, no stable for the animal will be within 200 feet
of any house of human habitation; and, provided further that, the owner of any
animal will collect all manure from the lot or pasture at least once a week and
deposit the same in an approved compost pile or as otherwise authorized by law.
(1989 Code, § 3-1; 2003 Code, § 3-1.1)
§ 3-1.2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal is deemed to be at large when it is off its owner's
property and not under the restraint of a competent person.
   ATTACK. An animal, not adequately restrained on or off its owner's property,
that approaches a person or animal in a vicious, terrorizing, or threatening
manner without the animal having been molested, cruelly beaten, tortured, or
otherwise harmed.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal whose aggressive behavior constitutes a
foreseeable risk of injuring a human or animal or damaging personal or real
property. Such behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal biting or
attempting to attack a human or another animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, when unprovoked:
      (1)   Inflicts severe injury on a human being on public or private
property;
      (2)   Kills a domestic animal or livestock while off the owner's
property; or
      (3)   Has been previously declared potentially dangerous and the owner
having received notice of such declaration and the dog subsequently
aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of humans or domestic
animals or livestock.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC MAMMAL. Any member of the Canidae, Felidae, or
Ursidae families; including hybrids thereof, which, due to their inherent
nature, may be considered dangerous to humans, and further defined as follows:
      (1)   Canidae include any member of the dog (canid) family not
customarily domesticated by humans, and any hybrids of such Canidae, including
but not limited to wolf hybrids which are a cross between a wolf and a domestic
dog, but not including domestic dogs (Canis familiaris).
      (2)   Felidae include any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by humans, and any hybrids of such Felidae,
but not including domestic cats (Felis catus).
      (3)   Ursidae include any member of the bear family, and hybrids of such
Ursidae.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS REPTILE. Any member of the class Reptilia which:
      (1)   Is venomous; a venomous reptile shall include all members of the
families Atractaspidae (burrowing asps), Crotalid (pit vipers), Lapidate
(cobras, coral snakes, and their allies), Helodermatid (Gila monsters and
Mexican beaded lizards), Hydrophilidae (sea snakes), Viperidae (vipers), and as
well as any "rear fanged" snakes of the family Colubridae that are known to be
dangerous to humans, including, but not limited to, Diaphanids (boomslangs),
Rhabdophis spp. (keelbacks), and Thebtomis Kirtland I (twig snakes); or
      (2)   Is a member of the order Crocodilia (alligators, caimans, and
crocodiles).
   LEASH. A cord, thong, or chain not more than nine feet in length by which an
animal is physically controlled by the person accompanying it.
   MICROCHIP IMPLANT. A passive electronic device that is injected into an
animal by means of a pre-packaged sterilized implanting device for the purposes
of identification and/or recovery of the animal.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
      (1)   Inflicts bites on a human, domestic animal or livestock without
provocation either on public or private property;
      (2)   Without provocation, chases or approaches a person upon private
property of another, a street, sidewalk, or any public grounds in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack;
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, or to cause injury or otherwise to threaten the safety of humans or
domestic animals;
      (4)   Is located off a leash within 100 feet of any facility which is
regularly frequented by minor children, including, but not limited to schools,
day cares, parks, recreational fields and/or church playgrounds.
   PROOF OF OWNERSHIP. Documentation in support of a property right in an
animal that includes, but is not limited to, veterinary records, rabies
vaccination certificates, licenses, photographs, bills of sale, breed
registries, written transfers of ownership, and written third-party
verifications.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG. While on the owner's property, a
dangerous dog shall be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
designed to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure shall have
secure sides and a secure top, and shall also provide protection from the
elements for the dog.
   PROVOCATION. Includes, but is not limited to situations where threat,
injury, or damage is sustained by a person who, at the time, was committing a
willful trespass or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the
dog, or was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have tormented, abused, or assaulted the dog or
was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   PROVOKE. Any action designed to goad, inflame, instigate or stimulate an
aggressive response on the part of an animal, but not including any actions on
the part of an individual that pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense
against a dangerous animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An animal or group of animals may be considered to be a
public nuisance if, by way of example and not of limitation, it:
      (1)    Damages, soils, or defiles community or neighborhood private
property or public property;
      (2)   Interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of a person's
property;
      (3)   Turns over garbage containers or damages flower or vegetable
gardens;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary or offensive conditions; or
      (5)   Impedes the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists, or motorists.
   STRAY. Any animal which is running at large; off its owner's property;
appears to be lost, unwanted, or abandoned; or whose owner is unknown or not
readily available.
   VICIOUS. Showing a propensity without sufficient provocation to do any act
which endangers the safety of persons, animals or property.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.3 DANGEROUS DOG OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG DECLARATION.
   (A)   Declaration.
      (1)   Davie County Animal Control may find and declare a dog potentially
dangerous or dangerous if it has probable cause to believe that the dog falls
within the definitions set forth in this subchapter. The finding must be based
upon:
         (a)   The written complaint of a citizen who is willing to testify
that the dog has acted in a manner which causes it to fall within the
applicable definition in §
3-1.2;
         (b)   Dog bite reports filed with the Animal Control Department as
required by the ordinance codified in this chapter or state law;
         (c)   Actions of the dog witnessed by any animal control officer or
law enforcement officer;
         (d)   The declaration by another animal control authority pursuant to
G.S. § 67-4.1; or
         (e)   Other credible evidence.
      (2)   The declaration of potentially dangerous or dangerous dog shall be
in writing and shall be served on the owner in person, or by first-class or
certified mail, to the owner's last known address. For purposes of this
section, the notice to the owner will be deemed received the third day after
the notice is placed in the mail.
      (3)   The declaration shall state:
         (a)   A description of the dog;
         (b)   The name and address of the owner of the dog, if known;
         (c)   The whereabouts of the dog if it is not in the custody of the
owner;
         (d)   The facts upon which the declaration is based;
         (e)   The restrictions placed on the dog as a result of the
declaration;
         (f)   The penalties for violation of the restrictions, including the
possibility of destruction of the dog; and imprisonment or fining of the owner.
      (4)   If the owner of the dog wishes to appeal the declaration of
potentially dangerous or dangerous dog the owner may, within ten working days
of receipt of the declaration, request a hearing by submitting a written appeal
to the Davie County Manager's office. The county shall appoint a body to hear
all such appeals, which body shall consist of the following individuals: the
Davie County Manager, the Davie County Health Director, and the Davie County
Department of Social Services Director. A hearing by this body shall be
convened and held within 30 days of any notice of appeal.
      (5)   If the hearing body finds that there is insufficient evidence to
support the declaration, it shall be rescinded, and the restrictions imposed
thereby annulled.
      (6)   If the hearing body finds sufficient evidence to support the
declaration, it will affirm the declaration. The ruling of the hearing body
shall be final, subject only to such appeal or certiorari proceeding as is
provided by law to the Superior Court of Davie County, which appeal or
certiorari proceeding must be filed within ten days of the date of the final
ruling of the hearing body.
      (7)   Following service of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
declaration, and pending any appeal under this section, the owner of a
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog must keep Davie County Animal
Control apprised or his or her current address and contact information and must
follow all applicable state law and local ordinances pertaining to the dog.
      (8)   Following service of a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog
declaration, and pending appeals under this section, the Animal Control
Department may, if circumstances require, impound the dog at the owner's
expense, pursuant to the provisions of §
3-1.5 of this chapter, impoundment. A dog impounded under these circumstances
may be redeemed by complying with the redemption requirements in division (B)
(1).
   (B)   Dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs; additional
requirements.
      (1)   The owner of a dog declared dangerous by the Animal Control
Department shall present to the Animal Control Department sufficient evidence
of:
         (a)   A proper enclosure to confine a dangerous dog and the posting of
the premises with a clearly visible warning sign that there is a dangerous dog
on the property. In addition, the owner shall conspicuously display a sign with
a warning symbol that informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog; and
         (b)   A policy of liability insurance in the amount of at least
$100,000 at the owner's or keeper's expense for the benefit of any person who
suffers damages, injury, or death caused by a dangerous dog for as long as the
dog remains in the county. The Davie County Animal Control shall have the
authority to require the owner or keeper to provide written proof of the
liability insurance and to require the owner or keeper to have the insurer
notify the department of any change in the insurance coverage or policy. The
dog's owner or keeper shall have the duty to immediately notify the Animal
Control Department if the dog escapes. The Department shall have the authority
to seize and impound the dog if the owner or keeper fails to comply with any
provision of this section.
         (c)   A photograph, acceptable to the Animal Control Department, of
the dog registered as dangerous.
         (d)   A micro-chip implant and micro-chip registration number.
         (e)   Proof of sterilization of the dog within 60 days of the
declaration of the dog as dangerous.
         (f)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall not permit the dog to be
outside the proper enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and restrained by a
substantial chain or leash not more than nine feet in length and under physical
restraint of a responsible person, at least 16 years of age. The muzzle shall
be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal.
      (2)   Any potentially dangerous dog may be immediately confiscated is it
meets the definition set forth in division (4) of the definition of a
potentially dangerous dog.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the this Code, and in addition to
the penalties prescribed therein, any dangerous dog may be immediately
confiscated if:
         (a)   The dog is not validly registered under division (B)(1) above;
         (b)   The owner does not secure and maintain the liability insurance
coverage required under division (B)(1)(b) above;
         (c)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
         (d)   The dog is outside of the dwelling of the owner, or outside of
the property enclosure and not under physical restraint of a responsible
person.
      (2)   Any potentially dangerous dog which is located off a leash within
100 feet of any facility which is regularly frequented by minor children,
including, but not limited to schools, daycares, parks, recreational fields
and/or church playgrounds may also be immediately confiscated.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties established in division (C)(4) below,
the owner of any dog confiscated under division (C)(1) above may recover such
dog from the Animal Control Department upon the payment of a civil fine which
shall be in the amount established by the County Commissioners plus the fees
and requirements established within division (B)(1) above and any and all fees
associated with any impoundment of the dog at the current rates at the time;
provided, however, that in the event the owner has not picked up the dangerous
dog within five days of being notified by the Animal Control Department that
such dog is under the control of such Department, the dog shall be destroyed in
an expeditious and humane manner. For a second offense of this division (C),
the civil fine shall be the amount established by the County Commissioners. For
any subsequent offense of this division (C), the civil fine shall be the amount
established by the County Commissioners.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter is a Class 3
misdemeanor.
      (5)   State law reference: G.S. § 67-4.3, Penalty for attacks by
dangerous dogs. The owner of a dangerous dog that attacks a person and causes
physical injuries requiring medical treatment in excess of $100 shall be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   Exceptions. The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer's official duties;
      (2)    A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or
predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner,
and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (E)   State law.
      (1)   Nothing in this section or this chapter shall be construed to
prevent an animal control officer or any other person from pursuing remedies
under G.S. Chapter 67, Art. 1A.
      (2)   The Davie County Animal Control director or his designee is
designated as the person responsible for making the declaration required under
G.S. § 67-4.1(c). In making such declarations, the Director or his or her
designee shall follow the procedure outlined herein.
      (3)   The animal owner has a right to appeal the declaration to the
county appellate officer by giving written notice of appeal to the Office of
the County Manager within ten days of the service of the declaration on said
owner.
      (4)   The County Health Director or designee, is designated as the
appellate hearing officer to hear appeals of declarations made pursuant to G.S.
§ 67-4.1(c) as well as the provisions of the Davie County dangerous and
potentially dangerous dog, §
3-1.2. Such appeal hearings shall be held within 30 days of the written notice
of appeal filed with the Office of the County Manager by the animal owner.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.4 ANIMALS CREATING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Davie County Animal Services Director has the authority to
instruct an animal owner to confine an animal if it has been damaging or
soiling the property of others, turning over garbage, impeding the safety of
pedestrians, bicyclists or motorists, or creating a nuisance in any other way.
   (B)   Any animal that has been deemed a public nuisance by Davie County
Animal Services shall be microchipped by Animal Services or a veterinarian
within 30 days of the issuance of the public nuisance order. The expense of
said procedure shall be borne by the animal owner.
   (C)   Any owner of an animal deemed a public nuisance by Animal Services can
reclaim by the payment of a redemption fee established by the County
Commissioners and the daily fees associated with the upkeep of the animal while
in Animal Services care.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.5 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Generally. Any animal which appears to be lost, strayed or abandoned,
or which is found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag,
as required by state law or this chapter, or which is found running at large or
not under restraint in violation of this chapter, may be impounded by Davie
County Animal Control and confined in the County Animal Control Shelter in a
humane manner, impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner
thereof from any penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice to owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal
Control Department shall make reasonable effort to notify the animal's owner
and inform such owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
This section shall not apply to owner-surrendered, abandoned, or quarantined
animals or to livestock or wildlife.
   (C)   Redemption by owner generally.
      (1)   Redemption. The owner of an animal impounded under this subchapter
may redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within three days of
impoundment in the county or five days of impoundment within the corporate
limits of the city by complying with all applicable provisions of this chapter
and by paying all fees and penalties due. Fee rates shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk to the Board of County
Commissioners and at the County Animal Shelter. If an animal has been impounded
for failure to wear a current rabies vaccination tag, the animal must be
vaccinated before being released to the owner. In addition, any dog which has
been impounded shall have a micro-chip installed at the owner's expense before
the dog is released to the owner and pay all cost associated with such micro-
chipping.
      (2)   Failure to reclaim an animal shall not relieve the animal's owner
from paying all applicable fees and penalties.
   (D)   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal generally.
      (1)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the
period prescribed in division (C)(1) above, it may be destroyed in a humane
manner or offered for adoption or acquisition by a new adult owner who agrees
to comply with this chapter; provided, however, that any such prospective new
owner shall not include an animal dealer who acquires animals for resale. Such
animal may be adopted by a prospective new owner who pays the required fee and
agrees to comply with all local ordinances and regulations and state law
regarding animals. The county will not purposefully release for adoption any
animal that has previously bitten a person, is aggressive or is potentially
dangerous. However, the Animal Control Department Director shall have the
authority to waive the restriction on placement of animals that have bitten if
the Director determines that the bite was inconsequential and not related to an
act of aggression.
      (2)   No animal owner may be permitted to adopt his or her own animal
under the provisions of this section, but he or she must comply with the
provisions of division (C)(1) above in order to reclaim an animal that has been
impounded pursuant to state law or this chapter.
      (3)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
abandoned or unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the
County Animal Shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked
pursuant to state law, except by special authorization of the public health
officials and the Animal Control Department Director.
   (E)   Procedure for redemption or adoption of unvaccinated animal.
      (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, each
dog and cat shall be vaccinated against rabies at the owner's, redeemer's or
adopter's expense before being released from the County Animal Shelter by
either redemption or adoption. For puppies and kittens under the age of three
months, the Animal Control Department shall provide the redeemer or adopter
with a voucher for each animal to obtain a rabies vaccination from Davie County
Animal Control and the redeemer/adopter shall promptly have the animal
vaccinated.
      (2)   The adoption/medical agreement will be completed at the time of
adoption. If the adopter fails to comply with the agreement, an Animal Control
Officer may be dispatched to retrieve the dog or cat if corrective action has
not been taken by the animal's owner.
      (3)   At the adopter's expense, adopted animals shall have a micro-chip
implanted in the animal, shall be spayed or neutered and inoculated prior to
being released for adoption by the Animal Control Department.
   (F)   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this subchapter, impounded animals which appear to be
suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall be dealt with
in accordance with G.S. § 130A-197.
   (G)   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this subchapter, any impounded animal which has no identification
and which is seriously wounded or diseased (and not a rabies suspect) or
continues to act in a feral manner after a reasonable observation period, as
determined by a licensed veterinarian, or the Animal Control Department, shall
be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal has identification,
the Animal Control Department shall attempt to notify the owner before
disposing of such animal, but if the owner cannot be reached readily, and the
animal is suffering, the Animal Control Department may, in its discretion,
destroy the animal immediately in a humane manner. Such cases shall be
documented on the animal custody record. Davie County Animal Control has the
authority to humanely destroy severely injured livestock under the same
circumstances upon the owner's request or when the owner is unknown.
   (H)   Immediate placement for adoption or destruction of animal surrendered
by owner. An animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Control Department
may be immediately placed for adoption or humanely destroyed in the discretion
of the Animal Control Department Director or the Director's designee without
compliance with division (D) above when the owner:
      (1)   Affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is in fact the
legal owner of said animal;
      (2)   Agrees to hold the county and its officials and employees harmless
from any liability, claims, or damages that may be sustained by reason of the
adoption or destruction of said animal; and
      (3)   Transfers ownership of said animal to the Animal Control
Department.
   (I)   Security for costs.
      (1)   Disposition. Excluding animals under quarantine pursuant to the
provisions of state law, any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or state law may be humanely disposed of by adoption or euthanasia at
the discretion of Davie County Animal Control after three days following the
date on which the animal was seized unless the animal's owner provides a
security bond or cash in accordance with division (I)(2) below.
      (2)   Bond. Any person claiming an ownership interest in any animal
confined pursuant to this chapter may prevent the disposition of the animal
after the three-day period set forth in division (D)(1) above by posting a
security bond or cash with the Animal Control Department prior to the animal
being adopted or euthanized in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment of all
of the reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and providing for
the animal, including the estimated cost of medical care, for at least 30 days;
however, such security shall not prevent the Animal Control Department from
disposing of the animal at the end of the 30-day period covered by the posted
bond/cash, unless the person claiming an ownership interest in the animal posts
an additional security bond or cash with the Animal Control Department to
secure payment of the animal's reasonable expenses for an additional 30 days,
and does so prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period. The amount of
the bond/cash shall be determined by Davie County Animal Control based on the
current rate for board and on the condition of the animal after examination by
an animal control officer. Failure to timely post the security shall result in
the animal being immediately forfeited to the Animal Control Department for
disposition in accordance with division (D)(1) above.
      (3)   Notice. Excluding owner-surrendered animals, if the Animal Control
takes custody of an animal pursuant to this chapter, the Department shall give
notice of this section by posting a copy of it at the location where the animal
was seized or by delivering it to a person residing on the property of the
owner within 24 hours of the time the animal was seized.
      (4)   Security forfeited upon failure to pay costs. If the fees, costs,
and penalties owed for the animal are not paid in full by the end of each
security period, the security already posted shall be forfeited to the county
on said date and used to pay the remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties
owing for the animal. The animal's owner shall remain responsible for all
remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties. Any security bond/cash remaining
after the payment of all fees, costs, and penalties shall be remitted to the
person who posted the bond/cash.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.6 FEES.
   The fee to be charged for vaccinations of dogs and cats administered
pursuant to the requirements of G.S. §§ 130A-184 et seq. shall be those
established by the County Commissioners.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.7 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Physical restraint. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
having possession, charge, custody or control of any animal, excluding cats, to
keep such animal on his or her own premises or off the premises, unless such
animal is under sufficient physical restraint to controls the animal, or within
a vehicle or adequately contained by a fence on the premises or other secure
enclosure. If the physical restraint used is a leash requiring a person to
control the animal, the person using such restraint must be of sufficient age
and physical size or ability to reasonably restrain the animal. If the secure
enclosure is an invisible fence system, then all components of the system must
be in working order and in proper place. Additionally, there must be a visible,
permanent sign on the premises stating that there is an invisible fence.
   (B)   Tethering. Dogs may be tethered to a stationary object only if the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The tether by design and placement shall allow the dog a reasonable
and unobstructed range of motion without the possibility of entanglement,
strangulation or other injury. The tether shall allow the dog access to
adequate food, water and shelter;
      (2)   A dog must be four months of age or older to be tethered;
      (3)   Only one dog shall be attached to a single tether;
      (4)   Pulley systems, running lines, and trolley systems may be used in
conjunction with a tether;
      (5)   An animal control officer may in his or her discretion order a more
restrictive tethering requirement if circumstances require and it is not
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of a dog.
   (C)   Adult with animal on premises. If a responsible adult is physically
outdoors, and immediately adjacent to the animal, on the land where the owner
of the animal resides, and the animal is under the person's direct control and
is obedient to that person's commands, this section shall not apply during the
duration of the time the animal is in the company and under the control of that
adult and the animal is on the premises. An adult is defined as a person 18
years of age or older.
   (D)   Public parks. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having
possession, charge, custody, or control of any dog to take the dog into or
allow the dog to enter any public park without being at all times under the
restraint of a leash, except while in designated off-leash areas, in accordance
with the rules and regulations pertaining to such off-leash areas. This
subsection shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Parks that have been designated as leash-free parks by the
governmental agency responsible for the park;
      (2)   Guide and hearing-aid dogs that are in the company of blind or deaf
persons or being trained for such purposes;
      (3)   Dogs employed or hired by law enforcement agencies or by the
governmental agency responsible for the park to perform a governmental purpose
within the park.
(Adopted 1-4-2022 )
EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS
§ 3-1.10 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the Board of Commissioners to protect the public against
health and safety hazards that exotic or wild animals pose to the community, as
well as to protect the welfare of the individual animals held in private
possession. By their very nature, these animals are wild and potentially
dangerous, and do not adjust well to a captive environment.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL. An animal that would ordinarily be confined to a zoo,
or one that would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other
country, or one that is a species of animal not indigenous to the United States
or North America, known at law as ferae naturae, one that otherwise is likely
to cause a reasonable person to be fearful of significant destruction of
property or of bodily harm, including but not limited to all raccoons,
squirrels, ocelots, bobcats, wolves, venomous reptiles, and other such animals.
EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS also include primates weighing over 25 pounds at
maturity, and non-venomous reptiles more than ten feet in length. EXOTIC OR
WILD ANIMALS specifically do not include animals of a species customarily used
in this state as ordinary household pets, animals of a species customarily used
in this state as domestic farm animals, fish other than piranha confined in an
aquarium, birds, or insects, but does include certain members of the Canidae,
Ursidae, and Felidae families.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.12 POSSESSION AND/OR HARBORING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or harbor any exotic or
wild animals within the county, except as set forth herein.
   (B)   Anyone bringing a prohibited exotic or wild animal into the county
after October 3, 2017, the effective date of this subchapter, shall remove the
animal within seven calendar days of its discovery, or of a notice to remove
the animal.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.13 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED CREATURES.
   (A)   Any inherently dangerous exotic or wild mammal, inherently dangerous
reptile, or wild animal, which is kept by any person in contravention of this
subchapter, may be taken up and impounded by the Animal Control Department,
without the necessity of a written order or a court order, for the protection
of the public or the health of the animal.
   (B)   If the animal cannot be taken up safely by the Animal Control
Department or law enforcement, or if proper and safe housing cannot be found
for the animal, the Department may immediately destroy the animal.
   (C)   The owner or keeper of an impounded animal may reclaim the animal if
the person satisfies the Animal Control Department Director, or the Director's
designee, that a safe and prompt transfer of the animal to an appropriate
location outside the county has been arranged.
   (D)   If an impounded animal's owner or keeper cannot be located, or if an
impounded animal remains unclaimed, at the discretion of the Animal Control
Department Director, or the Director's designee, the Animal Control Department
may euthanize the animal, allow it to be lawfully adopted by a zoo, or return
it to the appropriate wilderness.
   (E)   Security for costs.
      (1)   Disposition. Excluding animals under quarantine pursuant to the
provisions of state law, any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or state law may be humanely disposed of by adoption or euthanasia at
the discretion of Davie County Animal Control after three days following the
date on which the animal was seized unless the animal's owner provides a
security bond or cash in accordance with division (E)(2) below.
      (2)   Bond. Any person claiming an ownership interest in any animal
confined pursuant to this subchapter may prevent the disposition of the animal
after the three-day period set forth in this subchapter by posting a security
bond or cash with the Animal Control Department prior to the animal being
adopted or euthanized in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment of all of
the reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and providing for the
animal, including the estimated cost of medical care, for at least 30 days,
however, such security shall not prevent the Animal Control Department from
disposing of the animal at the end of the 30-day period covered by the posted
bond/cash, unless the person claiming an ownership interest in the animal posts
an additional security bond or cash with the Animal Control Department to
secure payment of the animal's reasonable expenses for an additional 30 days,
and does so prior to the expiration of the first 30-day period. The amount of
the bond/cash shall be determined by Davie County Animal Control based on the
current rate for board and on the condition of the animal after examination by
an Animal Control Officer. Failure to timely post the security shall result in
the animal being immediately forfeited to the Animal Control Department for
disposition in accordance with division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   Notice. Excluding owner-surrendered animals, if the animal control
takes custody of an animal pursuant to this subchapter, the Department shall
give notice of this section by posting a copy of it at the location where the
animal was seized or by delivering it to a person residing on the property of
the owner within 24 hours of the time the animal was seized.
      (4)   Security forfeited upon failure, to pay costs. If the fees, costs,
and penalties owed for the animal are not paid in full by the end of each
security period, the security already posted shall be forfeited to the county
on said date and used to pay the remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties
owing for the animal. The animal's owner shall remain responsible for all
remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties. Any security bond/cash remaining
after the payment of all fees, costs, and penalties shall be remitted to the
person who posted the bond/cash.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.14 PREEXISTING OWNERSHIP OR POSSESSION OF EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any county resident having established preexisting ownership or
possession of any exotic or wild animal shall, within 30 calendar days of
October 3, 2017, the effective date of this subchapter, contact County Animal
Control and commence the permit/registration process.
   (B)   Failure to commence the permit/registration process for a preexisting
exotic or wild animal before November 2, 2017, shall be governed by §
3-1.12(B), and shall be a violation of this chapter as of its effective date.
   (C)   No one may possess more than six adults wild or exotic animals at one
time.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.15 PERMIT/REGISTRATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Application. This permit/registration process shall apply to the
following:
      (1)   Those exotic or wild animals set forth in §
3-1.12 already present in the county before October 3, 2017, the effective date
of this chapter; and
      (2)   Exotic or wild animals not specifically prohibited by §
3-1.12.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Payment of the non-refundable permit fee established by the County
Commissioners per exotic or wild animal shall constitute the beginning of the
permit/registration process.
      (2)   Any other fees arising from this process shall be at the expense of
the owner or possessor of the animal.
   (C)   Compliance within 90 days.
      (1)   Applicants beginning the permit/registration process will be given
a list of requirements that must be complied with before issuance of a permit.
      (2)   Applicants must complete compliance with the list of requirements
no later than 90 days from the beginning of the permit/registration process.
   (D)   Requirements. Requirements for the issuance of a permit for an exotic
or wild animal include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance coverage, with a minimum of $1,000,000
per claim, in order to compensate for personal injury or property damage caused
by the animal, or, in lieu of insurance, a surety bond posted with the County
Manager in the same amount, conditioned upon payment of such damages;
      (2)   The owner of the property harboring the exotic or wild animal shall
post a sign at each entry point to the property in question, warning of the
animal's presence, in order to assist Animal Control authorities in identifying
the presence of the exotic or wild animal;
      (3)   Required signs shall be at least three-square feet in size, and
shall, at a minimum, identify the following in reflective letters of a
contrasting color so as to be easily read on the background of the sign:
         (a)   The word "WARNING" in all capitals at least four inches high;
         (b)   The common name of the exotic or wild animal;
         (c)   The location on the property of the exotic or wild animal; and
         (d)   The potential danger posed by the exotic or wild animal (biting,
clawing, venom, constriction, kicking, and the like).
      (4)   Obtaining from a veterinarian a health certificate detailing the
health and condition of the exotic or wild animal; and
      (5)   All exotic or wild animals shall be housed in facilities designed
with the characteristics and potential dangers of the particular exotic or wild
animal in mind, as determined by the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   Issuance of a permit.
      (1)   When the exotic or wild animal owner or possessor has completed the
list of restrictions, but no later than 60 days from the beginning of the
permit/registration process, unless extended by the County Manager, the owner
shall contact and arrange for an initial inspection by County Animal Control,
which shall not unreasonably delay this initial inspection.
      (2)   (a)   When County Animal Control has conducted its initial
inspection and found the list of restrictions to have been completed in a
satisfactory manner, it shall issue the permit to the owner or possessor of the
exotic or wild animal.
         (b)   A condition of the permit shall be that the Animal Control shall
have the right to periodic inspections to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
      (3)   The initial term of this permit shall be three years.
      (4)   This permit shall be renewable every three years, or the lesser of
the life of the exotic or wild animal or the length of its residency in the
county, upon payment of the $25 permit renewal fee, and satisfactory completion
of a follow-up inspection by County Animal Control of the facility housing the
exotic or wild animal.
      (5)   This permit shall be presented for renewal prior to the expiration
of the current term; otherwise, the permit is considered expired.
      (6)   The county may adopt appropriate regulations to implement this
subchapter.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Animal control or law enforcement agencies or officials acting under
the authority of this subchapter;
   (B)   Licensed veterinary hospitals or clinics that are temporarily
treating/housing exotic or wild animals;
   (C)   Any licensed and accredited research, medical, or educational
institution;
   (D)   Persons temporarily transporting exotic or wild animals through the
county, provided that such transport time shall not exceed 24 hours;
   (E)   Nonresident circuses, carnivals, or traveling fairs for no longer than
one ten-day period, per each separate location where such circus is held within
the county per calendar year;
   (F)   Exotic or wild animals under the control of the State Zoological Park;
or
   (G)   Service animals assisting disabled persons.
(Adopted 10-3-2017)
§ 3-1.17 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal and /or civil penalties. Violation of §§
3-1.2 through
3-1.16 of this chapter is punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor under G.S. §§ 14-
4 and 160A-175, and shall be fined not more than $500, and/or a civil penalty
under §
1.8 of this code.
   (B)   Each day of violation of any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. The payment of a fine imposed in criminal
proceedings pursuant to this section does not relieve the person of the
liability for any taxes, fees, costs, or penalties otherwise imposed under this
chapter.
(Adopted 10-3-2017; Amended 1-4-2022 )
ARTICLE 2: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
3-2.1   Definitions
   
3-2.2   Permit—required
   
3-2.3   Same—requirements; issuance
   
3-2.4   Same—revocation
   
3-2.5   Certain activities prohibited
   
3-2.6   Interference prohibited
   
3-2.7   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
3-2.8   Exceptions
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate processions and assemblages, see G.S. § 20-169
   Authority to tax therefor, see G.S. § 160A-209(c)(9)
   County and municipal emergency management, see G.S. § 166A-7
§ 3-2.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(1989 Code, § 12-20; 2003 Code, § 3-2.1)
§ 3-2.2 PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the municipality unless a permit therefor
has been issued by the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
(1989 Code, § 12-21; 2003 Code, § 3-2.2)
§ 3-2.3 SAME—REQUIREMENTS; ISSUANCE.
   The Town Manager or the Town Manager’s designee shall issue permits as
required in §
3-2.2. and, in the issuance thereof, shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket
line and the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group
demonstrations;
   (B)   Refuse to issue permits for parades or group demonstrations to be held
at the same time and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a
written application previously received by the Town Manager or the Town
Manager’s designee;
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
   (D)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. That person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration
and shall carry the permit with the person at that time. The permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person.
(1989 Code, § 12-22; 2003 Code, § 3-2.3) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 3-2.4 SAME—REVOCATION.
   The Town Manager shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket line
or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
3-2.5; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(1989 Code, § 12-23; 2003 Code, § 3-2.4) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 3-2.5 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as part of, any parade, picket line or group demonstration,
are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person of any firearm (except as
permitted by N.C. statute), or any weapon or article, including, but not
limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks, clubs, boards, baseball bats or
flashlights, which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any vicious dog or other vicious animal,
whether leashed or unleashed; and
   (C)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under § 1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 12-24; 2003 Code, § 3-2.5) (Amended 7-6-2021; Amended 1-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction of justice by parading or picketing, see G.S. § 14-225.1
§ 3-2.6 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall tamper, obstruct or interfere with any parade, picket
line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit duly
issued by the Town Manager or the Town Manager's designee.
   (B)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under § 1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 12-25; 2003 Code, § 3-2.6) (Amended 7-6-2021; Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 3-2.7 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than one foot from the curb line and shall be in
continuous motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and that use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Town Manager or the Town Manager’s designee shall
allot time to each group of pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable
basis.
   (F)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under § 1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 12-26; 2003 Code, § 3-2.7) (Amended 7-6-2021; Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 3-2.8 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1989 Code, § 12-27; 2003 Code, § 3-2.8)
ARTICLE 3: CEMETERIES
Section
   
3-3.1   Burials in cemeteries
   
3-3.2   Map of Rose Cemetery
   
3-3.3   Digging graves in Rose Cemetery
   
3-3.4   Certificate prior to burial
   
3-3.5   Disinterments in Rose Cemetery
   
3-3.6   Damaging property in cemetery
   
3-3.7   One interment in grave in Rose Cemetery; exception; type of grave
   
3-3.8   Entering cemetery between sunset and sunrise
   
3-3.9   Cemetery not to be used as public thoroughfare
   
3-3.10   Cemetery rules and regulations
   
3-3.11   Procedure for purchase of burial easements
   
3-3.12   Price of burial easements
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish and operate cemeteries, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 et seq.
   Authority to tax therefor, see G.S. § 160A-209(c)(8)
§ 3-3.1 BURIALS IN CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury, or cause to be buried, any
human body in any place other than in Rose Cemetery or other cemetery approved
by the town, and not then until a lot has been purchased.
(1989 Code, § 5-1; 2003 Code, § 3-3.1)
§ 3-3.2 MAP OF ROSE CEMETERY.
   The Town Clerk shall keep a map of Rose Cemetery showing thereon all burial
plots or squares which are offered for sale, together with those sold,
indicating the exact location of each.
(1989 Code, § 5-2; 2003 Code, § 3-3.2)
§ 3-3.3 DIGGING GRAVES IN ROSE CEMETERY.
   No person shall dig any grave in Rose Cemetery without permission from the
town.
(1989 Code, § 5-4; 2003 Code, § 3-3.4)
§ 3-3.4 CERTIFICATE PRIOR TO BURIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to bury any dead body without first securing a
certificate from some licensed physician. The certificate shall give the name
and residence of the deceased, the name of the nearest relative and the time,
place and cause of death.
(1989 Code, § 5-5; 2003 Code, § 3-3.5)
§ 3-3.5 DISINTERMENTS IN ROSE CEMETERY.
   No disinterments in Rose Cemetery shall be made, except by Rose Cemetery
employees, with the consent of the Board and upon written consent of the lot
owner or nearest of kin. Disinterments shall be made as provided by the laws of
the state.
(1989 Code, § 5-6; 2003 Code, § 3-3.6)
§ 3-3.6 DAMAGING PROPERTY IN CEMETERY.
   It shall be unlawful to damage, destroy or deface any property in or
belonging to any cemetery.
(1989 Code, § 5-7; 2003 Code, § 3-3.7)
§ 3-3.7 ONE INTERMENT IN GRAVE IN ROSE CEMETERY; EXCEPTION; TYPE OF GRAVE.
   (A)   In Rose Cemetery, only one interment shall be made in a grave, except
upon permission of the town.
   (B)   All burials shall be in a vault or urn.
(1989 Code, § 5-8; 2003 Code, § 3-3.8)
§ 3-3.8 ENTERING CEMETERY BETWEEN SUNSET AND SUNRISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any cemetery at any time
between sunset and sunrise for any purpose without written consent of the
cemetery keeper.
(1989 Code, § 5-9; 2003 Code, § 3-3.9)
§ 3-3.9 CEMETERY NOT TO BE USED AS PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE.
   No person shall use the avenues of any cemetery as public thoroughfares.
(1989 Code, § 5-10; 2003 Code, § 3-3.10)
§ 3-3.10 CEMETERY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only one grave marker shall be placed on any single grave. Only one
permanently affixed vase, approved by the cemetery administrator, is allowed on
a grave marker. The marker shall be set so that it is flush with the ground.
The installation of markers shall be supervised by a designated employee of the
town. If a marker is not installed in six months from the date of interment,
the town may install a marker at the owner’s expense as provided in the Rules
of Rose Cemetery.
   (B)   Grave mounds are prohibited. No grave or lot shall be raised above the
existing established graves.
   (C)   Other than grass, there shall be no other planting of any kind,
including trees, flowers or shrubs, on any lot.
   (D)   Except for markers, as above provided, vases permanently affixed to
the marker, and natural flowers in vases or wreaths, and seasonal displays are
provided in the Rules of Rose Cemetery, no other objects or item shall be
placed upon a grave or lot, except by the written consent of the cemetery
administrator.
   (E)   Easement owners are responsible of maintenance of any monument,
headstone or footstone.
   (F)   Existing above-ground grave markers/monuments that do not meet the
requirements of subsection (A) above are permitted to remain as long as they
are in good repair and are stable. When a grave marker becomes unstable,
collapsed or a danger, the town will attempt to contact the next of kin to
repair or remove the marker or monument in 30 days. If next of kin cannot be
located, or if the next of kin decline to remove the marker/monument or if the
marker/monument is listing or in danger of collapse or is in any other way a
hazard to the public or town employees, town staff will remove the marker/
monument and store it at the Public Works Department yard for one year. If
unclaimed by next of kin within one calendar year, the town will place the
marker/monument in a section of Rose Cemetery that is unused and in which no
burial plats will be sold. Markers and monuments shall be placed in a safe and
stable position to minimize the danger of collapse.
   (G)   Objects of remembrance. "Objects of remembrance" are defined in G.S. §
100-2.1(a) as "A monument, memorial, plaque, statue, marker, or display of a
permanent character that commemorates an event, a person, or military service
that is part of North Carolina's history."
      (1)   Objects of remembrance (the "object") may only be moved to preserve
the object or when necessary for construction or renovation of buildings, open
spaces, parking lots or transportation projects. One exception to the
requirements of the statute is found at G.S. § 100-2.1(c)(3); "An object of
remembrance for which a building inspector or similar official has determined
poses a threat to public safety because of an unsafe or dangerous condition."
      (2)   If an object becomes damaged, broken, unstable or collapses, except
that the town will not dispose of the object. If next of kin cannot be found or
they decline to restore the object, the object will be moved to a suitable area
of the cemetery designated for objects and placed in a safe and stable
position, including laying the largest side of the object directly on the
ground.
(1989 Code, § 5-11; 2003 Code, § 3-3.11) (Amended 6-1-2021; Amended 9-7-2021)
§ 3-3.11 PROCEDURE FOR PURCHASE OF BURIAL EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. The town intends to make cemetery lots and columbarium niches
available to all persons on an equal basis. In order to accomplish this,
restrictions must be placed on the re-sale of burial easements to discourage
the purchasing of burial easements with the primary intent of reselling them
for a profit.
   (B)   Number of lots. No person shall be allowed to purchase from the town
more than six burial easements.
   (C)   Owners of burial easements in the cemetery are granted an easement for
burial purposes. This easement is subject to the rules and regulations of the
town and the conditions on the grant of easement.
   (D)   Sale by town. Upon payment by the purchaser of the full purchase price
and registration fee, the Town Clerk or designee shall cause the easement deed
to be executed by the Mayor, registered in the office of the county register of
deeds, provide a copy to the purchaser, and maintain the record copy.
   (E)   Reconveyance by purchaser. In order to properly manage the new
sections of the cemetery, the town must know, at all times, the identity of the
legal owner of each burial easement. The public records of the county registry
shall be used for that purpose. If the legal owner of a burial easement wishes
to sell the easement after conveyance from the town, both the owner and the
purchaser must work with the Town Clerk to register the conveying instrument in
the office of the county register of deeds.
   (F)   The town will repurchase empty burial plots or columbarium niches at
the price paid to the town plus 10% provided that the seller can convey
marketable title to the plot.
(Adopted 6-1-2021)
§ 3-3.12 PRICE OF BURIAL EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The price of burial easements shall be determined by the town Board of
Commissioners and made a part of the fee schedule in the budget ordinance. In
addition to the purchase price, the town shall collect a fee for the
registration of the deed with the county register of deeds. The registration
fee collected shall be in accordance with the county register of deeds fee
schedule.
   (B)   Upon request of the easement owner, and approved by the Board of
Commissioners, the town will repurchase easements sold for the amount set forth
in the town fee schedule.
(Adopted 6-1-2021)
ARTICLE 4: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
3-4.1   General park rules
   
3-4.2   Rich Park; hours and rules
   
3-4.3   Main Street Park rules
Cross-reference:
   Protection of trees in parks, see §§
9-3.1 et seq.
§ 3-4.1 GENERAL PARK RULES.
   The following rules are applicable to all town parks and recreation areas.
   (A)   Foul language and disrespectful behavior is prohibited.
   (B)   Carrying weapons without the proper permit is prohibited.
   (C)   Trash. All trash must be discarded inside designated trash
receptacles.
   (D)   Noise. All music and other noise must be kept to acceptable levels and
in accordance with town ordinance.
   (E)   Tobacco. Use of tobacco products while on park premises is prohibited.
   (F)   Controlled substances. Alcohol or controlled substances is prohibited
while on park premises.
   (G)   Signs. The addition of signage without prior Parks and Grounds staff
approval is prohibited.
   (H)   Child safety. Young children are to be supervised by responsible
adults.
   (I)   Medical concerns/emergencies. Patrons with existing medical concerns
are encouraged to consult their personal physician before using park
facilities. FOR EMERGENCIES, CALL 911.
   (J)   Pets. Pets must be leashed and under control at all times. Dangerous
pets or animals are prohibited. Animal waste must be disposed of properly
through facility receptacles.
   (K)   Lost and found. The town is not responsible for lost or stolen items.
Park visitors are encouraged to lock their vehicles. For lost items, please
notify Town Hall during regular business hours at (336) 753-6700.
   (L)   Trespassing. Entering park premises outside of normal operating hours
is prohibited.
   (M)   The following rules are applicable to all town parks and recreation
areas. Shelters and restrooms are provided for members of the public actively
using the town's park facilities and are subject to the following rules:
      (1)   No people, pets or bedding are allowed on table tops.
      (2)   Restrooms are not to be used for bathing, shaving or other
activities not associated with hand sanitation and relieving bodily functions.
      (3)   No sleeping is allowed in cars, shelters or on the park property.
      (4)   Shelters are available for reservation and reservations will be
honored before any unscheduled use.
   (N)   Park rules. All park rules and applicable town, county, state and
federal laws must be abided by at all times. Violations of these provisions
will result in the loss of the ability to use town facilities at the discretion
of the Town of Mocksville. Violators may be cited under § 1.8 General Penalty;
Enforcement of Ordinances; Continuing Violations of this Code of Ordinances.
(Adopted 6-5-2018; Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 3-4.2 RICH PARK; HOURS AND RULES.
   In addition to the rules in §
3-4.1, the following rules apply to Rich Park.
   (A)   The hours during which the premises known as Rich Park will be open to
the public daily from dawn to dusk with the exception of scheduled park events
with town approval. No unauthorized person will be in Rich Park from dusk to
dawn and no private vehicular traffic will be permitted upon the park roads
during those hours.
   (B)   The Park speed limit is 10 M.P.H.
   (C)   Fires are permitted only in the permanent grills at the shelter.   
(1989 Code, § 13-1; 2003 Code, § 3-4.1) (Amended 9-1-2015; Amended 6-5-2018)
§ 3-4.3 MAIN STREET PARK RULES.
   In addition to the rules in §
3-4.1, the following rules apply to Main Street Park.
   (A)   Usage. Drop-in usage is first-come, first-served.
   (B)   Decorations. Nails, glue, staples, screws and duct tape are prohibited
in decorating the facility. Leaving a permanent mark on the facility in any way
it is prohibited; violators will be responsible replacement costs due to
repairs.
   (C)   Cleaning. Park facilities must be left in the condition in which they
were received by park patrons. Grounds must be free of trash. Restrooms must be
left in an orderly fashion with urinals and commodes flushed.
   (D)   No open flames. Candles (excluding small birthday candles) and other
open flames are prohibited in buildings. Open fires and fireworks are
prohibited.
   (E)   Parking. Parking will be in designated areas only. Parking is not
permitted at the picnic shelters or in the grass without explicit permission
from the Parks and Grounds Director. Violators may be towed at the vehicle
owner's expense.
   (F)   Motorized vehicles. Motorized vehicles other that handicap accessible
equipment are prohibited unless specifically authorized by Parks and Grounds
staff. Non-motorized vehicles, including skates, skateboards, and bikes are not
permitted to be operated or used while at the park.
   (G)   Park fountain and water features. Bathing and swimming are prohibited
in the fountain water feature. Standing on the seat walls and inner fountain
rim is prohibited. Throwing or placing any objects into the fountain is
strictly prohibited.
   (H)   Vendors. The Town Manager or designee will determine where vendors may
be situated during special events and other activities. Vendor events and
participants must be approved in advance by the town.
   (I)   Hours of operation. Normal hours of park operation are 5:30 a.m. until
11:00 p.m., except in conjunction with authorized events, in which case the
park closes 15 minutes after the end of the last event.
(Adopted 6-15-2018)
CHAPTER IV: FINANCE AND TAXATION
      Article
         
1.   IN GENERAL
         
2.   [RESERVED]
         
3.   PAWNBROKERS
         
4.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
         
4A.   REGULATION OF STREET SOLICITORS
         
5.   POOL, BILLIARD TABLES AND OTHER TABLES, BOWLING ALLEYS AND OTHER ALLEYS
         
6.   TAXICABS
         
7.   GARAGE SALES
         
8.   LICENSE TAX ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS
ARTICLE 1: IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-1.1   Purchasing—procedure for disbursement
   
4-1.2   Same—purchase order
   
4-1.3   Same—countersignatures upon all drafts
   
4-1.4   Schedule of fees and license taxes incorporated by reference
   
4-1.5   Power to regulate; franchise
   
4-1.6   Disposal of personal property valued at less than $30,000
§ 4-1.1 PURCHASING—PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the Finance Director. No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Finance Director as follows:
   "This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act."
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Director's pre-audit certificate as follows:
   " This instrument has been pre-audited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act."
(1989 Code, § 7-1; 2003 Code, § 4-1.1) (Amended 10-4-2022)
Charter reference:
   Purchase procedure, see §
4.9
Statutory reference:
   For such act, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 4-1.2 SAME—PURCHASE ORDER.
   (A)   Before any purchases are initiated over $500 and paid by the town, a
purchase order must first be provided to the Finance Director for pre-audit.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to purchases of an amount set, from time
to time, by the Finance Director.
(1989 Code, § 7-2; 2003 Code, § 4-1.2) (Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 4-1.3 SAME—COUNTERSIGNATURES UPON ALL DRAFTS.
   All checks and drafts issued by the town, regardless of amount, must be
signed by the Finance Director and countersigned an employee designated to
countersign.
(1989 Code, § 7-3; 2003 Code, § 4-1.3) (Amended 10-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Dual signatures required on checks, see G.S. § 159-25
§ 4-1.4 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND LICENSE TAXES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The schedule of fees shall be maintained in the office of the Town Hall and
is also available to the public online. The fee schedule is incorporated herein
by reference and made a part hereof as if set out in full herein.
(1989 Code, § 11-16; 2003 Code, § 4-1.4) (Ord. passed 6-7-2011; Amended 10-4-
2022)
§ 4-1.5 POWER TO REGULATE; FRANCHISE.
   The Board of Commissioners may regulate and supervise the operation of all
public utilities and quasi-public utilities operating or doing business within
the town to the end that all citizens of the town shall receive from the public
utilities and quasi-public utilities, equal treatment, good service and just
and reasonable rates, and to grant or refuse franchises or privileges to the
utilities and to regulate the erection and location of all poles and ancillary
structures in the town and to require that all wires, pipes and conduits be
placed underground and to regulate the same; provided that, the regulations
shall not be in contravention of the general laws of the state applicable to
the utilities, as the same are now or may hereafter be enacted.
(2003 Code, § 4-1.5)
§ 4-1.6 DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN $30,000.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. 160A-266(c),
to dispose of any surplus property owned by the town whenever he or she
determines, at his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property by
any means that he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party that tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner. The Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   On or before February 1, the Town Manager shall report to the Board of
Commissioners, in writing, on any property disposed of under these provisions,
from July 1 through December 31 of the previous year. On or before the August
1, the Town Manager shall report to the Board of Commissioners, in writing, on
any property disposed of under these provisions from January 1 through June 30
of that year. The written report shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom it was exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange since the
last such report was submitted.
(Adopted 3-6-2007)
Statutory reference:
   A city’s methods of sale for personal property; limitation, see G.S. § 160A-
266.
ARTICLE 2: [RESERVED]
 
ARTICLE 3: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
4-3.1   Definitions
   
4-3.2   License required
   
4-3.3   Issuance of license; fees
   
4-3.4   Compliance with laws
   
4-3.5   Revocation of pawnbroker's license
   
4-3.6   Record keeping requirements
§ 4-3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   PAWN or PAWN TRANSACTION. A written bailment of personal property as
security for debt, redeemable on certain terms within 180 days, unless renewed,
and with an implied power of sale on default.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in the business of lending money on the
security of pledged goods and who may also purchase merchandise for resale from
dealers and traders.
   PAWNSHOP. The location at which, or the premises in which, a pawnbroker
regularly conducts business.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, joint venture, association or any other
legal entity, however organized.
   PLEDGED GOODS. Tangible personal property which is deposited with, or
otherwise delivered into, the possession of a pawnbroker in the course of his
or her business in connection with a pawn transaction.
   PURCHASE. Any item purchased from an individual for the purpose of resale
whereby the seller no longer has a vested interest in the item.
(2003 Code, § 4-3.1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 91A-3
§ 4-3.2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or operate a pawnbroker
business without first having applied for and been granted the license provided
by this section.
   (B)   Every application for a pawnbroker's license shall be upon a form
approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Tax Collector. Each
application shall be made under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and, in the case of a firm or
partnership, the names and addresses of the persons comprising the firm or of
the officers of a corporation;
      (2)   The name of the business and the street address and mailing address
where the business is to be operated;
      (3)   A statement indicating the amount of net assets or capital proposed
to be used by the applicant in operation of the business. This statement shall
be accompanied by an unaudited statement from an accountant or certified public
accountant verifying the information contained in the accompanying statement;
      (4)   An affidavit by the applicant that he or she has not been convicted
of a felony; and
      (5)   A certificate from the Chief of Police, Sheriff of the county or
the State Bureau of Investigation certifying that the applicant has not been
convicted of a felony.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Davie
County Sheriff’s Office for an investigative report; to the Building Inspector
for a determination as to compliance with building regulations; to the Town
Planner for a determination as to compliance with zoning regulations (see §§
8-3.3.5 and
8-3.8.53 of the zoning article of this code for regulations); and to the Fire
Department to determine compliance with laws relating to fire protection. These
departments shall report back to the Town Clerk within a reasonable period of
time not to exceed 30 days.
   (D)   An application in proper form shall be placed on the agenda of the
first regular Board meeting after completion of the reports and for which the
normal agenda deadline date can be met.
   (E)   To be eligible for a pawnbroker's license, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be of good moral character; and
      (2)   Not have been convicted of a felony within the last ten years.
(2003 Code, § 4-3.2) (Amended 6-1-2010; Amended 7-6-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal license required, see G.S. §§ 91A-1 et seq.
§ 4-3.3 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may grant to the applicant as it may deem
proper and who complies with all of the requirements of this article, a license
authorizing the applicant to carry on the business of a pawnbroker, which
license shall designate the place in which the business shall be carried on.
The applicant shall pay a fee, in addition to any other fee or tax, in the sum
of $100 for the license.
   (B)   Before issuing a license, the Board shall be satisfied that the
applicant is a suitable person to hold a pawnbroker's license and that the
location is a suitable place to hold the proposed license. To be a suitable
place, the establishment shall comply with all the rules and regulations set
out in G.S. Ch. 91A. Other factors the Board may consider in determining
whether the applicant and the business location are suitable shall include all
of the following:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable Zoning,
Building and Fire Prevention Codes;
      (3)    The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony within a
ten-year period preceding the filing of the application;
      (4)   Parking facilities and traffic facilities in the neighborhood;
      (5)   The recommendations of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office; and
      (6)   Any other evidence that would tend to show whether the applicant
would comply with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 91A and the applicable provisions
of this code and whether the operation of the business at that location would
be detrimental to the neighborhood.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application by the Board and upon receipt of the
license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue a pawnbroker's license to the
applicant. The license shall be renewed annually by the licensee.
   (D)   (1)   At the time of receiving the license, the applicant shall file
with the Town Clerk a bond payable to the town in the amount of $5,000 to be
executed by the licensee and by two sureties or a surety company licensed to do
business in the state, which shall be for the faithful performance of the
requirements and obligations pertaining to the business so licensed.
      (2)   The town may sue for forfeiture of the bond upon breach thereof,
and any other person who obtains a judgment against a pawnbroker and, upon
which judgment execution is returned unsatisfied, may maintain an action in his
or her own name upon the bond to satisfy the judgment.
(1989 Code, § 11-22; 2003 Code, § 4-3.1) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-3.4 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The licensee shall operate the business at all times in accordance with G.S.
Ch. 91A and the various ordinances of the municipality.
(1989 Code, § 11-23; 2003 Code, § 4-3.4)
§ 4-3.5 REVOCATION OF PAWNBROKER'S LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked by action of the
Board for substantial abuses of this article or G.S. Ch. 91A. Before the Board
revokes a license pursuant to this chapter, and before the Board considers an
application for a license pursuant to this chapter, a written notice shall be
sent to the licensee or applicant affected, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address listed on the application. The notice shall advise
the affected party of a right to appear before the Board, with or without legal
counsel, at a stated time and place at least ten days following the date of the
notice for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or
application and for the purpose of cross-examining any person providing
evidence against the respondent. A revocation hearing can be initiated by the
Davie County Sheriff or by the Town Board.
(2003 Code, § 4-3.5) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-3.6 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep consecutively numbered records of each
pawn transaction. The records shall correspond in all essential particulars to
a detachable pawn ticket or copy thereof attached to the record.
   (B)   The pawnbroker shall, at the time of making the pawn or purchase
transaction, enter upon the pawn ticket a record of the following information
which shall be typed or written in ink and in the English language:
      (1)   A clear and accurate description of the property, including model
and serial number if indicated on the property;
      (2)   The name, residence address, phone number and date of birth of the
pledgor;
      (3)   The date of the transaction;
      (4)   The type of identification and identification number accepted from
pledgor;
      (5)   Physical description of the pledgor;
      (6)   The amount of money advanced;
      (7)   The date and the amount due;
      (8)   All monthly pawn charges, including interest, annual percentage
rate on interest and total recovery fee; and
      (9)   Agreed upon stated value between the pledgor and the pawnbroker in
case of loss or destruction of pledged item. Unless otherwise noted, the stated
value is the same as the loan value.
   (C)   The following shall be printed on all pawn tickets:
      (1)   The statement that "Any personal property pledged to a pawnbroker
within this state is subject to sale or disposal when there has been no payment
made on the account for a period of 60 days past maturity date of the original
contract. No further notice is necessary";
      (2)   The statement that "The pledgor of this item attests that it is not
stolen, has no liens or encumbrances and is pledgor's to sell or to pawn";
      (3)   The statement that "The item pawned is redeemable only by the
bearer of this ticket or by identification of the person making the pawn"; and
      (4)   A blank line for the pledgor's signature or initials.
   (D)   The pledgor shall sign the pawn ticket and shall receive an exact copy
of the pawn ticket, which shall be signed or initialed by the pawnbroker or an
employee of the pawnbroker. These records shall be available for inspection and
pickup each regular workday by the Davie County Sheriff or designee. These
records shall be a correct copy of the entries made of the pawn or purchase
transaction and shall be carefully preserved without alteration and shall be
available during regular business hours.
    (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person presenting a
pawn ticket for redemption is presumed to be entitled to redeem the property
described by the ticket.
(2003 Code, § 4-3.6) (Amended 7-6-2021)
ARTICLE 4: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
4-4.1   [Reserved]
   
4-4.2   Adoption of Davie County ordinance by reference
Cross-reference:
   Creation of noise by peddlers, see §
7-5.2(N)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-178
§ 4-4.1 [RESERVED].
§ 4-4.2 ADOPTION OF DAVIE COUNTY ORDINANCE BY REFERENCE.
   Davie County Code of Ordinances Chapter 115 (Peddlers and Panhandlers) is
adopted by reference as if set out herein to the extent it is permitted by
North Carolina law. Section 115.11, Privilege License for Peddlers and
Panhandlers is not adopted by reference.
(Adopted 7-6-2021)
ARTICLE 4A: REGULATION OF STREET SOLICITORS
Section
   
4A.1   Intent
   
4A.2   Roadway solicitation prohibited
   
4A.3   Conflict
§ 4A.1 INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to prohibit the solicitation of occupants of
vehicles on streets and highways and to thereby regulate vehicular and
pedestrian flow and to promote roadway safety.
(Amended 11-3-2009)
§ 4A.2 ROADWAY SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand on any street, highway or
right-of-way, excluding sidewalks, within the town, while soliciting or
attempting to solicit any employment, business or contributions from the driver
or occupants of any vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to emergency repairs or services
requested by the operators of the vehicles.
   (C)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
§§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under § 1.8 of this code.
(Amended 11-3-2009; Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 4A.3 CONFLICT.
   If there is a conflict between the provisions of this article and Article 4,
the provisions of this article shall prevail.
(Amended 11-3-2009)
ARTICLE 5: POOL, BILLIARD TABLES AND OTHER TABLES, BOWLING ALLEYS AND OTHER
ALLEYS
Section
   
4-5.1   License—required; expiration; non-transferable
   
4-5.2   Same—application
   
4-5.3   Same—denial
   
4-5.4   Same—form and content; display
   
4-5.5   Same—revocation
   
4-5.6   Prohibited acts
   
4-5.7   Rules for operation of pool and billiard rooms
   
4-5.8   Licensee responsible for agents and employees
§ 4-5.1 LICENSE—REQUIRED; EXPIRATION; NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table,
bowling alley or other table or alley for any game or play for which a charge
is made, either directly or indirectly, unless the person shall first have
secured a license from the Board to do so.
   (B)   The licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (C)   The licenses shall not be transferable.
(1989 Code, § 11-40; 2003 Code, § 4-5.1)
§ 4-5.2 SAME—APPLICATION.
   Application for the license shall be made upon a form provided by the Town
Clerk and shall contain all information necessary for the Board to act
intelligently upon the application.
(1989 Code, § 11-41; 2003 Code, § 4-5.2)
§ 4-5.3 SAME—DENIAL.
   The Board shall not issue a license to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating
liquors or narcotic drugs; and/or
   (B)   Who is not a citizen and resident of the state.
(1989 Code, § 11-42; 2003 Code, § 4-5.3)
§ 4-5.4 SAME—FORM AND CONTENT; DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this article shall specify the
premises for which it is issued, the number of tables or alleys to be operated
thereunder, the name of the owner or operator, and the dates upon which the
license begins and expires.
   (B)   The license shall be posted in a prominent place on the premises at
all times.
(1989 Code, § 11-43; 2003 Code, § 4-5.4)
§ 4-5.5 SAME—REVOCATION.
   A second conviction of a licensee, or licensee's agents or employees, for
any violation of any provision of this article shall by operation of law
constitute an automatic revocation of the license of that licensee. In
addition, the Board may, at any time, for cause and after a hearing of which
the licensee shall be given the reasonable notice as the Board may direct
revoke any license issued pursuant to this article.
(1989 Code, § 11-44; 2003 Code, § 4-5.5)
§ 4-5.6 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Neither licensee under this article, nor licensee’s employees, shall employ,
in carrying on the business, any person who has been convicted of unlawfully
selling alcoholic beverages, as defined by the state’s general statutes, or
narcotic drugs.
(1989 Code, § 11-45; 2003 Code, § 4-5.6) (Amended 7-28-2003; Amended 7-6-2010;
Amended 3-5-2013)
§ 4-5.7 RULES FOR OPERATION OF POOL AND BILLIARD ROOMS.
   (A)   A pool or billiard room shall be defined as an establishment open to
the public containing amusement devices devoted to or used in connection with
the playing of pool, billiards or snooker where a fee is charged which is
directly or indirectly conditioned upon or related to the playing of any such
game. Establishments which provide three or more pool, billiards or snooker
tables shall be considered a poolroom or billiards room.
   (B)   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of pool and
billiard rooms.
      (1)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 10:00 a.m. and later
than 1:00 a.m. when the use abuts a residential use or a residentially zoned
lot. The restriction shall not apply where the use is separated from a
residential use or a residentially zoned lot by a major arterial street.
      (2)   No play on any table shall be allowed during the times pool or
billiard rooms are required by this article to remain closed.
      (3)   All pool and billiard rooms shall be operated only on the ground
floor of a building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the
building facing any street, so that a clear view inside may be had from the
street.
      (4)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions
shall be placed between the entrance to the room where pool is played and the
rear wall of the room. A clear view of the interior from the entrance to the
rear of the room must be maintained at all times.
      (5)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures where the
public congregates shall be permitted; provided, however, that, this shall not
be construed so as to prohibit the maintenance of closets used exclusively for
storage purposes, or of toilets.
      (6)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels, stairways
or other devices with any place where gambling is conducted or where persons
meet or congregate for immoral purposes.
(1989 Code, § 11-46; 2003 Code, § 4-5.7) (Amended - -2003; Amended 7-6-2010)
§ 4-5.8 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and conduct of the
licensee.
(1989 Code, § 11-47; 2003 Code, § 4-5.8)
ARTICLE 6: TAXICABS
Section
   
4-6.1   Definitions
   
4-6.2   License—required; expiration; non-transferable
   
4-6.3   Same—application
   
4-6.4   Same—denial
   
4-6.5   Same—form and content; display
   
4-6.6   Same—revocation
   
4-6.7   Proof of financial responsibility
   
4-6.8   Accident reports
   
4-6.9   Passenger doors
   
4-6.10   Prepayment of fares
   
4-6.11   Refusal to carry orderly person
   
4-6.12   Overcharging; overpayment
   
4-6.13   Carrying additional passengers
   
4-6.14   Regular stands; cruising, drop off and pick up
   
4-6.15   Display of information on outside of vehicle
   
4-6.16   Driver's permit required
   
4-6.17   Rates of fare established
   
4-6.18   Vehicles to be in good mechanical condition; inspection of vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 20-37 and 160A-304
§ 4-6.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   OWNER. Any person to whom a business permit has been issued.
   TAXICAB DRIVER. Any person that applies and is issued a valid taxicab driver
permit by the Board of Commissioners.
   TAXICAB. Any for hire passenger vehicle, seating 15 or fewer passengers,
operated upon any street or highway on call or demand, accepting or soliciting
passengers indiscriminately for hire between the points along streets or
highways as may be directed by the passenger or passengers so being
transported, not to include motor vehicle carriers, as defined by statute.
(1989 Code, § 11-70; 2003 Code, § 4-6.1) (Amended 11-3-2015; Amended 7-6-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Definition of taxicab, see G.S. § 20-87
§ 4-6.2 LICENSE—REQUIRED; EXPIRATION; NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate taxicab operation unless the
person shall first have secured a license from the Board to do so.
   (B)   The licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (C)   The licenses shall not be transferable.
(Amended 6-1-2010)
§ 4-6.3 SAME—APPLICATION.
   Application for the license shall be made upon a form provided by the Town
Clerk and shall contain all information necessary for the Board to act
intelligently upon the application. All applicants shall sign a consent form to
allow the Davie County Sheriff’s Office to perform a criminal history check,
CJLEADS Inquiry and a driver's history check of the applicant. The Town Manager
or designee will review the application and will forward a recommendation for
approval or denial of the application to the Board of Commissioners. The final
decision will be determined by the Mocksville Board of Commissioners.
(Amended 6-1-2010; Amended 11-3-2015; Amended 7-6-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 20-37 and 160A-304
§ 4-6.4 SAME—DENIAL.
   The Board shall not issue the license to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted of unlawfully selling or using intoxicating
liquors or narcotic drugs; or
   (B)   Who is not a citizen and resident of the state.
   (C)   Every person applying for a taxi business license under this article
shall be required to hold a valid business permit issued by the town. Prior to
issuance of a permit, each applicant shall show under oath that he or she has
not been convicted of a violation of the laws of this state with respect to
intoxicating liquors, controlled substances, reckless or careless driving or
any misdemeanor or felony involving moral turpitude within the past five years.
In addition, the following factors shall be deemed sufficient grounds for
refusing to issue a permit or for revoking a permit already issued:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against the state, or conviction of any
offense against another state which would have been a felony if committed in
the state:
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
      (5)   Non-citizenship in the United States; and
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
(Amended 6-1-2010; Amended 11-3-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 20-37 and 160A-304
§ 4-6.5 SAME—FORM AND CONTENT; DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this article shall specify the
premises for which it is issued, the number of vehicles to be operated
thereunder, the name of the owner or operator, and the dates upon which the
license begins and expires.
   (B)   The license shall be posted in a prominent place on the premises at
all times.
(Amended 6-1-2010)
§ 4-6.6 SAME—REVOCATION.
   (A)   The following factors shall be deemed sufficient grounds for refusing
to issue a permit or for revoking a permit already issued:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against the state, or conviction of any
offense against another state which would have been a felony if committed in
the state;
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
      (5)   Non-citizenship in the United States; and
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
   (B)   All violations that a business owner or taxi cab driver receives will
be reported to the Town Manager or designee within 48 hours of the offense.
(Amended 6-1-2010; Amended 11-3-2015; Amended 7-6-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 20-37 and 160A-304
§ 4-6.7 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a taxicab within the
municipality unless the person first files proof of financial responsibility
with the Town Clerk. As used in this section, PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
shall mean a certificate of any insurance carrier duly authorized to do
business in the state certifying that there is in effect a policy of liability
insurance insuring the owner and operator of the taxicab business and the
owner's and operator's agents and employees while in the performance of their
duties against loss from any liability imposed by law for damage, including
damages for care and loss of service because of bodily injury to or destruction
of property caused by accident arising out of the ownership, use or operation
of the taxicab or taxicabs, subject to limits (exclusive of interest and cost)
with respect to each motor vehicle as follows:$30,000 because of bodily injury
to or death of one person in any one accident and, subject to the limit for one
person, $60,000 because of bodily injury to or death or two or more persons in
any one accident and $25,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of
others in any one accident.
(1989 Code, § 11-71; 2003 Code, § 4-6.2) (Amended 1-2-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-280
§ 4-6.8 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   All accidents from or in connection with the operation of taxicabs shall be
reported immediately to the NC State Highway Patrol (NC SHP). The NC SHP shall
investigate and keep proper records of all accidents in which taxicabs are
involved.
(1989 Code, § 11-72; 2003 Code, § 4-6.3) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-6.9 PASSENGER DOORS.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated upon the streets as a taxicab unless the
motor vehicle is equipped with at least two doors for passengers to enter and
leave the car, exclusive of the doors serving the driver and front passenger
seat.
(1989 Code, § 11-73; 2003 Code, § 4-6.4)
§ 4-6.10 PREPAYMENT OF FARES.
   Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to demand payment of the
legal fare in advance and may refuse employment unless the fare is prepaid.
(1989 Code, § 11-74; 2003 Code, § 4-6.5)
§ 4-6.11 REFUSAL TO CARRY ORDERLY PERSON.
   No driver of a taxicab shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person,
upon request, anywhere in the municipality unless previously engaged or unable
to do so.
(1989 Code, § 11-75; 2003 Code, § 4-6.6)
§ 4-6.12 OVERCHARGING; OVERPAYMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator to charge rates or fares in
excess of any fares established by the Board, or for any passenger to pay the
rates or fares in excess of the fares provided therein, or to refuse to pay
fares as may be charged in accordance therewith.
(1989 Code, § 11-76; 2003 Code, § 4-6.7) (Amended 7-28-2003)
§ 4-6.13 CARRYING ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   No driver of a taxicab shall carry any person other than the passenger first
employing the taxicab, without the consent of the first passenger. The option
of carrying a second passenger will be contingent with the appropriate
insurance coverage for the taxi cab.
(1989 Code, § 11-77; 2003 Code, § 4-6.8) (Amended 11-3-2015)
§ 4-6.14 REGULAR STANDS; CRUISING, DROP OFF AND PICK UP.
   (A)   Every owner of a taxicab licensed under this article shall maintain
within the municipality a regular stand or station from which the taxicabs
shall be operated. This stand shall not be zoned residentially. Every owner
shall post at the station or stand a sign in letters clearly visible for a
distance of ten feet, on which shall be stated the name of the owner of the
vehicle and the hours of the day and night during which the vehicle is
available for public rental. The regular stand or station will be where the
taxicab is located (parked) when not in the process of conducting business. The
posted phone number will be the contact when a taxicab is needed. The taxicab
will not be allowed to cruise or park in a designated parking space for the
purpose of soliciting business or be allowed to cruise. As used in this
section, CRUISING shall mean the movement of unoccupied cabs over the public
streets in search of, or soliciting passengers, for prospective passenger/
passengers for hire. CRUISING does not include unoccupied taxicabs proceeding
to answer a telephone call for taxicab service from an intending passenger, and
taxicabs returning by the most direct route, after having discharged a
passenger, to the garage where such taxicab is housed or to its depot or
terminal nearest to the place of discharge of the passenger.
   (B)   Pick up or drop off of a paying customer. When a paying customer is
being picked up or dropped off it will be done outside of the roadway in a
location that is safe for the customer as well as the motoring traffic. The
taxicab driver will drop the paying customer off at a point that is close to
the intended destination but will do so in a safe manner. If the taxi is in a
parking space for the intention of pick of or drop off, the taxi cab will not
be allowed to park more than the needed time to load or unload a passenger and
the occupants. At no time will the taxi cab impeded the flow of traffic, for
the intent of doing business. It is the taxi cab drivers responsibility to
insure that there is ample room to load and/or unload passengers and items not
to cause any damage to another parked vehicle.
(1989 Code, § 11-78; 2003 Code, § 4-6.9) (Amended 6-1-2010; Amended 11-3-2015)
§ 4-6.15 DISPLAY OF INFORMATION ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   Every taxicab operating upon the streets of the municipality shall have the
name of the owner thereof and, at the owner’s option, the owner’s address and
telephone number, painted in letters or vinyl signage at least three inches in
height upon each side of the main portion of the body in a manner as to be
plainly visible at all times.
(1989 Code, § 11-79; 2003 Code, § 4-6.10; Amended 11-3-2015)
§ 4-6.16 DRIVER'S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person driving a taxicab licensed under this article shall be
required to hold a valid driver’s permit issued by the town along with a valid
North Carolina Drivers License. All applicants shall sign a consent form to
allow the Town Manager or designee to perform a criminal history check, CJLEADS
Inquiry and a driver's history check of the applicant. The Town Manager or
designee will review the application and will forward a recommendation for
approval or denial the application. The final decision will be determined by
the Mocksville Board of Commissioners. In addition, the following factors shall
be deemed sufficient grounds for refusing to issue a permit or for revoking a
permit already issued:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against the state, or conviction of any
offense against another state which would have been a felony if committed in
the state;
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
      (5)   Non-citizenship in the United States; and
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
      (7)   Revocation of North Carolina Driver’s license will result in
revocation of permit.
   (B)   Persistent violations. At any time after the issuance of a permit to
any person to drive a taxicab, the permit may be revoked if the person holding
such permit is found to be persistently violating the provisions of this
article and for any other cause which may be set out by any ordinance in effect
at this time or that may hereafter be adopted by the Board.
   (C)   Attached is an additional schedule of suspensions or revocations of
permit:
Any person convicted for: License will be suspended or revoked for period of:
                                                              License will be
Any person convicted for:                                     suspended or
                                                              revoked for
                                                              period of:
Manslaughter                                                  Permanent
Assault with automobile                                       Permanent
                                                              First offense: 30
                                                              days
                                                              Second offense:
                                                              12 months
Speeding                                                      Third offense:
                                                              permanent
                                                              If a paying
                                                              customer is in
                                                              the vehicle:
                                                              Permanent
                                                              First offense: 12
                                                              months
                                                              Second offense:
Reckless driving                                              permanent
                                                              If a paying
                                                              customer is in
                                                              the vehicle:
                                                              Permanent
                                                              First offense: 12
Transporting alcoholic beverages                              months
                                                              Second offense:
                                                              Permanent
                                                              First offense: 12
Aiding and abetting in the transportation of alcoholic        months
beverages                                                     Second offense:
                                                              Permanent
Violating any of the provisions of the general statutes in    Permanent
regard to prostitution
Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs   Permanent
Any two convictions of violations of any traffic laws or      12 months
regulations or town ordinances withing a 12-month period
Operating after license suspended or revoked and before       Permanent
reinstatement
                                                              First offense: 60
                                                              days
Drivers of taxicabs who cruise or pick up passengers and      Second offense:
charge less than taxi fares                                   12 months
                                                              Third offense:
                                                              Permanent
Felony                                                        Permanent
Violation of federal or state statutes relating to the use,   Permanent
possession, or sale of narcotic drugs
For making false statement in an application for a driver’s Permanent
permit
 
(1989 Code, § 11-80; 2003 Code, § 4-6.11) (Amended 1-2-1996; Amended 7-28-2003;
Amended 11-3-2015; Amended 7-6-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 20-37 and 160A-304
§ 4-6.17 RATES OF FARE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The rates of fare to be charged for taxicab service by any person
operating or controlling any motor vehicle operated as a taxicab within the
municipality may, at the town's discretion, be established by the Board. Any
rates established by the Board shall be available for view in the office of the
Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any taxicab to charge
or collect from any passenger any fare in excess of the rates set by the Board.
   (C)   The driver of the taxicab will be required to maintain a manifest of
all activities. As used in this section, MANIFEST shall mean a daily record,
prepared by the driver or owner, of all trips made by the taxicab which he
operates, showing time and place of origin and destination of each trip and the
amount of fare.
(1989 Code, § 11-81; 2003 Code, § 4-6.12) (Amended 7-28-2003; Amended 11-3-
2015)
§ 4-6.18 VEHICLES TO BE IN GOOD MECHANICAL CONDITION; INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   All taxicabs operated within the municipality shall be kept in good
mechanical condition at all times and the owner or operator shall have the
vehicles inspected from time to time and at regular intervals by an experienced
and competent automobile mechanic. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate any vehicles for the transportation of passengers for hire, when same
is not in good mechanical condition.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner and/or driver of any taxicab to have
the same inspected immediately at any time ordered to do so by the Town Manager
or other law enforcement officer of the municipality, and it shall be unlawful
to operate the vehicle when so ordered, until it has been inspected, and all
necessary repairs made, which inspection shall be made at the expense of the
owner or operator.
   (C)   Alcohol in the taxicab. No alcohol will be permitted in the taxicab.
   (D)   No smoking in a taxicab. No smoking will be permitted in any vehicle
approved by the Mocksville Board of Commissioners to operate as a taxicab.
   (E)   Lost articles. Every driver shall thoroughly search his taxicab at the
termination of each trip for lost articles which may be left in the cab by
passengers. An article found shall he immediately returned to its rightful
owner, if known; otherwise, it shall be deposited with the owner or operator of
cabs and shall, within 24 hours, be reported and turned over to the inspector
of taxicabs.
(1989 Code, § 11-90; 2003 Code, § 4-6.13) (Amended 11-3-2015; Amended 7-6-2021)
ARTICLE 7: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
4-7.1   Definition
   
4-7.2   General retail sales prohibited
§ 4-7.1 DEFINITION.
   The term GARAGE SALE, as used in this article, refers to a sale from a
residence or residential property of personal property which has been owned or
used previously by an individual or resident residing on the premises where the
sale is conducted. A yard or patio sale is included within the definition of
GARAGE SALE. The term GARAGE SALE does not include the mere incidental sale of
one or two items of personal property when the sale is not a part of general
sale of a number of items of personal property.
(1989 Code, § 11-100; 2003 Code, § 4-7.1)
§ 4-7.2 GENERAL RETAIL SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in
residential areas is, except as is otherwise expressly authorized under this
code, prohibited.
   (B)   Garage sales are permitted only insofar as they are conducted
consistent with the limitations set forth below.
      (1)   Not more than two garage sales shall be conducted on the premises
in any calendar year; provided, however, that, a third garage sale shall be
permitted if satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the real
property is first presented to the Clerk or Clerk's duly authorized
representative. No single sale shall be conducted for longer than two
consecutive weekends or 72 hours, whichever is lesser. Garage sales may be
conducted during daylight hours only.
      (2)   Personal property offered for sale at a garage sale may be
displayed on a driveway, in a garage and/or in a rear yard, but only in those
areas. No personal property offered for sale at a garage sale shall be
displayed in any front yard area or in any public right-of-way.
      (3)   Except as provided below, signs used in conjunction with garage
sales shall be displayed only on the premises upon which the garage sale is
conducted. Two off-site directional signs may be permitted by the Clerk;
provided that, the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted is not on a
major thoroughfare, and written permission to erect the signs is received from
the property owners on whose property the signs are to be placed. Signs may be
displayed only during the hours the garage sale is actively being conducted and
must be removed at the close of the garage sale activities or by the end of
daylight, whichever first occurs each day. No signs may be placed in the public
right-of-way.
      (4)   A non-profit organization or association of persons may conduct a
garage sale at the residence of one or more of its members pursuant to all of
the requirements of this article. One garage sale may be held per year without
the sale being deemed one chargeable to the premises in question for the
purposes of applying the two sales per year limitation set forth in subsection
(A)(1) above.
      (5)   No garage sale shall be held so as to include more than one
residence or parcel as the site of sale unless a permit is first obtained from
the Clerk or his or her authorized representative.
(1989 Code, § 11-101; 2003 Code, § 4-7.2)
ARTICLE 8: LICENSE TAX ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS
Section
   
4-8.1   Purpose
   
4-8.2   Definitions
   
4-8.3   Licensing of electronic gaming establishment operators
   
4-8.4   Posting of license
   
4-8.5   Notice and hearing as to revocation of license
   
4-8.6   Hours of operation
   
4-8.7   License annual
   
4-8.8   Enforcement-generally
   
4-8.9   Same-inspections
§ 4-8.1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to regulate electronic gaming
electronic gaming businesses, to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
for electronic gaming businesses.
   (B)   It is not the intent nor effect of this article to in any way condone
or legitimize the use of electronic games, as defined below, to minors.
   (C)   It is not the intent or the effect of this article to in any way
condone or legitimize the use of electronic games, as they may be proscribed by
the General Statutes or the courts. The Board of Commissioners takes no
position as to whether electronic gaming is legal in North Carolina. If
electronic gaming is legal, compliance with this section and the town’s land
use regulations are required.
(Adopted 1-7-2020; Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-8.2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION OR ESTABLISHMENT. Any business enterprise,
whether as a principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic
machines, including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to
conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether the value
of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. Electronic gaming operations may include, but are not
limited to, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines/
operations, or cybercafes. This does not include any lottery approved by the
State of North Carolina or any nonprofit operation that is otherwise lawful
under State law (for example, church or civic organization fundraisers).
(Adopted 1-7-2020)
§ 4-8.3 LICENSING OF ELECTRONIC GAMING ESTABLISHMENT OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an electronic gaming establishment, either as
a principal or accessory use, as herein defined, unless the person shall have
first applied for and received the license provided by this article.
   (B)   Every application for the license prescribed herein shall be upon a
form approved and filed with the Town Manager. Every application shall be made
under oath and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of the
person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or association, the
registered name of the agent and the address of the registered office and the
name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the electronic gaming
establishment business shall be located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for any felony, or gambling or
any violation of the law relative to gambling;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit, of
any license to operate an electronic gaming establishment held by any person
whose name is required to be given in division (B)(1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(1) above for violation of any statute,
law, article or regulation of any government concerning the operation of an
electronic gaming establishment;
      (6)   The name and address of any electronic gaming establishment or
other establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to
be given in division (B)(1) above wherein the business of electronic gaming
establishment is carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall transmit a copy of the application to the Davie
County Sheriff’s Office for an investigative report and to determine compliance
with any law relating to fire protection; and to Davie County to determine
compliance with all zoning and building regulations and articles. The Davie
County Sheriff’s Office shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days,
report the results of its examination to the Town Manager.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required by
this article, shall be submitted to the Town Manager or designee, who shall
approve the application, if the Town Manager determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving, including, but not limited to, G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 37, (Lotteries,
Gaming, Bingos and Raffles), or of any violation of any law or article of any
governmental unit concerning or related to the business of gaming;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable Zoning,
Building and Fire Prevention Codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application had a previously issued license for engaging in the business of
electronic gaming establishment revoked.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Manager, and upon receipt
of a charge determined annually by the Board of Commissioners in the schedule
of fees, the Town Manager shall issue a license to applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this article shall be revoked by action
of the Town Manager if the Town Manager determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of this article;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant's business, any person practicing the
business or profession of electronic gaming who has not been issued the license
required by this article, or whose license under the article has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee, is convicted of any crime involving gambling or gaming, including
but not limited to G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 37; or
      (4)   The licensee violates any Zoning, Building or Fire Prevention Code
article.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this article is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating an electronic gaming establishment at the location
required to be stated in the application for license pursuant to division (B)
(2) of this article.
(Adopted 1-7-2020; Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-8.4 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every business engaged in electronic gaming shall post the license
required by this article in his or her work area.
   (B)   Every business licensed under this article shall display the license
in a prominent place.
(Adopted 1-7-2020)
§ 4-8.5 NOTICE AND HEARING AS TO REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Before the Town Manager revokes a license issued pursuant to this article,
or if the Town Manager determines reasonable grounds exist to deny an
application for a license pursuant to this article, the Town Manager shall
cause a written notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee affected or
applicant affected, at the address stated in the license or application. This
notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before the Town
Manager, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place, for the
purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or denial, and
for the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or cross-
examining any person providing the evidence.
(Adopted 1-7-2020; Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-8.6 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed hereunder shall engage in the business or
profession of electronic gaming entertainment before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00
midnight.
   (B)   No person licensed hereunder shall admit customers or prospective
customers, or remain open for business, before 8:00 a.m. or after midnight.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing an electronic gaming establishment
upon the premises shall allow, permit or condone the violation of divisions (A)
or (B) of this section.
(Adopted 1-7-2020)
§ 4-8.7 LICENSE ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this article are annual licenses. The licenses
required under this article are in addition to all other licenses and/or
permits that an applicant is required to obtain pursuant to the ordinance of
the town.
(Adopted 1-7-2020)
§ 4-8.8 ENFORCEMENT-GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to periodically inspect the
premises of any permittee under this article, to determine any violations of
its provisions, and to otherwise enforce this article.
(Adopted 1-7-2020; Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 4-8.9 SAME-INSPECTIONS.
   Officials of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office and other authorized
municipal officials shall, from time to time, inspect of each electronic gaming
establishment for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this
article any applicable state laws are complied with. Authorized officials shall
have access to the premises of each establishment during hours of operation for
inspection purposes.
(Adopted 1-7-2020; Amended 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER V: PUBLIC SAFETY
      Article
         
1.   STATES OF EMERGENCY
         
2.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
         
3.   BUILDING CODES ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION
         
4.   HOUSING AND BUILDING CODE
         
5.   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
         
6.   ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
         
7.   [RESERVED]
         
8.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE 1: STATES OF EMERGENCY
Section
   
5-1.1   State of emergency; restriction authorized
   
5-1.2   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
5-1.3   Evacuation
   
5-1.4   Curfew
   
5-1.5   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
5-1.6   Restriction on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
5-1.7   Restrictions on access to areas
   
5-1.8   Prohibitions or restrictions
   
5-1.9   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
5-1.10   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
5-1.11   Termination of proclamation
   
5-1.12   In case of absence or disability of Mayor
   
5-1.13   Penalty for violation
   
5-1.14   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
   
5-1.15   Territorial applicability
   
5-1.16   Validity
   
5-1.17   Form and content of proclamation
   
5-1.18   Proclamation terminating a state of emergency
§ 5-1.1 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist during times of public
crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for any
reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford
adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the occurrence
of any condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the
Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. § 14-288.12 and
G.S. § 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect
the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect any or all
of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation of the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours
of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare
needs of people within the town.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.1) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.2 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor of the town, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions
and restrictions specified in §§
5-1.3. through
5-1.11. of this article in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor
may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or
she finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable
level of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property.
The Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   (1)   The proclamation shall be in writing.
      (2)   The Mayor shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms
of the proclamation to those affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the
County Courthouse and in public places within the town. The Mayor shall, as
soon as possible, send reports of the substance of the proclamation to the
Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners, or designee; and to the mass
communications media which serves the affected area. The Mayor shall retain a
text of the proclamation, and furnish upon request, certified copies of it.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.2) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.3 EVACUATION.
   (A)   The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the town, to prescribe routes, modes of transportation and
destination in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress of
a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of
premises therein.
   (B)   Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a subsequent
proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.3) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.4 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.4) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.5 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage, including beer, wine and spirituous liquor other than on one's own
premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of
any alcoholic beverage within the town. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply
to transfers of alcoholic beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control
stores as well as by anyone else within the geographical area described.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.5) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.6 RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one's own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public's health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(C), gasoline or
other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate some probability that the instrument or substance will
be so used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that a part or ingredient
will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or the part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in G.S. §
14-288.7.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.6) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.7 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   (1)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be
designated by the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates or other law
enforcement officer when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor.
      (2)   When acting under this authority, law enforcement officers may
restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway or location within the
town if that restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to
promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further
aggravation of the emergency.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.7) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.8 PROHIBITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions, the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.8) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.9 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Town Board.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.9) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.10 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this article in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedure set forth
in §
5-1.2.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.10) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.11 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this article shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedure
set forth in §
5-1.2. for proclamations.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.11) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.12 IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor pro tem or
another person as may be designated by the Town Board shall have and exercise
all of the powers herein given the Mayor.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.12) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.13 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   The violation of the provisions of this article shall subject the offender
to criminal prosecution, injunctive relief or orders of abatement as afforded
to the town under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and §
1.8 of this code for the enforcement of articles.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.13) (Adopted 2-2-1993; Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 5-1.14 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances in conflict with the provisions of this article are hereby
repealed.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.14) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.15 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply only within the corporate limits of the
municipality or within any area over which the municipality has jurisdiction to
enact general police power articles.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.15) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.16 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article is
for any reason held to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this article. The Town Board hereby declares that
it would have passed this article and each section, subsection, clause and
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(2003 Code, § 5-1.16) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.17 FORM AND CONTENT OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation for the declaration of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the following form:
Section 1. Pursuant to Chapter 166A and Chapter 14, Article 36A of the General
Statutes, I have determined that a state of emergency as defined exists in the
Town of Mocksville.
Section 2. I, therefore, proclaim the existence of a state of emergency in the
Town of Mocksville.
Section 3. I hereby order all law enforcement officers and employees, and all
other emergency management workers subject to my control to cooperate in the
enforcement and implementation of the provisions of the town emergency articles,
which are set forth below:
   Evacuation: I have determined that, in the best interest of public safety and
protection, it is necessary to evacuate the civilian population from the
_____________________ areas of the Town of Mocksville. Citizens are free to use
any type of transportation, but they are to use only (routes)
_____________________ in leaving the county. Evacuation is to occur as soon as
possible. Further proclamations concerning the evacuation will be issued as
needed.
   Curfew: Unless a member of a law enforcement agency or the emergency
management program, every person who is located within the Town of Mocksville is
to be inside a house dwelling from the hours of __________ to ______________.
   No Alcoholic Beverages: There shall be no sale, consumption, transportation or
possession of alcoholic beverages during the state of emergency in the Town of
Mocksville, except possession or consumption is allowed on a person's own
premises.
   No Firearms, Ammunition or Explosives: During the state of emergency, there
shall be no sale or purchase of any type of firearm or ammunition, or any
possession of such items along with any type of explosive off owner's premises.
   Restrictions on Access to Areas: During the state of emergency, there shall be
no access or attempting to obtain access to any area which has been barricaded,
or otherwise clearly posted indicating that access is denied or restricted by law
enforcement officers.
   Execution of Emergency Plan: All civilians and emergency management workers
are ordered to comply with the emergency operations plan.
Section 4. This proclamation shall become effective immediately. Proclaimed this
the ______ day of ____________, 20__________ at _______________.
                  ______________________________________
                  Mayor, Town of Mocksville
                  Seal of the Town
 
(2003 Code, § 5-1.17) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
§ 5-1.18 PROCLAMATION TERMINATING A STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The proclamation for the termination of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the following form:
Section 1. On ____________, at ____________ (a.m./p.m.), I determined and
proclaimed a local state of emergency for the Town of Mocksville.
Section 2. On _____________, at _____________ (a.m./p.m.), I ordered the
evacuation of all civilians from the area; imposed a curfew, prohibited the
sale, consumption, transportation, or possession of alcoholic beverages;
prohibited the sale or purchase of any type of firearm or ammunition,
firearms, ammunition and explosives; restricted access to areas and ordered
the execution of the emergency operation plan.
Section 3. I have determined that a state of emergency no longer exists in the
Town of Mocksville.
Section 4. I thereby terminate the proclamation of a local state of emergency
and all of the restrictions and orders therein.
Section 5. This proclamation is effective immediately. Proclaimed this the
________________ day of ___________, 20___ at ___________ (a.m./p.m.).
                  ______________________________________
                  Mayor, Town of Mocksville
                  Seal of the Town
 
(2003 Code, § 5-1.18) (Adopted 2-2-1993)
ARTICLE 2: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
5-2.1   Definitions
   
5-2.2   Same—enforcement
   
5-2.3   Same—control and prohibition
   
5-2.4   Same—burning purpose for fire training
   
5-2.5   Same—adoption of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire
Prevention Code by reference
Cross-reference:
   Condemnation of abandoned structures, see §§
5-4.7 et seq.
   Creation of noise by squibs and the like, see §
7-5.2(Q)
   Fire limits, see §
5-3.12
§ 5-2.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   ACQUIRED STRUCTURE. A structure requested by the property owner to be used
for the purposes of live fire training.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. Any substance which when ignited will burn in air.
   FIRE OFFICIAL. For the purpose of Fire Code enforcement, FIRE OFFICIAL shall
include the County Fire Marshal, when certified and the Town Fire Chief or
approved designee.
   GARBAGE. Any animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire wherein the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere and are not directed thereto through a
stack or chimney, approved incinerator or other similar device.
   REFUSE. Solid or liquid wastes from residences and dwellings, commercial
establishments and institutions.
   TRADE WASTE. All solid, liquid or gaseous waste, waste materials or rubbish
resulting from combustion, salvage operations, building operations or the
perpetration of any business, trade or industry, including, but not limited to,
plastic products, paper, wood, glass, metal, paint, greases, oil and other
petroleum products, chemicals and ashes.
(1989 Code, § 8-1; 2003 Code, § 5-2.1) (Amended 8-6-1991; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 5-2.2 SAME—ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Official is charged with the duty of investigating, preventing and
abating causes of air pollution and enforcing the provisions of G.S. § 143-215
along with the regulations herein. Any person found to be in willful violation
of this article may be held financially/civilly responsible for any cost/damage
incurred from the results of the violation. Including, but not limited to, cost
of extinguishment both labor and equipment. Any fines incurred/charged shall be
at the recommendation of the State Division of Air Quality or a result of non-
compliance with cleanup after a scheduled training burn. County Development
Services will collect and account for other required fees.
(1989 Code, § 8-2; 2003 Code, § 5-2.2) (Amended 8-6-1991; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 5-2.3 SAME—CONTROL AND PROHIBITION.
   (A)   This regulation is for the purpose of preventing, abating and
controlling air pollution resulting from air contaminants released by the open
burning of refuse or other combustible material and to reduce the potential for
loss of life or property from a hostile fire event. Cooking of food such as,
but not limited to, camp fires or outdoor grilling shall be exempt.
   (B)   No person shall cause, suffer or permit open burning of refuse or
other combustible material within town limits.
   (C)   The open burning of yard waste shall be prohibited within the town
limits.
(1989 Code, § 8-3; 2003 Code, § 5-2.3; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed 2-1-
2025)
Cross-reference:
   Burning garbage prohibited, permit to burn refuse, see §
6-3.8
§ 5-2.4 SAME—BURNING PURPOSE FOR FIRE TRAINING.
   The Fire Official shall have the authority to authorize and conduct live
fire training in acquired structures with written requests and agreement for
removal of remaining debris from property owners within the Town Fire District.
Documentation of any such event shall be the responsibility of the Fire
Official or designee and shall be in accordance with all local and state
regulations. Documentation shall be maintained at the town fire station for a
period of seven years after the completion of the burn. The property owner
shall be responsible for the cleanup of the burn site and must complete same
within 90 days of the completion of the training burn unless circumstances
approved by the Fire Official require an extension. Failure to do so within the
allotted time frame may result in a fine of $100 per day.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 5-2.5 SAME—ADOPTION OF THE NORTH CAROLINA STATE BUILDING CODE: FIRE
PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
chapter all of the North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code as
adopted by the N.C. State Building Code Council, including all technical codes
adopted by reference and Appendix(ces). Copies of the Fire Prevention Code, and
all technical codes and standards adopted by reference, shall be available for
public inspection on the Town of Mocksville website.
   (B)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the North Carolina State Building Code Council
shall be effective in the town at the time such amendments become a part of
North Carolina State Building Code: Fire Prevention Code.
(Adopted 6-1-2021)
ARTICLE 3: BUILDING CODES AND INSPECTION
Section
   
5-3.1   Inspection function
   
5-3.2   Reserved
   
5-3.3   Reserved
   
5-3.4   Reserved
   
5-3.5   Scope of chapter and codes
   
5-3.6   Street or alley lines
   
5-3.7   Inspections—oversight not to legalize violation
   
5-3.8   Reserved
   
5-3.9   Enforcement of Uniform Standards Code for manufactured homes
   
5-3.10   Reserved
   
5-3.11   Zoning ordinance compliance required
   
5-3.12   Fire limits
   
5-3.13   Reserved
   
5-3.14   Reserved
   
5-3.15   House moving
   
5-3.16   Building Code adopted
   
5-3.17   Plumbing Code adopted
   
5-3.18   Mechanical Code adopted
   
5-3.19   Electrical Code adopted
   
5-3.20   Residential Building Code
   
5-3.21   Reserved
   
5-3.22   Administration Code and Policies
   
5-3.23   Fire Prevention Code
   
5-3.24   Existing Buildings Code
   
5-3.25   Manufactured Homes
   
5-3.26   International Property Maintenance Code
   
5-3.27   Compliance with codes
   
5-3.28   Construction sites
   
5-3.29   Permits required
   
5-3.30   Application
   
5-3.31   Plans and specifications
   
5-3.32   Revocation
   
5-3.33   Reserved
   
5-3.34   Time limitations on validity
   
5-3.35   Changes in work
   
5-3.36   Fees
Cross-reference:
   Creation of noise in building operation restricted, see §
7-5.2(I)
   Removal of scrap building materials, see §
6-3.6
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of fire limits, see G.S. § 160A-435
§ 5-3.1 INSPECTION FUNCTION.
   The Town of Mocksville contracts with Davie County to provide building
inspections in the town's jurisdiction.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.2 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.3 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.4 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.5 SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this article and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1989 Code, § 4-5; 2003 Code, § 5-3.5) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.6 STREET OR ALLEY LINES.
   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or structure
on the line of any street, alley or other public place, the applicant shall
secure a survey of the line of the street, alley or other public place,
adjacent to the property upon which the building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with construction of the building or structure. It shall be
the duty of the County Building Inspector and/or County Planner to see that the
building does not encroach upon the street, alley or other public place.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.7 INSPECTIONS—OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the town or county shall be deemed to legalize the
violation of any provision of this article, or any provision of any regulatory
code herein adopted.
(1989 Code, § 4-7; 2003 Code, § 5-3.7) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.8 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.9 ENFORCEMENT OF UNIFORM STANDARDS CODE FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The Inspection Department shall be responsible for enforcing the North
Carolina Uniform Standards Code for Manufactured Homes (G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9B),
including any design and construction standards incorporated therein by
reference.
(1989 Code, § 4-9; 2003 Code, § 5-3.9) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.10 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.11 ZONING ORDINANCE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No permit for alteration, repair or construction of any building or
structure shall be issued unless the plans and specifications show that the
building or structure, and its proposed use, will be in compliance with the
applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   No permit for alteration, repair or construction of any building or
structure shall be issued until a zoning permit has first been issued by the
appropriate official charged with enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
(1989 Code, § 4-11; 2003 Code, § 5-3.11) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.12 FIRE LIMITS.
   A true and accurate description of the town fire limits shall be maintained
on file and open to public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1989 Code, § 4-12; 2003 Code, § 5-3.12) (Amended 11-2-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions within primary and secondary fire limits, see G.S. §§ 160A-436
through 160A-438
§ 5-3.13 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.14 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.15 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any building upon or across the public streets or
sidewalks without the written consent of the Director of the Public Works
Department, and the deposit of a good and sufficient bond to cover damage done
to any street or sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(1989 Code, § 4-15; 2003 Code, § 5-3.15) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.16 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted and amended by the State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein in its entirety.
(1989 Code, § 4-20; 2003 Code, § 5-3.16) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.17 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Plumbing Code, as adopted and amended by the State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein in its entirety.
(1989 Code, § 4-21; 2003 Code, § 5-3.17) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.18 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Mechanical Code, as adopted and amended by the State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein in its entirety.
(1989 Code, § 4-22; 2003 Code, § 5-3.18) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.19 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted and amended by the State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein in its entirety.
(1989 Code, § 4-23; 2003 Code, § 5-3.19) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.20 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The latest editions of the North Carolina residential building codes, as
adopted and amended by the State Building Code Council, are hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein in its entirety.
(1989 Code, § 4-24; 2003 Code, § 5-3.20) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.21 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.22 ADMINISTRATION CODE AND POLICIES.
   The North Carolina State Building Code: Administration Code and Policies, as
adopted and amended by the State Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein in its entirety.
(2003 Code, § 5-3.21) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.23 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The North Carolina Fire Prevention Code, as adopted and amended by the State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein in its entirety.
(2003 Code, § 5-3.22) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.24 EXISTING BUILDINGS CODE.
   The North Carolina Existing Buildings Code, as adopted and amended by the
State Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though
set forth herein in its entirety.
(2003 Code, § 5-3.24) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.25 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes, as adopted and
amended by the State Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein in its entirety, including the portions of the
U.S. Administrative Code applicable to manufactured homes, as administered by
Manufactured Building Division of the Office of State Fire Marshall, North
Carolina Department of Insurance.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.26 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code (latest edition), as written and
amended by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein in its entirety.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.27 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures except for manufactured homes which are
hereafter constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged,
repaired, demolished or moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum
standards, and other provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code).
   (E)   All manufactured homes shall comply with North Carolina Regulations
for Manufactured Homes and all applicable town ordinances.
   (F)   Buildings and structures shall be maintained to the standards found in
the International Property Maintenance Code.
(1989 Code, § 4-25; 2003 Code, § 5-3.25) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.28 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   All construction contractors shall provide on-site refuse receptacles,
bulk containers or detachable containers for construction debris and other
trash which is capable of being moved or blown about by the wind, and which is
produced by those working on the site. All materials shall be containerized by
the end of each day, and shall be kept in a reasonably clean and litter free
condition. Construction debris and refuse deposited upon any public or private
property as a result of construction or demolition shall be immediately removed
by the contractor. Construction sites shall be kept clean and orderly at all
times.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
article shall be enforced as provided in §
1.8 of the Code of Ordinances.
(2003 Code, § 5-3.27) (Adopted 8-5-1997; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.29 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit
therefor from the County Building Inspector.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the County Building Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Mechanical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating or cooling
equipment system without a written permit from the County Building Inspector;
provided, however, that no permit shall be required for minor repairs or minor
burner services or filter replacements of warm air furnaces or cooling systems.
   (D)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from the
County Building Inspector; provided, however, that no permit shall be required
for minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed.
(1989 Code, § 4-30; 2003 Code, § 5-3.28) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.30 APPLICATION.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this article
and shall be made on forms provided by the County Building Inspector.
(1989 Code, § 4-31; 2003 Code, § 5-3.29) (Amended 11-2-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Contents of application, see §§ 8-3.9.3 et seq.
§ 5-3.31 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
a permit as required by the County Building Inspector.
   (B)   Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the same shall
be kept at the work site until all authorized operations have been completed
and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1989 Code, § 4-32; 2003 Code, § 5-3.30) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.32 REVOCATION.
   The appropriate County Inspector may revoke and require the return of any
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this article and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(1989 Code, § 4-35; 2003 Code, § 5-3.33) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.33 RESERVED.
§ 5-3.34 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY.
   All permits issued under this article shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit, which has expired, shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(1989 Code, § 4-36; 2003 Code, § 5-3.34) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.35 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this article or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of those changes or deviations have been obtained from the appropriate
County Inspector.
(1989 Code, § 4-37; 2003 Code, § 5-3.35) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-3.36 FEES.
   (A)   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the town as determined by the appropriate County Inspector or Inspectors.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be set by Davie County and shall be collected by
Davie County.
(1989 Code, § 4-38; 2003 Code, § 5-3.36) (Amended 11-2-2021)
ARTICLE 4: HOUSING AND BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
5-4.1   Title
   
5-4.2   Intent and findings of the Town Board of Commissioners
   
5-4.3   Purpose and scope
   
5-4.4   Owner’s responsibilities generally
   
5-4.5   Occupant’s responsibilities generally
   
5-4.6   Conditions rendering residential buildings unfit for human habitation
   
5-4.7   Declaration of unsafe non-residential building or structure
   
5-4.8   Unlawful to rent or occupy property after expiration of time limits
under any orders issued pursuant to this article
   
5-4.9   Unauthorized removal of orders, notices
   
5-4.10   Definitions
   
5-4.11   Chapter supplemental; alternative remedies
Administration and Enforcement
   
5-4.20   Duties and powers of enforcing agent
   
5-4.21   Preliminary investigation; issuance of complain; hearing
   
5-4.22   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
5-4.23   Determination, issuance of order after hearing
   
5-4.24   Failure to comply with order; Council may consider ordinance enforcing
order
   
5-4.25   Remedies; appeal by owner to superior court
   
5-4.26   Summary ejectment if occupants fail to obey order or ordinance to
vacate
   
5-4.27   Emergency enforcement
   
5-4.28   Penalties and fees
   
5-4.29   Collection of costs
Minimum Standards
   
5-4.40   International Property Maintenance Code; certain chapters and index
adopted as minimum standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 5-4.1 TITLE.
   This article shall be known, and cited as, as the "Minimum Housing and
Unsafe Building Code" and may be referred to herein as "this article".
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.2 INTENT AND FINDINGS OF THE TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that the existence and occupation of
dwellings in this town's jurisdiction that are unfit for human habitation are
inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and
morals of the people of the town, and that a public necessity exists for the
repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings. Whenever this town finds that
there exists in the town dwellings that are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other
conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or
detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare
of the residents of the town; and
   (B)   It is hereby found that when there exists within the town's
jurisdiction structures which the Board of Commissioners find to be hazardous
to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town due to the
attraction of insects, snakes and/or rodents or conditions creating a fire
hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children
or conditions creating frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-1129 and
160D-1201 to exercise its police powers to repair, close or demolish the
dwellings in the manner herein provided; and pursuant to the authority granted
by G.S. §§ 160A-193, 160D-1129 and 160D-1201, it is the further intent of this
article to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of any such unsafe or
unsanitary dwellings, and abandoned structures in accordance with the
provisions as are set forth in this article for the repair, closing or
demolition of dwellings and/or structures, and to establish minimum standards
of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for
human habitation.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.3 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this article is to stop, remedy and prevent the decay
and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing minimum requirements for dwellings for the
protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of the owners and
occupants of dwellings and the general public.
   (B)   Additionally, the purpose of this article is to stop, remedy and
prevent the decay and deterioration of places of non-residential buildings and
structures for the protection of life, health, safety, welfare and property of
the owners and occupants of non-residential buildings and the general public.
   (C)   The provisions of this article apply to all residential buildings, and
their accessory structures, all non-residential buildings and non-residential
structures within the town as now or may later be fixed. Demountable buildings
or structures when used, or intended to be used, for human habitation, shall be
subject to the applicable provisions of this article.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.4 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   An owner remains liable for duties imposed by this article even
though:
      (1)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupants; or
      (2)   The owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant(s) the duty of
furnishing required equipment or complying with this article.
   (B)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (C)   In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for the availability of
rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to §§
5-4.21 et seq. that violations of this article were caused solely by a tenant
(s) or tenants' guests. Owners are responsible for ensuring that the dwelling
or building is brought into compliance with this article.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.5 OCCUPANT'S RESPONSIBILITIES GENERALLY.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall:
   (A)   Cleanliness. Keep that part of his or her dwelling and dwelling unit
and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls in a clean and
sanitary condition;
   (B)   Rubbish and garbage. Dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in
a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities;
   (C)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Keep all supplied plumbing fixtures
therein in a sanitary condition and be responsible for the exercise of
reasonable care in the proper use and operation of same;
   (D)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. Not destroy, deface, or
impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any part of the structure of a
dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.6 CONDITIONS RENDERING RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all other applicable requirements
of this article.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all other applicable requirements of this article.
   (C)   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit. The inspector will
determine that a residential building is unfit for human habitation if any of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters,
or other structural members list, lean or buckle, and/or are rotten,
deteriorated, or damaged, and/or have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents. Supporting members are not adequate if 33% or more are damaged or
deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or coverings are not
adequate if 55% or more are damaged or deteriorated;
      (2)   Floors or roofs have inadequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Supporting members are not adequate if
33% or more are damaged or deteriorated. Non-supporting, enclosing or outside
walls or covering are not adequate if 55% or more are damaged or deteriorated;
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
are deteriorated or damaged;
      (4)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts and appurtenances
are maintained in such condition that they will fail or collapse;
      (5)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic are not
provided;
      (6)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets, and hallways are
not furnished of suitable materials, which will by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and are not maintained in such
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces;
      (7)   The roof, flashing, exterior walls, floors, and all doors and
windows exposed to the weather are not constructed and maintained so as to be
weather and watertight;
      (8)   Chimneys or parts thereof are defective, deteriorated or in danger
of falling, or in such condition or location as to constitute a fire hazard;
      (9)   The ground is used for floors, or wood floors are on the ground.
   (D)   Irrespective of subsection (A) above, the enforcing agent shall find
residential dwelling units to be unfit for human habitation if a dwelling unit
contains more than five separate types of violations of any of the minimum
standards set forth in this article.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.7 DECLARATION OF UNSAFE NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Every structure within the town's jurisdiction shall be deemed in
violation of this article whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the
health, safety or welfare of the town citizens. The enforcing agent may declare
a non-residential structure or building to be unsafe as a result of:
      (1)   Vacancy or abandonment;
      (2)   Dilapidated conditions causing or contributing to blight, disease
and/or safety hazards;
      (3)   The attraction of insects, rodents and/or snakes including the
collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which might attract
rodents, snakes and/or insects or become breeding places for rodents, snakes
and/or insects;
      (4)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (5)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, such as the
use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by children as a play
area, or violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger to
children using the structure or facilities as a play area;
      (6)   Repeated use of such structure in the absence of sanitary
facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating;
      (7)   In violation of the State Building Code, or the State Electrical
Code or the Fire Prevention Code which constitutes a fire hazard in such
structure, or the International Property Management Code as adopted by the town
in §
5-4.40.
      (8)   Violation of the standards established by the town in this article.
   (B)   It is the policy of the Board of Commissioners to encourage property
owners to secure unoccupied buildings from entry temporarily, until the
building may be repaired or demolished. It shall be no defense to the
enforcement of this article that an unoccupied building has been secured from
entry by boarding up the doors, windows or other entry points. If a building
remains unoccupied and boarded up for a period of more than one year, it shall
be taken as evidence that the owner(s) have abandoned the intent and purpose to
repair, alter or improve the building.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.8 UNLAWFUL TO RENT OR OCCUPY PROPERTY AFTER EXPIRATION OF TIME LIMITS
UNDER ANY ORDERS ISSUED PURSUANT TO THIS ARTICLE.
   (A)   If any order issued and served in accordance with this article
requires that a dwelling or dwelling unit be closed and vacated and said order
is not complied with within the time specified therein, it shall be unlawful
for any person that had knowledge of the issuance of the order to occupy any
portion of the building under order for any purpose.
   (B)   When the enforcing agent finds that a building is unfit for human
habitation within the meaning of this article and has notified the owner to
such effect and the time limit set by the inspector for the correction of
defects and vacating same has expired, it shall be unlawful for any person
(including, but not limited to, owner or owner's agent) to receive rentals,
offer for rent, or occupy said building/dwelling unit for any purpose.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.9 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF ORDERS, NOTICES.
   No person, without the written consent of the Town Manager or designee,
shall remove or permit the removal of any complaint, notice or order posted in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.10 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this article.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an adequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED. That a dwelling may be unfit for human habitation and can
be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this article at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. That a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
improved, repaired, or altered to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this article except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by the inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home or
part thereof which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping or habitation by human occupants and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it
does not include any manufactured home of health care home which is used solely
for a seasonal vacation purpose. Temporary housing, except for temporary family
health care structures as defined below, shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
The term DWELLING shall include within its meaning the terms rooming house and
rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
      GARBAGE. The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathroom,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communication
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, or any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
      INSPECTOR. The Mocksville Town Manager or his or her designee or agent.
INSPECTOR shall be synonymous with "public officer," as that term is used in
G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 12.
      MULTIPLE DWELLINGS. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANCY. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others: (1) shall
have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; (2) shall be a mortgagee of record for
any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit; or (3) shall have charge, care, or
control of any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, as owner or agent of
the actual owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator, trustee or guardian
of the estate of the actual owner. Any such person thus representing the actual
owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article and of rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she
were the OWNER.
      PARTY OR PARTIES-IN-INTEREST. All individuals, associations and
corporations who have interests of record in a non-residential building or
structure, dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in
possession thereof.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
      PLUMBING. Includes of the following supplied facilities and equipment;
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units, (mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
      PUBLIC OFFICER. The officers or officer who are authorized by this
article to exercise the powers prescribed by this article and G.S. Ch. 160D,
Art. 12. See the definition of INSPECTOR above.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to four
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living or sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Non-food waste materials. The term shall include items such as:
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches,
yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral, glass and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE STRUCTURE. A transportable residential
structure as authorized by G.S. § 160D-915, providing an environment
facilitating a caregiver's provision of care for a mentally or physically
impaired person that is (i) primarily assembled at a location other than its
site of installation, (ii) is limited to one occupant who shall be the mentally
or physically impaired person, (iii) has no more than 300 gross square feet,
and (iv) complies with applicable provisions of the State Building Code and
G.S. § 143-139.1(b). These structures are deemed to be permitted accessory
structures by state law.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable, and which is not attached to
the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house, or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or
more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this article.
      VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
      VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used
for the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used
for that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another
use.
   (B)   Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter
gender.
   (C)   Words having certain meaning shall mean whenever the words DWELLING,
DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, or PREMISES are used in this
article, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or
any part thereof."
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.11 CHAPTER SUPPLEMENTAL; ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   This article shall not be construed to impair or limit in any way the power
of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement by
summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this article by civil action
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175. The enforcement of any remedy provided in this
article shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies
provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 5-4.20 DUTIES AND POWERS OF ENFORCING AGENT.
   (A)   The inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this article. It shall be the duty of the inspector to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction and determine which structures are in violation
of this article;
      (2)   Take such action pursuant to this article as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this article and to keep a record of the results
of inspections made under this article and an inventory of those dwellings that
do not meet the minimum standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this article or
assigned to him or her by the Mocksville Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The inspector is granted and permitted such powers as may be necessary
to carry out the intent and the provisions of this article, including the
following powers in addition to others granted in this article:
      (1)   To investigate the conditions of buildings within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which structures are
abandoned and in violation of this article;
      (2)   To obtain administrative search warrant(s) pursuant to G.S. § 15-
27.2.
      (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this article;
      (6)   To investigate the conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this article with respect to such dwellings and dwelling
units; and
      (7)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.21 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   Whenever the inspector finds any building or structure or portion thereof to
be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town as
defined in in this article, or if a petition is filed with the office of the
inspector by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
exists in violation of this article, or whenever it appears to the inspector,
upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof, he or she
shall, if his or her preliminary investigation disclosed a basis for such
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties-in-interest
in such structure a complaint. Such complaint shall state the charges and
contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the inspector at the
location of the property subject to the complaint, or at another location
within the town limits not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint. The owner or any party-in-interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any person
desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall be not controlling in these hearings.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.22 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector pursuant to this article
shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified
mail. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the
complaint or order will also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if
the owners are known but have refused to accept service by registered or
certified mail, and the inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and
the serving of such complaint, ordinance or order upon such person may be made
by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required. Where
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or
order.
   (C)   That whenever a determination is made pursuant to §
5-4.23 of this article that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed
or demolished, notice of the order shall be given by first-class mail to any
organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for such notices. A minimum period of
45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be given before removal or
demolition by action of the inspector, to allow the opportunity for any
organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs, lease, or purchase
the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing. The inspector or
Town Clerk shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certification
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for such notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the inspector to
wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.23 DETERMINATION, ISSUANCE OF ORDER AFTER HEARING.
   (A)   Determination for dwellings. After such notice and hearing as provided
in §
5-4.21, if the inspector finds that the dwelling under consideration is unfit
for human habitation he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of that determination. The inspector shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order to repair, alter and improve such
structure or remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time not
to exceed 60 days.
   (B)   Determination for all other buildings and structures. If, after notice
and hearing, the inspector determines that the non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by this article, the
inspector shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order.
   (C)   Limitations on orders.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or
abandoned structure can be made at a cost of no more than 50% of the value of
the dwelling or building as determined and published most recently by the Davie
County Tax Assessor, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to repair, alter or improve the building, structure or dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or, in the case of non-residential
buildings to bring it into compliance with the standards of this article within
90 days. The order may require that the property be vacated and closed only if
continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will present a
significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of the
necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements; the current state of the
property; and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental disabilities. The
order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the
order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an unfit order under §
5-4.25; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling, building
or structure cannot be made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the
dwelling or building as determined and published most recently by the Davie
County Tax Assessor, the order may require the owner, within the time
specified, to remove or demolish the structure or dwelling within 90 days.
         (a)   Historic exception. However, notwithstanding any other provision
of law and this article, if the building, structure or dwelling is a local
historic landmark or listed in the National Register of Historic Places or is
located in a historic district listed in the National Register of Historic
Places and the Board of Commissioners determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the dwelling is of particular significance or value
toward maintaining the character of the district, and the dwelling has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and
closed consistent with G.S. § 160D-940 et seq.
      (3)   General exception for vacant manufacturing or industrial
facilities. An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER; COUNCIL MAY CONSIDER ORDINANCE ENFORCING
ORDER.
   (A)   Remedy. If the owner of any unsafe, unfit or abandoned dwelling,
building structure as defined in this article shall fail to comply with an
order of the inspector to repair, alter, or improve, vacate and close the same
within the time specified therein, the inspector may either request an
emergency meeting with the Town Board of Commissioners or place the matter on
the agenda of the next scheduled Commissioner's meeting. At the meeting the
Commissioners may consider an ordinance finding that failure to comply with the
order jeopardized the public health safety and welfare of the general public
and/or the occupants of the building structure or dwelling. If the Board of
Commissioners finds that the public or occupant's health and safety are
jeopardized, the Commissioners shall adopt an ordinance:
      (1)   Describing the property;
      (2)   Listing the Commissioner's findings;
      (3)   Directing that the ordinance be recorded in the Davie County
Registry and indexed in the grantor index in the name of the property owner(s);
and
      (4)   Directing that the inspector cause the building or dwelling to be
repaired, altered and repaired or vacated and closed; or
      (5)   Directing that the inspector cause the building, structure or
dwelling be demolished and removed if the cost of repair, alteration or
improvement of the building, structure or dwelling would exceed 50% of its then
current value.
      (6)   If the building or dwelling is to be closed the ordinance will
direct the inspector to post the property with a placard reading:
         (a)   For non-residential buildings: "This building is unfit for any
use; the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful"; or
         (b)   For dwellings: "This building is unfit for human habitation; the
use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful."
   (B)   Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a non-
residential building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor. Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
dwelling so posted shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   Further in rem remedy; demolition. If the Town Board of Commissioners
has adopted an ordinance ordering a dwelling to be repaired, vacated or closed
under subsection (A) above, and if the owner fails to comply with that
ordinance in regard to a residence in one year, or two years in the case of
non-residential buildings or structures, the Board of Commissioners may
consider another ordinance if the Board finds that: the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the building, structure or
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or, for non-residential
buildings, to have abandoned the intention to repair and that the continuation
of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the
health, safety, morals and welfare of the town in that the dwelling would
continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in the town. Any ordinance enacted
shall set forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building, structure or dwelling within
90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the building, structure or dwelling within 90 days.
      (3)   Any ordinance so adopted shall be served on the owner of the
property and recorded in the Davie County Office of the Register of Deeds and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (4)   If the owner fails to comply with this article, the inspector shall
effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.25 REMEDIES; APPEAL BY OWNER TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall also hear any appeals from any
decision or order of the inspector.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the inspector may be taken to
the Board of Commissioners by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer,
Commissioner or commission of the town. Any appeal from the inspector shall be
taken within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the
order by filing with the office of the inspector, a notice of appeal to the
Commissioners which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the inspector shall forthwith transmit
to the Board of Commissioners all the papers constituting the record upon which
the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the
inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or
her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal
is from a decision of the inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any
act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the
hearing by the Board of Commissioners, unless the inspector certifies to the
Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him, that because of facts
stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the person making
the appeal), a suspension of his requirement would cause imminent peril to life
or property. In that case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a
restraining order, which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than
one day's written notice to the inspector by the Board of Commissioners, or by
a court of record upon petition made pursuant to subsection (F) of this
section.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Commissioners may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order
that in its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall
have all the powers of the inspector. The Commissioners shall have power also
in passing upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
would result from carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the
application of the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the
spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured,
and substantial justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be subject to
review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of
the decision of the Commissioner, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector, or a
decision rendered by the Board of Commissioners may petition the superior court
for an injunction restraining the inspector and/or town from carrying out the
order or decision and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary
injunction restraining the inspector pending a final disposition of the cause.
The petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or
rendering of the decision. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised
and shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require. It
shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary
injunction under this subsection.
   (F)   If any building, structure or dwelling is erected, constructed,
altered, repaired, converted, maintained, or used in violation of this article
or any valid order or decision of the inspector or Board of Commissioners made
pursuant to any ordinance or code adopted under authority of this article or
the North Carolina General Statutes, the inspector or Board may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or use, to restrain, correct or abate
the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or dwelling,
or to prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.26 SUMMARY EJECTMENT IF OCCUPANTS FAIL TO OBEY ORDER OR ORDINANCE TO
VACATE.
   (A)   Notice before ejectment from dwellings only. An action to remove an
occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of
a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this paragraph unless such occupant
was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary
ejectment proceeding that the Board of Commissioners has ordered the inspector
to proceed to exercise his duties under §
5-4.24 of this article to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (B)   Ejectment procedure for residential and non-residential buildings and
structures. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such
occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior Court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the inspector produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the
governing body pursuant to §
5-4.24 authorizing the officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.27 EMERGENCY ENFORCEMENT.
   The decision of the inspector pursuant to this article shall be final in
cases of emergency, which, in his or opinion, involve imminent danger to human
life or health. The inspector shall promptly cause such building, structure or
portion thereof to be made safe or abated. For this purpose, the inspector may
at once enter such structure or land on which it stands, or abutting land or
structure, with such assistance and at such cost as he may deem necessary. The
inspector may vacate adjacent structures and protect the public by appropriate
fences or such other means as may be necessary, and for this purpose, may close
a public or private way.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.28 PENALTIES AND FEES.
   (A)   Civil citations. If the violation continues after the deadline to
correct a violation established after the violation hearing by the order
requiring removal or correction of a violation, and no appeal has been filed
with the office of the inspector, then the inspector may issue a civil citation
with a fine in an initial amount of $100 against the violator. Thereafter, upon
issuing a second civil citation that each day the violation continues is an
additional separate and distinct offense and that additional citations with
additional fines of $100 shall apply each day the violation continues. Any
unpaid citations and delinquency charges shall be cumulative and shall be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as well as any attorney fees
incurred by the town incident thereto.
   (B)   Multiple notices not required. A hearing is not required for issuance
of consequent civil citations with fines after the issuance of the first
citation. This article may be enforced by the simultaneous issuance of both
civil citation(s) and a criminal citation, in addition to any other remedies
provided in this article. (See G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 160A-193.)
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 5-4.29 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default. If
the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the land or premises where the
nuisance occurred. A lien established pursuant to this subsection shall have
the same priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   Liens on residential and non-residential buildings. The amount of the
cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or
removal or demolition by the inspector shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (C)   Additional lien created in actions about residential buildings. Where
the original action was brought against a dwelling(s), the expense of the
action is also a lien on any other real property owned by the person in default
within the town limits or within one mile of the town limits, except for the
person's primary residence. A lien established pursuant to this subsection is
inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as money judgment. This
subsection shall not apply if the person in default can show that the nuisance
was created solely by the actions of another. (See G.S. § 160A-193.)
   (D)   The inspector will notify the Town Attorney to write a notice of lien
and cause it to be recorded in the county registry and/or judgments.
   (E)   Cost recovery in the case of actions against non-residential
buildings. If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the inspector, the
inspector shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property,
fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall
credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition
and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the
inspector, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be
disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or decree of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or
otherwise.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 5-4.40 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; CERTAIN CHAPTERS AND INDEX
ADOPTED AS MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following chapters and index of the latest edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code, as copyrighted by the International
Code Commission, Inc. shall be applicable to those buildings and structures,
residential and non-residential, as if fully set forth in this article, with
any additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this
article.
      (1)   Chapter 3, General Requirements;
      (2)   Chapter 4, Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations;
      (3)   Chapter 5, Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements;
      (4)   Chapter 6, Mechanical and Electrical Requirements;
      (5)   Chapter 7, Fire Safety Requirements;
      (6)   Chapter 8, Referenced Standards;
      (7)   Index.
   (B)   Amendments to the International Property Maintenance Code which are
adopted and published by the International Code Council, Inc., from time to
time, shall be effective as to this article on the effective date prescribed by
the International Code Council, Inc.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
ARTICLE 5: PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
5-5.1   Definitions
   
5-5.2   Reserved
   
5-5.3   Reserved
   
5-5.4   Littering—generally
   
5-5.5   Same—from vehicles
   
5-5.6   Maintenance of public areas of certain commercial
establishments—generally
   
5-5.7   Same—receptacles
   
5-5.8   Declaration of public nuisance
   
5-5.9   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance
   
5-5.10   Right to a hearing
   
5-5.11   Abatement procedure
   
5-5.12   Procedure is alternative
   
5-5.13   Reserved
   
5-5.14   Annual notice to chronic violators of overgrown vegetation
§ 5-5.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   BUILDING MATERIAL (also called CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION MATERIAL). Brick,
stone, carpet, plumbing materials, plaster, concrete, asphalt, roofing, floor
coverings, gutters or other material or substances accumulated as a result of
construction, repairs or additions to existing structures or accessory
structures or demolition of such.
   GARBAGE. A by-product of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food or other matter which is
subject to decomposition, decay, and/or the generation of noxious or offensive
gases or odors, or which during and/or after decay may serve as breeding or
feeding material for flies, insects and/or animals.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.
      (1)   Potentially dangerous byproducts which cannot be handled, treated
or disposed of without special precautions.
      (2)   HAZARDOUS WASTE includes ignitable, corrosive, reactive and toxic
wastes such as acetone, gasoline, industrial metal, alkaline cleaners, acids,
cyanide, chlorine, arsenic, pesticide wastes, paint, caustics, infected
materials, offal, fecal matter (human and animal) and explosives.
      (3)   Any HAZARDOUS WASTE listed in 40 Code of Federal Regulations
Chapter 1, Subchapter I, Part 261, Subpart D, Lists of Hazardous Waste.
   JUNK. Any item creating a littered condition including, but not limited to,
household or office furnishings, household appliances, mattress, box springs,
lawn equipment, machinery or other similar items which are either in a wholly
or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative condition.
   YARD WASTE.
      (1)   Grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery pruning and
other similar materials which are generated in the maintenance of yards and
gardens, which are separate from other solid waste materials and placed in a
designated recycling collection area.
      (2)   YARD WASTE shall not include trees, tree limbs, brush or other
material resulting from commercial tree trimmers and/or commercial lawn-care
services.
(2003 Code, § 5-5.1) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.2 RESERVED.
§ 5-5.3 RESERVED.
§ 5-5.4 LITTERING—GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any street or
sidewalk, or upon any private property, except with written permission of the
owner or occupant of the private property, any trash, refuse, garbage, building
material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper or any type of litter.
(1989 Code, § 9-3; 2003 Code, § 5-5.4)
Cross-reference:
   Use of containers required, see §
6-4.2
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see G.S. §§ 14-399, 14-399.1, 160A-303
§ 5-5.5 SAME—FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place or
upon private property.
(1989 Code, § 9-4; 2003 Code, § 5-5.5)
§ 5-5.6 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS OF CERTAIN COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENTS—GENERALLY.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the
use of the public, either for parking or as access area incident to the
carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon the street or other public way.
(1989 Code, § 9-5; 2003 Code, § 5-5.6)
§ 5-5.7 SAME—RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas within
the meaning of §
5-5.6. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other material deposited therein.
(1989 Code, § 9-6; 2003 Code, § 5-5.7)
§ 5-5.8 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and the ETJ and are hereby found, deemed and declared
to be public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the creation,
maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
ten inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not
be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall
determine these qualifications;
   (B)   Any accumulation of trash and/or garbage which is the result of the
absence or of overflowing or improperly closed trash or garbage containers;
   (C)   Accumulation in an open place of hazardous waste or toxic materials
and chemicals;
   (D)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags or any other combustible materials or objects of like
nature;
   (E)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or vermin prejudicial to
the public health;
   (F)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (G)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, refrigerator, stove,
washer, dryer, other “white goods”, glass, building materials, building rubbish
or similar items;
   (H)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Town Manager or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises;
   (I)   Any condition which blocks, hinders or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water;
   (J)   Nuisance vehicle; a vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass.
   (K)   Neglect of property. It shall be unlawful for any person to endanger
the public health, safety and welfare through the neglect of property by
causing or allowing the accumulation of solid waste or unsightly litter, waste
products causing the existence of foul odors, dead animals, unsecured
appliances, building material, hazardous waste or potentially dangerous devices
to be discarded, abandoned or remain on or emanate from any property, or to
cause or allow the accumulation of solid waste or unsightly litter, waste
products causing the existence of foul odors, dead animals, unsecured
appliances, building material, construction and demolition material, hazardous
waste or potentially dangerous devices to be discarded, abandoned or remain on
or emanate from public property or other private property, vacant lots, ponds,
streams or bodies of water or banks thereof;
   (L)   Dilapidated condition on premises. It shall be unlawful for any person
to have on his or her premises material that creates a littered condition, such
as, but not limited to, lawn furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment,
building materials, automotive parts, tires, fencing or any other items which
are in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or inoperative
condition and which are not completely enclosed within a building or dwelling;
   (M)   Storage or use of upholstered furniture outdoors. It shall be unlawful
for any person to keep, store or use any upholstered furniture in any outdoor
location on any property unless it is totally enclosed in a weather-tight
building; and
   (N)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(1989 Code, § 9-7; 2003 Code, § 5-5.8) (Amended 3-6-2001; Amended 6-1-2010;
Amended 4-11-2018; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.9 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   When any condition in violation of this article is found to exist, the Town
Manager or designee shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or
remove the conditions within ten days. The notice shall be in writing, shall
include a description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall
set forth the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected
within ten days, the town may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this
article. Service of the notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
   (A)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner;
   (B)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed to
the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or
   (C)   By posting and keeping posted for ten days, a copy of the notice, in
placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by subsections (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Annual notice to chronic violators shall only be made by registered or
certified mail. When service is attempted by registered or certified mail, a
copy of the notice may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If service by regular mail is used, a copy of the notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
(1989 Code, § 9-8; 2003 Code, § 5-5.9) (Amended 3-6-2001; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.10 RIGHT TO A HEARING.
   Any affected property owner may request a hearing before the Town Manager or
designee to show cause why they are not in violation of this article. The
appeal shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the Town Manager or
designee in 14 calendar days from the date the original notice of violation was
mailed or served as provided in §
5-5.9.
(Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.11 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this article, within ten days after the service of the notice, he or she shall
be subject to prosecution for violation of this article in accordance with law
and each day that the failure continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Town Manager may have the condition described in the notice
abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall
be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall be collected
as taxes and levies are collected. All expenses shall constitute a lien against
the property on which the work was done.
(1989 Code, § 9-9; 2003 Code, § 5-5.10) (Amended 3-6-2001; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.12 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Nothing in this article nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit, in any way, the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
articles or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this article shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
1.8. of the code of the town.
(1989 Code, § 9-10; 2003 Code, § 5-5.11) (Amended 3-6-2001; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 5-5.13 RESERVED.
§ 5-5.14 ANNUAL NOTICE TO CHRONIC VIOLATORS OF OVERGROWN VEGETATION.
   The town may notify a chronic violator of the §
5-5.8(A), the overgrown vegetation ordinance, that if the violator's property
is found to be in violation of the ordinance, the municipality shall, without
further notice in the calendar year in which notice is given, take action to
remedy the violation, and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon
the property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes. The initial annual notice
shall be served according to §
5-5.9(D). A CHRONIC VIOLATOR is a person who owns property whereupon, in the
previous calendar year, the municipality took remedial action at least three
times under the overgrown vegetation ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-30-2009; Amended 11-2-2021)
ARTICLE 6: ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
5-6.1   Administration
   
5-6.2   Definitions
   
5-6.3   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
5-6.4   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
5-6.5   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
5-6.6   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles
   
5-6.7   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
5-6.8   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
5-6.9   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
5-6.10   Rights to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
5-6.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
5-6.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
5-6.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
5-6.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
5-6.15   Exceptions
   
5-6.16   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 5-6.1 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager or designee shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this article. The Town Manager and DCSO shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
“abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town, and on property
owned by the town. The Town Manager or designee shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposal of “abandoned”, “nuisance” and “junked”
motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on an annual basis,
contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store
and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles
in compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this
article shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of the
officers of the Town in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their
duties.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.1) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 5-6.2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
article prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public;
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The Town Manager or designee and Davie County Sheriff,
respectively, are designated to order the removal of vehicles under the
provisions of this article.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500;
or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   A junked motor vehicle.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.2) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.3 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned, as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the town may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.3) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.4 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager or designee may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard, and a nuisance vehicle, as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.4) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.5 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of §
5-6.7, the Town Manager or designee may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle found in violation of this article to a storage garage or area. No
vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written request of
the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises unless the Town Manager or
designee finds in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle
outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. The finding shall
be based upon a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against
the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community,
neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among other relevant factors,
may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the
area residents.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.5) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.6 PERMITTED CONCEALMENT OR ENCLOSURE OF JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the rear
yard, as defined in the town zoning article, provided the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view, from a public street and/or abutting
premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days. Junked
motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be kept
inside a completely enclosed building. The Town Manager or designee has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate.
   (B)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding 60
calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as defined
in the town zoning ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.6) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.7 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
5-6.8. below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the name(s) and address(es) of the registered owner or
person entitled to possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail.
   (B)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the date
mailed. If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to
be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is mailed or affixed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (C)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle,
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Adjustments in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Adjustments, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided. Appeals from the
Board of Adjustment shall be to District Court in Davie County.
   (D)   Vehicles shall be released at any time after towing by posting a bond
or paying the fees then due following §
5-6.11 below.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.7) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.8 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorized official,
be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for prompt
action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and protect
the public safety and welfare. The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by
the authorized official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances
justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include.
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determines that the
immediate removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an article prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicle left on town-owned property other than the streets or
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorized official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.8) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.9 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform the services for
the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorized town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle with the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice indicating the information set forth in subsections (A)(1) through (A)
(5) above shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the date of the removal of
the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorized
town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in subsections
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.9) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.10 RIGHTS TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.10) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.11 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this article.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.11) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.12 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in accordance
with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.12) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.13 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Manager or designee. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.13) (Adopted 3-6-2001; Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-6.14 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this article.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.14) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard"
as defined in G.S. § 136-143 in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S.
§§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.15) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
§ 5-6.16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove
from any storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle which has been
impounded pursuant to the provisions of this article, unless and until all
towing and impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have
been paid.
   (B)   All articles in conflict with the provisions of this article are
hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
(2003 Code, § 5-6.16) (Adopted 3-6-2001)
ARTICLE 7: [RESERVED]
ARTICLE 8: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
5-8.1   Purpose
   
5-8.2   Severability
   
5-8.3   Definitions
   
5-8.4   Licensing of adult establishment operators
   
5-8.5   Licensing of persons engaged in the performance of adult live
entertainment
   
5-8.6   Employer to use licensed employees
   
5-8.7   Posting of license
   
5-8.8   Notice and hearing as to revocation of license
   
5-8.9   Hours of operation
   
5-8.10   Privilege license annual
   
5-8.11   Prohibited practices
   
5-8.12   Enforcement—generally
   
5-8.13   Same—inspections
§ 5-8.1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this article to regulate sexually oriented
businesses, to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens
of the town and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   The provisions of this article have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials or other expressive activities, including sexually oriented materials
or activities.
   (C)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article to restrict
or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first
amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this article to in any way condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material or material harmful to minors.
   (D)   The authority for this regulation is G.S. §§ 160A-174, 160A-194 and
160A-181.1.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.1)
§ 5-8.2 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this article, or the application thereof, to any person or
condition is held invalid the invalidity shall not affect other parts of this
article or their application to any other person or condition, and to the end,
the provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.2)
§ 5-8.3 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.
      (1)   A bookstore which receives a majority of its gross income during
any calendar month from the sale or rental of publications (including books,
magazines, other periodicals, videotapes, compact discs, other photographic,
electronic, magnetic, digital or other imaging medium) which are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in
this section; or
      (2)   A bookstore having as a preponderance (either in terms of the
weight and importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of
materials) of its publications (including books, magazines, other periodicals,
videotapes, compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or
other imaging medium) which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult
mini-motion picture theater or adult live entertainment business, as defined in
this article.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this article.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
article, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any mini-motion picture theater, as defined in this article.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this article, for observation by
patrons therein.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPY. Any massage or bodywork therapy as defined by
the State Massage and Bodywork Therapy Practice Act, G.S. §§ 90-621 et seq.,
provided by a person licensed as provided therein to perform the therapy.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as massage studios or
massage parlors, but not including, massage and bodywork therapy, as defined
herein.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or other device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities, but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.3)
§ 5-8.4 LICENSING OF ADULT ESTABLISHMENT OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an adult establishment, either as a principal
or accessory use, as herein defined, unless the person shall have first applied
for and received the privilege license provided by this article.
   (B)   Every application for the privilege license prescribed herein shall be
upon a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Town
Clerk. Every application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of the
person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or association, the
registered name of the agent and the address of the registered office and the
name and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the adult establishment business
shall be located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in subsection (B)(1) above for any felony, or prostitution
or any violation of the law relative to prostitution;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation by any governmental unit, of
any license to operate an adult establishment held by any person whose name is
required to be given in subsection (B)(1) above;
      (5)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in subsection (B)(1) above for violation of any statute,
law, article or regulation of any government concerning the operation of an
adult establishment;
      (6)   The name and address of any adult establishment or other
establishment owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be
given in subsection (B)(1) above wherein the business of adult establishment is
carried on; and
      (7)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Davie
County Sheriff’s Office for an investigative report and to determine compliance
with any law relating to fire protection; and to the Inspections Division to
determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations and articles. The
Davie County Sheriff’s Office shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 45
days, report the results of its examination to the Town Clerk.
   (D)   An application in proper form, accompanied by all reports required by
this article, shall be submitted to the Town Board, which shall approve the
application, if the Town Board determines that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial
ownership interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime
involving sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to, G.S. Art. 26, §§
14-177 through 14-202.1, (Offenses Against Public Morality And Decency), and
G.S. Art. 27, §§ 14-203 through 14-208, (Prostitution), or of any violation of
any federal statute relating to prostitution, or of any violation of any law or
article of any governmental unit concerning or related to the business of adult
establishment;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable Zoning,
Building and Fire Prevention Codes; and
      (4)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application had a previously issued license for engaging in the business of
adult establishment revoked.
   (E)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Board, and upon receipt
of a fee determined annually by the Board of Commissioners in the schedule of
fees, the Town Clerk shall issue a license to applicant.
   (F)   A license issued pursuant to this article shall be revoked by action
of the Town Board if the Town Board determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provisions of this article;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant’s business, any person practicing the
business or profession of adult live entertainment who has not been issued the
privilege license required by this article, or whose license under the article
has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee, is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct, including
but not limited to G.S. Art. 26, §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, (Offenses Against
Public Morality And Decency), and G.S. Art. 27, §§ 14-203 through 14-208,
(Prostitution); or
      (4)   The licensee violates any Zoning, Building or Fire Prevention Code
article.
   (G)   A license issued pursuant to this article is void if the licensee
moves or ceases operating an adult establishment at the location required to be
stated in the application for license pursuant to subsection (B)(2) of this
article.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.4) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 5-8.5 LICENSING OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF ADULT LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business or profession of adult live
entertainment unless the person shall have first applied for and received the
privilege license provided by this section.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this article shall be upon
a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Town Clerk. The
application shall be given under oath and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including any adult live entertainment experience;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local article;
      (4)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of adult live entertainment; and
      (5)   The date and place of the applicant's birth, the name of the
applicant's parents and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for
the five years immediately preceding the date of application.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit, as part of the application required in
subsection (B) above, the following:
      (1)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department;
      (2)   Two recent photographs of the applicant's head and shoulders, of a
size and quality prescribed by the Town Manager; and
      (3)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice
in the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free from communicable disease. The additional
information required by this subsection shall be provided at the applicant's
expense.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the application to the Davie
County Sheriff’s Office for an investigative report. The Sheriff’s Office
shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 45 days, report the results of
its investigation to the Town Clerk.
   (E)   An application in proper form shall be submitted to a review panel
consisting of the Town Manager, the Town Attorney and the Davie County Sheriff
with all reports required by this section. The review panel shall approve the
application if it determines:
      (1)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (3)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. Art. 26 §§ 14-177 through 14-
202.1, (Offenses Against Public Morality And Decency), and G.S. Art. 27 §§ 14-
203 through 14-208, (Prostitution), or of any violation of any federal statute
relating to prostitution, or for violation of any law or article of any
governmental unit concerning or related to the business or profession of adult
live entertainment;
      (4)   The applicant has not, for the three-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for engaging in the business or
profession of adult live entertainment revoked;
      (5)   The applicant is free from communicable disease as evidenced by the
medical certificate required herein; and
      (6)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Upon approval of the application by the Town Board and upon receipt of
a fee determined annually by the Board of Commissioners in the schedule of
fees, the Town Clerk shall issue a privilege license to the applicant.
   (G)   The Town Board shall have authority to direct that any person licensed
under this article submit to a medical examination by a licensed physician
approved by the Town Board. This authority shall be exercised only when the
Board has reason to believe that any person has contracted a communicable
disease. Refusal to submit to the examination shall be grounds for revocation
of the license as provided in subsection (H) below. Notwithstanding the
provision of this subsection, every person licensed under this article shall
file and continue to file with the Town Clerk a new medical certificate with
each application for renewal of the license prescribed by this article. Failure
to file the updated certificates shall be grounds for revocation of the license
as provided in subsection (H) below.
   (H)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Town Board if the Town Board determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this article;
      (2)   The licensee is afflicted with a communicable disease;
      (3)   The licensee has failed to be examined by a licensed physician when
required by the Town Board pursuant to subsection (G) above, or has failed to
file any medical certificate required by subsection (G) above; or
      (4)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. Art.26, §§ 14-177 through
14-202.1, (Offenses Against Public Morality And Decency), and G.S. Art. 27, §§
14-203 through 14-208, (Prostitution), or under any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or article of any governmental unit
related to the business or profession of adult live entertainment.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.5) (Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-8.6 EMPLOYER TO USE LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   No person licensed under this article shall allow or permit any person to
perform adult live entertainment upon the premises operated by the licensee
unless the person so performing has complied with all requirements of
licensing, including periodic medical examinations by a licensed physician.
Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued
to the violator pursuant to this article.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.6)
§ 5-8.7 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person engaged in adult live entertainment shall post the
license required by this article in his or her work area.
   (B)   Every person licensed under this article shall display the license in
a prominent place.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.7)
§ 5-8.8 NOTICE AND HEARING AS TO REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Before the Town Board revokes a license issued pursuant to this article, or
if the Town Board determines reasonable grounds exist to deny an application
for a license pursuant to this article, the Town Board shall cause a written
notice to be sent by certified mail to the licensee affected or applicant
affected, at the address stated in the license or application. This notice
shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before the Town Board,
with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of
presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or denial, and for the
purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining any
person providing the evidence.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.8)
§ 5-8.9 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person licensed hereunder shall engage in the business or
profession of adult entertainment before 8:00 a.m. or after 12:00 midnight.
   (B)   No person licensed hereunder shall admit customers or prospective
customers, or remain open for business, before 8:00 a.m. or after midnight.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing an adult establishment upon the
premises shall allow, permit or condone the violation of subsections (A) or (B)
of this section.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.9)
§ 5-8.10 PRIVILEGE LICENSE ANNUAL.
   The licenses required under this article are privilege licenses. The
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the town pursuant to the license and privilege tax
ordinance of the town. The licenses required under this article are in addition
to all other privilege licenses that an applicant is required to obtain
pursuant to the license and privilege tax ordinance of the town.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.10)
§ 5-8.11 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to touch any individual customer in a manner as
to result in sexual orgasm by the individual being touched or massaged.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any employee to touch any individual customer
in a manner which is reasonably calculated to sexually stimulate or arouse the
person being touched or massaged. Intentionally touching of the genitals of a
person constitutes prima facie evidence of an attempt to sexually arouse or
stimulate.
   (C)   Massage businesses shall be prohibited as primary uses and as
accessory uses to any licensed adult establishment.
(2003 Code, § 5-8.11)
§ 5-8.12 ENFORCEMENT—GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office to periodically
inspect the premises of any permittee under this article, to determine any
violations of its provisions, and to otherwise enforce this article.
(1989 Code, § 11-57; 2003 Code, § 5-8.12) (Amended 7-6-2021 )
§ 5-8.13 SAME—INSPECTIONS.
   Officials of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office and other authorized
municipal officials shall, from time to time, make an inspection of each adult
establishment for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this
article any applicable state laws are complied with. Authorized officials shall
have access to the premises of each establishment during hours of operation for
inspection purposes.
(1989 Code, § 11-58; 2003 Code, § 5-8.13) (Amended 7-6-2021 )
CHAPTER VI: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES AND SERVICES
      Article
         
1.   WATER
         
2.   SEWER USE
         
3.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
         
4.   GREASE INTERCEPTORS
         
5.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION
         
6.   WATER AND SEWER UTILITY EXTENSIONS
         
7.   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
ARTICLE 1: WATER
Section
   
6-1.1   Board to regulate water system
   
6-1.2   Water Superintendent
   
6-1.3   Access to property
   
6-1.4   Connection—when required
   
6-1.5   Same—permit
   
6-1.6   Same—separate for each structure
   
6-1.7   Utility charges rates on file; cutting off water
   
6-1.8   Responsibility of owners of more than one facility
   
6-1.9   Meter accuracy and test rates
   
6-1.10   Adjustment of bills for meter error
   
6-1.11   Turning on water cut off for non-payment of bills
   
6-1.12   Resale of water
   
6-1.13   Fire hydrants
   
6-1.14   Backflow prevention required
   
6-1.15   Tampering with or obstructing water lines
   
6-1.16   Work on water system
§ 6-1.1 BOARD TO REGULATE WATER SYSTEM.
   The water system of the town shall be under the control of, and the duty of
prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all rules and regulations
governing all connections with the water system shall be vested in, the Board
or its authorized agent.
(1989 Code, § 10-20; 2003 Code, § 6-1.1)
§ 6-1.2 WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Board may select some competent person to supervise under its general
control the entire water system of the town. The Board may from time to time
prescribe the duties and responsibilities of the Water Superintendent.
(1989 Code, § 10-21; 2003 Code, § 6-1.2)
§ 6-1.3 ACCESS TO PROPERTY.
   The designated municipal employee shall, at all reasonable hours, have free
access to all premises for the purpose of examining hydrants, fixtures or
connections on which municipal water pressure is maintained.
(1989 Code, § 10-22; 2003 Code, § 6-1.3)
§ 6-1.4 CONNECTION—WHEN REQUIRED.
   Every person owning improved property in the town, which is located within
300 feet of a municipal water line, shall connect the property with the water
line within 30 days after receiving written notice from the town.
(1989 Code, § 10-23; 2003 Code, § 6-1.4)
§ 6-1.5 SAME—PERMIT.
   No person shall connect with the water system of the town until the person
shall have made application for permission to so connect in writing to the
Clerk, which application shall be made before any part of the drainage system
of the structure or other connection shall have been laid or constructed. The
application shall be accompanied with a plan or drawing showing the location of
the structure and the entire proposed connection from the public sewerage line
through the structure to its terminus, showing the location of all the
fixtures, traps, ventilating pipes and the like and shall state the name and
number of the street and the name of the person.
(1989 Code, § 10-24; 2003 Code, § 6-1.5)
§ 6-1.6 SAME—SEPARATE FOR EACH STRUCTURE.
   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall install
a separate water connection.
(1989 Code, § 10-25; 2003 Code, § 6-1.6)
§ 6-1.7 UTILITY CHARGES RATES ON FILE; CUTTING OFF WATER.
   (A)   Water rates, deposits, system development fees and connection and
reconnection charges shall be determined from time to time by the Board,
published in the annually adopted fee schedule and shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk.
   (B)   A policy for cutting off water service to delinquent water and sewer
customers shall be adopted by the Board and kept on file.
(1989 Code, § 10-26; 2003 Code, § 6-1.7) (Amended 10-3-2023)
§ 6-1.8 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF MORE THAN ONE FACILITY.
   Any property owner having more than one facility using water from the same
water tap shall be responsible for water bills for all the facilities.
(1989 Code, § 10-27; 2003 Code, § 6-1.8)
§ 6-1.9 METER ACCURACY AND TEST RATES.
   The town shall test or cause to be tested and make a thorough examination of
water meters and all fixtures where so desired by the consumer under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Should the test of meter and inspection prove the excessive bill to be
caused by negligence of the town, or inaccuracy of the meter, the expense of
that investigation shall be borne by the town.
   (B)   Should the test and inspection prove to be the fault of the consumer
or any person not connected with or in the employ of the town, the actual cost
of that investigation is to be borne by the consumer making the protest and
asking for the inspection, the actual cost to be fixed by the Board.
(1989 Code, § 10-28; 2003 Code, § 6-1.9)
§ 6-1.10 ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS FOR METER ERROR.
   The town may adjust and settle inequitable and abnormal water bills due to
meter error.
(1989 Code, § 10-29; 2003 Code, § 6-1.10)
§ 6-1.11 TURNING ON WATER CUT OFF FOR NON-PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   When the water that is being used by any person has been cut off because of
the non-payment of the water account, that person shall pay a fee fixed by the
Board and kept on file in the office of the Clerk before the water shall be
turned back on.
(1989 Code, § 10-30; 2003 Code, § 6-1.11)
Statutory reference:
   Discontinuance of service for delinquency, see G.S. § 160A-314
§ 6-1.12 RESALE OF WATER.
   No person shall furnish water from the person's premises for any other
premises through any one meter by way of piping or tubing. Each additional
premise must have its own separate water meter, if it is to be served by the
town.
(1989 Code, § 10-31; 2003 Code, § 6-1.12)
§ 6-1.13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person, except employees of the town, or other persons authorized by the
Manager, shall take water from any public hydrant, plug, street washer, draw
cock, hose, pipe or fountain, nor shall anyone in any way use or take water for
private use unless that person shall pay for the privilege and receive a permit
from the town.
(1989 Code, § 10-32; 2003 Code, § 6-1.13)
§ 6-1.14 BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED.
   See Article 5 of this chapter for provisions concerning backflow prevention
devices.
(2003 Code, § 6-1.14)
§ 6-1.15 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING WATER LINES.
   (A)   No person shall touch, tamper with or, in any manner, manipulate or
turn the cut-offs on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the
town, nor shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any
water line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit
any material or substance into any water line that will in any manner obstruct
the line.
   (B)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 10-33; 2003 Code, § 6-1.15) (Amended 1-4-2022)
§ 6-1.16 WORK ON WATER SYSTEM.
   All work on the water system and all connections or disconnections thereto
shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town or its
representatives or plumbers approved by the town. All work shall be performed
in accordance with the Plumbing Code of the town.
(1989 Code, § 10-34; 2003 Code, § 6-1.16)
ARTICLE 2: SEWER USE
Section
   
6-2.1   General provisions
   
6-2.2   General sewer use requirements
   
6-2.3   Fees
   
6-2.4   Wastewater discharge permit application and issuance
   
6-2.5   Reporting requirements
   
6-2.6   Compliance monitoring
   
6-2.7   Confidential information
   
6-2.8   Enforcement
   
6-2.9   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
6-2.10   Adjudicatory hearings
   
6-2.11   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
6-2.12   Severability
   
6-2.13   Conflict
§ 6-2.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and policy.
      (1)   This section sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and Federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
      (2)   The objectives of this section are:
         (a)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
         (b)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
         (c)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and
sludges from the municipal system;
         (d)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by
sewage, sludge and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as
protecting the general public;
         (e)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
         (f)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
      (3)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users, and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users; authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities; requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
      (4)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system and/or the Davie County Wastewater System through the Town system, as
authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall designate an
administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program, hereafter referred to as
the POTW Director. The Director of the Public Works Department or his designee
shall be the POTW Director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW
Director shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
article. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be
delegated by the POTW Director to other town personnel.
      (5)   By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms
and conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions or orders issued hereunder.
      (6)   The town wastewater collection system conveys wastewater to two
Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW). The Dutchman's Creek POTW is owned and
operated by the town. The Cooleemee POTW is owned and operated by Davie County.
The county will review all sewer and pre-treatment construction tributary to
the Cooleemee POTW.
   (B)   Definitions and abbreviations.
      (1)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases, as used in this article, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
         ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
         APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Resources of
the N.C. Department of Environmental Quality, or his or her designee.
         AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
            1.   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
               a.   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
               b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars) if authority to
sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
            2.   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole
proprietorship, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
            3.   If the industrial user is a Federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or his or her designee.
            4.   The individuals described in divisions 1. through 3. above may
designate another bi, if the authorization is in writing, the authorization
specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of
the facility from which the discharge originates or having overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the written
authorization is submitted to the town.
            5.   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no
longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to, or
together with, any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
         BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g.,
mg/l).
         BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a
user to the POTW.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of
a user's treatment facility.
         CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
         CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the Town of Mocksville.
         COUNTY. Davie County, N.C. including the area within the boundaries of
the Town of Bermuda Run, but not including areas of the Town of Mocksville
served by the Dutchman's Creek POTW.
         DEVELOPER. An individual or a group of individuals who seeks to
construct new facilities on a property.
         DIRECTOR. The Director of Utilities of the Town of Mocksville, or his
or her authorized representative(s).
         DOMESTIC SEPTAGE. The liquid or solid material removed from a septic
tank, cesspool, portable toilet or similar treatment works receiving only
domestic sewage. DOMESTIC SEWAGE does not include liquid or solid material
removed from a septic tank, cesspool, or similar treatment works receiving
either commercial wastewater or industrial wastewater and does not include
grease removed from a grease trap at a restaurant.
         DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Wastewater from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens
and home laundries, including the contents of septic tanks from residential
dwellings.
         EFFLUENT. Sewage, water or other liquid flowing out of any basin,
treatment device, or facility.
         ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
         FEDERAL REGISTER. A Federal government periodical dealing with Federal
legislation, published weekdays by the National Archives and Records Service.
         FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT, GREASE AND GREASE INTERCEPTOR. Are in
Chapter VI, Art. 4.
         GRAB SAMPLE. A sample taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis,
without regard to the flow in the waste stream, and over a period of time not
to exceed 15 minutes.
         HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material that would be identified as hazardous
wastes according to 40 C.F.R., Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer.
         HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
         HYDROCARBON OIL AND GREASE. Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting
oil, or products of mineral oil origin.
         INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction
from any non-domestic source, regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
         INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
         INFLOW/INFILTRATION. Inflow is the result of extraneous water entering
into the sewer system. Inflow includes water discharged into service
connections and sewer pipes from foundation and roof drains, outdoor paved
areas, unpolluted cooling water from air conditioners, and unpolluted
discharges from businesses and industries. Infiltration is the entry of water
into the sewer system from surrounding soil. Common points of entry include
broken pipe and defective joints in the pipe or walls of manholes. Infiltration
may result from sewers being laid below the groundwater table or from
saturation of the soil by rain or irrigation water.
         INFLUENT. Sewage, water or other liquid flowing into any basin,
treatment device, or facility.
         INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection
system, treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use or
disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
control authority's (and/or POTW's, if different from the control authority)
NPDES, collection system or non-discharge permit, or prevents sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345),
or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act
(MPRSA), or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
         MAY. Is permissive.
         MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
         NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD.
Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 3,
Subch. N, parts 405 through 471.
         NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to
G.S. § 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
         NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in § 6-2.2(A) and are developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
         NEW SOURCE.
            1.   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to the source if the standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c); provided that:
               a.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
               b.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
               c.   The production or wastewater-generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
            2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE, if the construction does
not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the
criteria of subsections 1.b. or c. above, but otherwise alters, replaces or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
            3.   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
               a.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
                  i.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
                  ii.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the
purchase of facilities or equipment intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
         NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product
or finished product.
         NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to
surface waters of the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not
discharge directly to surface waters of the state.
         NORTH CAROLINA PLUMBING CODE. The most recent edition of the North
Carolina State Building Code, entitled “plumbing,” published by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and the North Carolina Department of Insurance.
         OWNER. An individual, person, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, trust, or group upon whose property the building or structure
containing the food service establishment is located or will be constructed.
OWNERS shall also include the owner of a food service establishment who may
lease the building, structure, or a portion thereof, containing the food
service establishment.
         PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
state in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from
other sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation, of the POTW's, NPDES, collection system or non-
discharge permit, or a downstream water quality standard.
         PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
         pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed
as standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal
of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
         POLLUTANT. Any "waste", as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or
odor).
         POTW DIRECTOR. The Town administrator designated with responsibility
for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this ordinance or his or her
delegate.
         POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
         PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, or process changes or other means, except by diluting the
concentration of pollutants unless allowed by the applicable pretreatment
standard.
         PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources developed by the town in
compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
         PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
         PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any prohibited discharge standard, categorical
standard or local limit and any other regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the State of North Carolina or local agencies or by EPA
in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act.
         PRIVIES. Latrines, outhouses, or any other permanently installed
outdoor water closets.
         PROCESS WASTEWATER FLOW. That portion of the facility discharge that
is attributable to the function(s) that define(s) the facilities purpose(s).
         PROPER CONNECTIONS. Those sewer pipe connections made in accordance
with the North Carolina Plumbing Code or as stipulated by the director.
         PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM.
A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), owned in
this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or systems used
in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes  sewers, pipes
and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plant. For the purposes of this article, POTW shall also include any sewers
that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who are, by
contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the POTW of
the town.
         RESIDUALS. The solid or semi-solid waste generated from a biological
wastewater treatment facility with an NPDES permit which is owned or operated
by the commission.
         SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries domestic waste and/or
industrial wastes and to which storm, surface, ground waters, and unpolluted
waters are not intentionally admitted.
         SEPTAGE. The sludge produced in individual domestic on-site wastewater
disposal systems, such as septic tanks and cesspools.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
         SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
         SEWER CONNECTION. A sewer pipeline, normally a four-inch, cast-iron
soil pipe, running laterally from a street sewer, an off-street sewer or a
trunk sewer to an individual tract, lot or parcel of land to serve one or more
houses or other buildings, whether or not connected to any house or building.
         SHALL. Is mandatory.
         SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW ; or
            2.   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e. allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving the
indirect discharge ; or
            3.   Is subject to national categorical pretreatment standard ; or
            4.   Is found by the town, the N.C. Division of Water Resources, or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial
users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's
effluent quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or
requirements.
         SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of noncompliance of a significant
industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met:
            1.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined
here as those in which 66% more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(1);
            2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by 40 C.F.R. Part 403.3(1) multiplied by the applicable TRC. TRC = 1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease; 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow
and pH);
            3.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. part 403.3(1) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard), that the control authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public);
            4.   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or the environment, or has
resulted in the control authority's (or the POTW's, if different from the
control authority) exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. Part
403.8(f)(l)(vi)(B) and §
6-2.8(A)(5) of this article to halt or prevent the discharge;
            5.   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
            6.   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
compliance reports within 45 days from the due date;
            7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
            8.   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
         SLUDGE OR BIOSOLIDS. The solid or semi-solid waste resulting from
chemical treatment, coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, flotation,
precipitation, filtration, and/or biological oxidation of water or wastewater.
         SLUG LOAD OR DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in
any other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to, spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards.
         STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
         STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
         SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
         TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substance or mixture, whether gaseous, liquid or
solid, which, when discharged into the sewer system, may tend to interfere with
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to human beings or
animals, inhibit aquatic life, or create a hazard to recreation in the
receiving waters of the effluent from the sewage treatment plant.
         TRUNK SEWER. A major outfall or intercepting sewer installed along the
valley line of a watershed to serve as a collector for street sewers and minor
outfall lines serving subdivisions and developed property within an entire
watershed.
         UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
         USER. Any person, establishment, industry, firm, corporation, company,
association, society, or trust who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution of wastewater into the POTW.
         WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
         WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
6-2.4(B), Wastewater permits, below.
         WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds,
tidal estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, surface or  underground, natural or
artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow through or
border upon the state or any portion thereof.
      (2)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall
include the feminine and vice-versa.
      (3)   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary.
      (4)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural,
and the plural shall include the singular, as indicated by the context of its
use.
      (5)   When used in this article, the following abbreviations shall have
the designated meanings.
         BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
         C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
         COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
         EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
         gpd. Gallons per day.
         G.S. or NCGS. North Carolina General Statutes.
         I/I. Inflow and infiltration
         IWC. Industrial waste control
         l. Liter.
         mg. Milligrams.
         mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
         NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
         O&G. Oil and grease.
         O&M. Operation and maintenance.
         POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
         RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
         SIC. Standard industrial classification.
         SIU. Significant industrial user.
         SS. Suspended solids.
         SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
         TSS. Total suspended solids.
         TKN. Total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
         U.S.C. United States Code.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.1) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.2 GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Capacity certifications. Unless otherwise advised by the Director, a
capacity certification with evidence of fee payment shall be required or all
new or additional connections prior to initiation of sewer service.
   (B)   Construction standards. All new sewer construction shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the Davie County Utility Construction
Standards and approved by the Director.
   (C)   Prohibited discharge standards.
      (1)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW, whether or not the user is a significant industrial user,
or subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
      (2)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C), using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
         (c)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
         (d)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12.0, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
         (e)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
         (f)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C),
or which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting
in interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (g)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
         (h)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with division (K), Hauled
wastewater, below;
         (i)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
         (j)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
         (k)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment process, including but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health, secondary
recreation, or aquatic life and wildlife, or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or its aesthetic quality, or to impair the receiving
waters for any designated uses;
         (l)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or Federal regulations;
         (m)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
         (n)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director;
         (o)   Any sludges, screenings or other residue from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
         (p)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
POTW Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
         (q)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other
chelating agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the
municipal wastewater system;
         (r)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste
according to 40 C.F.R. part 261, if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may
be specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
         (s)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200;
         (t)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         (u)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
         (v)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and/or
         (w)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10%, of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      (3)   Processing/storage pollutants, substances, wastewater or other
wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in a manner
that they could be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
industrial user's pretreatment facility before connecting with the system; and
      (4)   Users in violation when the POTW Director determines that a user(s)
is contributing to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in amounts
which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass
through, the POTW Director shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution
on the POTW in accordance with § 6-2.8(A), Administrative remedies, below; and
         (b)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with § 6-2.4 Wastewater
Discharge Permit Application and Issuance below for the user to protect the
POTW from interference or pass through.
   (D)   National categorical pretreatment standards. Users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. N, parts 405 through 471 and
incorporated herein.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
POTW Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (3)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
      (5)   A user may request credit adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.7.
   (E)   Local limits.
      (1)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
 LIMIT
         LIMIT
BOD      250 mg/l
TSS      250 mg/l
NH3      25 mg/l
Arsenic  0.003 mg/l
Cadmium  0.003 mg/l
Chromium 0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
Copper   0.061 mg/l
Cyanide  0.015 mg/l
Lead     0.049 mg/l
Mercury  0.0003 mg/l
Nickel   0.021 mg/l
Silver   0.005 mg/l
Zinc     0.175 mg/l
 
      (2)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits, when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass-based
limits in addition to, or in place of, concentration-based limits.
   (F)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (G)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to establish
limitations and requirements more stringent than those required by either state
or federal regulation, if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in §
6-2.1(A), Purpose and policy, above or the general and specific prohibitions in
§
6-2.2(C), Prohibited discharge standards, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
   (H)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in
any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
   (I)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      (1)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment
as necessary to comply with this article and wastewater permits issued under §
6-2.4(B), Wastewater permits, and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out
in §
6-2.1(C), Prohibited discharge standards, within the time limitations as
specified by EPA, the state or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent.
Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review
and shall be approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility.
The review of the plans and operating procedures shall, in no way, relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce
an effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user's
initiation of the changes.
      (2)   Additional pretreatment measures.
         (a)   Specific restrictions. Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW
Director may require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow
periods, designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific
sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste
streams from industrial waste streams, and other conditions as may be necessary
to protect the POTW and determine the user's compliance with the requirements
of this article.
         (b)   Flow storage/equalization. The POTW Director may require any
person discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and
at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
         (c)   Oil, grease and sand separator and interceptors. See Article 4.
   (J)   Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug
discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
6-2.1(B), Definitions and abbreviations, above. All Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) must be evaluated within one year of being designated a SIU. The
POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the POTW Director may
develop a plan for any user.
      (2)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge or a slug load. Also see §
6-2.5(E), Reports of changed conditions and (F) Reports of potential problems.
      (3)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
6-2.5(F) Reports of potential problems; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. The procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (K)   Hauled wastewater.
      (1)   Any person who hauls wastewater or employs others to haul
wastewater to a public sewer system shall be referred to as contractors.
Contractors may be permitted to empty domestic septage into the POTW only at
locations designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established
by the POTW Director. The waste shall not violate this section, or any other
requirements established by the town. Septic tank discharges shall not contain
grease trap wastes, storm water, or industrial waste. The POTW Director shall
require Contractors to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators
of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this article.
      (3)   The contractors are subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Contractors must apply for and be permitted by the town and the
North Carolina Division of Solid Waste Management, Septage Management Branch as
required under G.S.§ 130A, prior to pumping, hauling and discharging into the
POTW.
         (b)   Wastewater discharged by a contractor into the POTW shall not
violate any section of this chapter or any other requirements established by
the state and/or town.
         (c)   Contractors must submit an accurate, complete and signed waste-
tracking form for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name
and address of the septage contractor, permit number, truck identification,
names and addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of
waste. The form shall certify that the waste is domestic septage and contains
no industrial, commercial, or grease trap waste. All forms shall be approved by
the Director.
         (d)   Contractors shall supply, with every load of septage, a
representative sample of the waste, if requested.
         (e)   The Director may require the contractor to provide and/or pay
for any laboratory tests necessary to verify that the hauled wastewater
complies with the requirements of this section.
         (f)   Contractors shall display decals or lettering on each side of
every pumper vehicle operated by the contractor. The decals or lettering shall
include the name, address (town name), phone number, and septage management
firm permit number. Each truck shall include a septage management permit
identifier number. All decals or lettering on the pumper vehicle shall be no
less than three inches in height and plainly visible. Identification shall be
permanently attached (i.e. no removal signs).
         (g)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the cleanliness and
safety practices at the point of disposal. The contractor shall discharge
wastes in such a manner as to keep the area clean from spills or other debris.
The contractor shall promptly clean up any spills.
         (h)   Any contractor violating any condition of this section shall be
subject to the enforcement actions as outlined in §
6-2.8(B) Civil penalties.
         (i)   Contractors shall provide any information as requested by the
Director to ascertain compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (j)   No permit or fee shall be required to discharge domestic waste
from a recreation vehicle holding tank provided such discharge is made at an
approved site.
         (k)   Contractors shall pay such fees as required in this chapter. The
Director may revoke the permit at any time for failure to pay sewer charges.
         (l)   Upon failure to maintain structures in a proper condition of
cleanliness, failure to have currently valid documents from the pertinent
government agency, failure to pay charges due to the town as herein provided,
or failure to abide by all of the requirements of this chapter, the town may
deny a contractor permission to dispose of septic tank sludge and waste from
chemical toilets into the public sewer system. The POTW Director will notify
the pertinent government agency of such denial of permission to any contractor.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.2) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.3 FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery
of costs, from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town, for the
implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW
Director and approved by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and fees will
be made available from the POTW Director.
   (B)   The fees may be published in the town's annual budget ordinance. See
the Town Clerk for copies of the budget ordinance.
   (C)   Surcharges. The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume
of flow and the character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater:
      (1)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
         (a)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town; or
         (b)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger's
option, other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of
wastewater discharged to the sewer. The devices shall be accessible and safely
located, and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans
approved by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at
the user's expense, according to arrangements that may be made with the town;
or
         (c)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply
from sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain, at his
or her own expense, a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
      (2)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected and analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in a manner as
to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using
procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director, or his or her
duly appointed representatives, shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (D)   Pretreatment program administration charges. The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the town may include charges and fees for:
      (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
      (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
      (4)   Permitting; and
      (5)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
   (E)   Surcharges.
      (1)   A sewer service surcharge may be billed and collected from
industrial/commercial users of the sewer system who discharge waste based on
BOD and TSS contribution. The surcharge is calculated on the basis of
wastewater BOD and TSS concentrations in excess of 200 mg/l for each of the
parameters. The surcharge rates for the BOD and TSS will be available in the
office of the Director. The town will determine by monitoring, the amount of
BOD and TSS being received into its sewer system from industrial/commercial
users. Such surcharge shall be imposed in addition to any existing sewer
service charge and any sewer charge imposed in the future. The determination of
the character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
by the Director or his or her duly appointed representatives shall be binding
as a basis for charges
      (2)   A sewer service surcharge shall be billed and collected from all
food service establishments required to maintain a grease interceptor in
accordance with the grease control ordinance, set forth in Art. 4 above.
   (F)   Charges for monitoring.
      (1)   Industrial/commercial users whose discharge is being periodically
monitored by the town shall pay for specific sampling and analytical work
performed by the town. If, during the course of normal monitoring, a violation
of this chapter is determined, additional monitoring may be imposed on the
industrial/commercial user at a frequency defined by the Director. The charge
for the monitoring will be for only those wastewater parameters or conditions
that are in violation of this chapter and monitoring may continue until the
violation ceases. The industrial/commercial user will pay for the additional
monitoring charges. Any additional monitoring for surcharge purposes requested
by an industrial/commercial user shall be paid for by the industrial user on a
per-analysis basis.
      (2)   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include
charges and fees for:
         (a)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
pretreatment program;
         (b)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug
load discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications; and
         (d)   Other fees as the town or county may deem necessary to carry out
the requirements of the pretreatment program.
      (3)   Permit fees. All users determined to require a permit shall pay a
permit development fee, in accordance with the schedule of rates and fees
established by the town and on file with the Town Clerk.
   (G)   System development fees. System development fees shall be determined
from time to time by the Board, published in the annually adopted fee schedule
and kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.3) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019; Amended 10-3-2023)
§ 6-2.4 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)    Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to
connect or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the
town. When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request.
The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users (SIU) shall
obtain a significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of
discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial users, determined by the POTW
Director to be significant industrial users, shall obtain a significant
industrial user permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW
Director's determination. Industrial users not fitting the significant
industrial user criteria may, at the discretion of the POTW Director, be
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial
users.
      (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater, shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
      (2)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director's
determination in subsection (B)(1) above. The application shall include, at a
minimum, the information required by 15A NCAC 02H 0.0916 (c) (1)(A-M). In
support of the application, the user shall submit any other information deemed
necessary by the POTW Director to evaluate the permit application. This may
include reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and §
6-2.5(A). The information required by 15 NCAC 02H 0.0916 is:
         (a)   Name of the industrial user;
         (b)   Address of the industrial user;
         (c)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured, or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (i)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules; and
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g).
      (3)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality, as defined in §
6-2.1(B) Definitions and abbreviations, and contain the following certification
statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (4)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate
the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
         (a)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation. The POTW may refer applications to the County POTW Director for
review and comment.
         (b)   Within 60 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or, if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
      (5)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
         (a)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an
on-site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any
pretreatment facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative
determination to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
         (b)   If the staff's tentative determination in subsection (B)(5)(a)
above is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be
made in writing:
            1.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed
to be limited;
            2.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
            3.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
         (c)   The staff shall organize the determinations, made pursuant to
divisions (B)(5)(a) and (b) above and the general permit conditions of the
town, into a significant industrial user permit.
      (6)   Permit supporting documentation. The town staff shall prepare the
following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
         (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with division-approved maximum allowable loadings of the potw,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
         (b)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
            1.   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
            2.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(e)(2).
      (7)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
         (b)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
            1.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
            2.   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            3.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days' notice and
pursuant to subsection (B)(9) below;
            4.   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
6-2.8(A), Administrative remedies;
            5.   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
6-2.8(A), Administrative remedies; and
            6.   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, the discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant, or where necessary to effectuate the
purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
      (8)   Permit modification.
         (a)   Modification of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permits of users' subject to
the standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within
the time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by subsection (B)(2) above, the
user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
         (c)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
      (9)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the
purpose of this article and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain,
but be not limited to, the following:
            1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
            2.   A statement of non-transferability;
            3.   Applicable effluent limits, based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
            4.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record-keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type, based on federal, state and local law;
            5.   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
6-2.1(B), Definitions and abbreviations;
            6.   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads, as defined in §
6-2.1(B) Definitions and abbreviations, if determined by the POTW Director to
be necessary for the user;
            7.   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
6-2.1(B) Definitions and abbreviations. Also see §
6-2.5(E) Reports of changed conditions and (F) Reports of potential problems;
and
            8.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
         (b)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
            1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
            2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
            3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology
or construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
            4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
            5.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
            6.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities and equipment;
            7.   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
            8.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting, within 30 days, where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
            9.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
            10.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
            11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges, as specified in §
6-2.5(M), Record keeping, and affording the POTW Director, or his or her
representatives, access thereto;
            12.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
            13.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process
used by the permittee;
            14.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve
the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable Federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
term of the permit; and
            15.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director
to ensure compliance with this article, and state and Federal laws, rules and
regulations.
      (10)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
      (11)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned, transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises,
or a new or changed operation.
      (12)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance
with subsection (B), Wastewater permits, a minimum of 180 days prior to the
expiration of the existing permit.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.4) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.5 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports.
      (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to, or scheduled to discharge to, the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report containing the information
listed in subsection (A)(2) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the POTW Director a report containing the information listed in
subsection (A)(2) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment
it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
         (b)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
         (c)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram indicating points of discharge to the POTW from the
regulated processes;
         (d)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
subsection (J), Analytical requirements below; and
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in subsection (K), Grab and composite sample collection and surcharges
below and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
         (f)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current
authorized representative, as defined in §
6-2.1(B), Definitions and abbreviations and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
(O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment
standards and requirements;
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in subsection (B), Compliance
schedule progress reports below; and
         (h)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with §
6-2.4(B)(3).
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by subsection (A)(2)(g) Compliance
schedule above.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between the progress
reports to the POTW Director.
   (C)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard,
deadline. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to the pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
POTW Director a report containing the information described in subsections (A)
Baseline monitoring reports and (F) Reports of potential problems of this
section. For users' subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate. For all other users' subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
6-2.4(B)(3) Wastewater permits
   (D)   Periodic compliance reports. The town may sample and analyze user
discharges in lieu of requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined
by the POTW Director, but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in subsections (J) Analytical requirements and (K) Grab and
composite sample collection and surcharges below. All periodic compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
6-2.4(B)(3) Wastewater permits.
      (2)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in subsection (J) Analytical requirements and
(K) Grab and composite sample collection and surcharges below, the results of
this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the POTW Director
of any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which
might alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days
before the change. The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving
written approval from the control authority and/or town. See subsection (F)(4)
under reports of potential problems below for other reporting requirements.
      (1)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
6-2.4(B), Wastewater permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
6-2.4(B) Wastewater permits or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit
under §
6-2.4(B) Wastewater permits in response to changed conditions or anticipated
changed conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater; the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants; increases or decreases to production;
increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge of
pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
   (F)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load, as defined in §
6-2.1(B) Definitions and abbreviations, that may cause potential problems for
the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of
the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
      (2)   Within five days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board,
or other prominent place, advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection (F)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge or a slug load, as defined in §
6-2.1(B) Definitions and abbreviations.
   (G)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW
Director as the POTW Director may require.
   (H)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
      (1)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
must notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is
not required to resample:
         (a)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user's facility at least
once a month; or
         (b)   If the POTW Director samples between the user's initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
      (2)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in
lieu of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a
violation, the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results
of the repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation,
unless one of the following occurs:
         (a)   The POTW Director monitors at the user's facility at least once
a month;
         (b)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial
sampling and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
         (c)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and
submit the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
   (I)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. The town prohibits
the discharge of any hazardous wastes without notification and approval of the
POTW Director.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. The notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of the waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information, to the extent the
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the waste, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of the constituents in the waste stream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste
stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving written
approval from the town. Any notification under this subsection needs to be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications
of changed conditions must be submitted under subsection (E) Reports of changed
conditions above. The notification requirement in this section does not apply
to pollutants already reported by users' subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of subsections (A) Baseline
monitoring reports, (C) Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment
standard, deadline and (D) Periodic compliance reports above.
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection (I)(1)
(under Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste) above, during a
calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous
wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R.
§§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-acute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-
time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than
such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of 42 U.S.C. §§ 6291
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, identifying additional characteristics
of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste,
the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste
Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of
the substance within 90 days of the effective date of the regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or state law.
   (J)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard or unless otherwise performed in accordance with
procedures approved by EPA or the town. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA
and the town. Analyses must be performed by a state certified lab for each
parameter analyzed, if such certification exists for that parameter.
   (K)   Grab and composite sample collection.
      (1)   All samples must be representative. All wastewater samples must be
representative of the user's discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow
measurement facilities shall be properly operated, kept clean and maintained in
good working order at all times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring
facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that
sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (2)   Grab samples. Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds and any other
pollutants as required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the
number of grabs necessary to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR
and 90-day compliance reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow
collection of multiple grabs during a 24-hour period, which are composited
prior to analysis as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow-
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
   (L)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
   (M)   Record keeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
article shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this article, and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of the analyses. These records shall remain available for
a period of at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended
for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where
the user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
POTW Director.
   (N)   Electronic reporting. The POTW Director may develop procedures for
receipt of electronic reports for any reporting requirements of this article.
These procedures shall comply with 40 C.F.R. part 3. These procedures shall be
enforceable under §
6-2.8 Enforcement.
   (O)   Special reporting requirements for industrial users in satellite
POTWs. In the case of an industrial user located in a satellite POTW
organization's jurisdiction, all information required to be reported to the
industrial user's pretreatment program control authority by this article shall
also be reported to the POTW treatment plant organization, labelled to the
attention of the POTW Director.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.5) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.6 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities.
      (1)   The town requires the user to provide and operate, at the user's
own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
town may, when a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling. The town will inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this article is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA, or their representative, ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination and copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The
town, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up, on the user's
property, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with their security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Denial of the town's, the approval authority's, or
the EPA's access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access. In order that user's
employees be informed of town requirements, users shall make available to their
employees' copies of this chapter together with such other wastewater
information and notices as furnished by the town or county which are directed
toward improving water pollution control. Employers shall ensure that all
applicable employees who may cause prohibited discharges are advised of the
emergency notification procedures.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the town, approval authority or EPA has been
refused access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and
is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation
of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify
compliance with this article, or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
the town, approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from
the court having jurisdiction within the town. In order that user's employees
be informed of town requirements, users shall make available to their
employee's copies of this chapter together with such other wastewater
information and notices as furnished by the town or county which are directed
toward improving water pollution control. Employers shall ensure that all
applicable employees who may cause prohibited discharges are advised of the
emergency notification procedures.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.6) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.7 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of such information
would divulge information, processes, or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data in accordance with N.C.
General Statute(s).
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.7) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.8 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies.
      (1)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that
any industrial user has violated or is violating this article, wastewater
permit, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein, or
any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon that
person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days
from the date of this notice, the user shall submit to the town an explanation
for the violation and a plan for its satisfactory correction. Submission of
this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders. The Town Manager is hereby authorized to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
The orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to subsection (A)(4) below.
      (3)   Show cause hearing.
         (a)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this article, or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit, to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user, specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for the action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally, or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested), at least ten days before the hearing. Service may
be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
         (b)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
         (c)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under subsection (B), Civil penalties below,
nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this section
subject to an administrative appeal under § 6-2.10 Adjudicatory hearings.
      (4)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this article, permits or
orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW
Director may issue an order to cease and desist all violations, and direct
those persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
         (b)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth
in the order;
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and
         (d)   Disconnect, unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a
specified time period.
      (5)   Emergency suspensions.
         (a)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit, when the suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted, or the user's waste
discharge permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the POTW Director shall take steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW
Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-compliant discharge. The
industrial user shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described
hearing.
      (6)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
         (a)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including but not limited to, the
following reasons:
            1.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
            2.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
            3.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
            4.   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this article, or any applicable state and Federal
regulations.
         (b)   Non-compliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permits and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under this subsection(A) why the proposed action should not be
taken.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision
of this article, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
         (a)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may
be assessed against a violator only if:
            1.   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
            2.   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as
the case may be, any documents, data or reports required by this article, or
the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
         (b)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW
Director shall consider the following:
            1.   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
            2.   The duration and gravity of the violation;
            3.   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality, or
on air quality;
            4.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
            5.   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
            6.   Whether the violation was committed willfully or
intentionally;
            7.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
            8.   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (2)   Continuing violations of §
6-2.2(I) Pretreatment of wastewater will be subject to fines of $500 per day
until corrections are made and there are no other violations of that division.
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
6-2.10 Adjudicatory hearings.
   (C)   Other available remedies. In addition to those previously mentioned in
this chapter, remedies are available to the POTW Director, who may use any
single one or combination against a non- compliant user. Additional available
remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the applicable
judicial district may, at the request of the town, prosecute non-compliant
users who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. (Note: Under state law,
it is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit issued by local
governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term, condition or
requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments, or knowingly
fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that a person is
placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury (G.S. § 143-2I5.6B
(h)), and to falsify information required under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21 (G.S. §
143-215.6B(i)).
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this article or an order or permit issued hereunder, the Town
Manager, on the recommendation of the POTW Director, may direct the Town
Attorney to petition the superior court for the issuance of a restraining order
or a preliminary and permanent injunction which restrains or compels the
activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this article, or an order or permit issued hereunder,
water service to the industrial user may be severed, and service will only
recommence, at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated
ability to comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the Town Manager on the recommendation of the POTW Director. Any person(s)
creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the
appropriate ordinances of the town governing the nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
the nuisance.
   (D)   Remedies non-exclusive. The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The POTW Director may take any, all or any combination of these
actions against a non-compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations
will generally be in accordance with the town's enforcement response plan.
However, the POTW Director may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more
than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.8) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.9 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
    At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish, in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users found to
be in significant noncompliance, also defined to as “significant noncompliance”
in 15A NCAC 02H.0903(b)(31), with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.9) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.10 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   Hearings. The town may conduct hearings in accordance with its regular
hearing procedure.
   (A)   Adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied, or is
granted subject to conditions the applicant deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
6-2.8(B) Civil penalties, or one issued an administrative order under §
6-2.8(A) Civil penalties, shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing
before the POTW Director or other hearing officer appointed by the POTW
Director (herein, the "hearing officer"), upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30
days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless the written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding and further
appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the permit being
modified may be adjudicated. The hearing officer shall make a final decision on
the contested permit, penalty or order within 45 days of the receipt of the
written demand for a hearing and shall transmit a copy of the decision by
registered or certified mail, as described in subsection (B) below. The
decision is a final decision for the purposes of seeking judicial review. The
terms and conditions of a permit under appeal shall be as follows:
      (1)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the general
courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed, and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (3)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   (B)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under subsection (A)
above, the hearing officer shall prepare an official record of the case that
includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the hearing officer.
   (C)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the hearing officer is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under
subsection (A) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by
filing a written request for review by the Superior Court of Davie County,
within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or certified mail of the
order or decision, but not thereafter, along with a copy to the hearing officer
and the town. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written request
for review by the Court, the hearing officer shall transmit to the reviewing
court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
(Adopted 7-1-2014; Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.11 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of subsection (A)(2) below, are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred, and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner, and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards, upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored, or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
6-2.2(C) Prohibited discharge standards ) of this article, or the specific
prohibitions in §
6-2.2(C)(2)(b), (c), (e) through (g) of this chapter, if it can prove that it
did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference, and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged, and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of subsections (C)(2) and (3) below.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards, within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report, on
a case-by-case basis, if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed, in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment, to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection (C)(2)
above.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in subsection (C)(3)(a) above.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.10) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this article is invalidated
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and
effect.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.11) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
§ 6-2.13 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency or conflict.
(2003 Code, § 6-2.12) (Adopted 4-26-1994; Amended 7-3-2007; Amended 7-1-2014;
Amended 12-3-2019)
ARTICLE 3: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
6-3.1   Definitions
   
6-3.2   Containers—required; specifications
   
6-3.3   Same—failure to use
   
6-3.4   Pre-collection practices
   
6-3.5   Placement of garbage and refuse; collection; removal of container after
collection
   
6-3.6   Scrap building materials, tree trunks not to be collected
   
6-3.7   Disposal of industrial refuse
   
6-3.8   Burning or burying garbage and refuse
   
6-3.9   Rates, schedules and frequency of pickup
§ 6-3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign or
other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All animal, fruit and vegetable matter, and all cans, glassware,
crockery, bags and other containers in which any matter has been kept or
stored.
   INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. Sawdust, shavings, feathers, excelsior, cartons, boxes,
metal, glass, paper, wood, textiles, chemicals, plastic or other waste
materials from processing plants, factories or manufacturing operations.
   REFUSE. All trash, debris, floor sweepings, ashes, cinders or other matter,
except garbage, industrial refuse, building material scraps and tree trimmings
as defined in this section.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery trimmings and cuttings and all
other trimmings from the natural growth of trees, shrubbery, weeds, plants or
grass.
(1989 Code, § 10-90; 2003 Code, § 6-3.1)
§ 6-3.2 CONTAINERS—REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The occupant of every residential building or premises where garbage
or refuse does or may exist shall use the one container provided by the
contractor with the town. Only one container per address will be allowed.
Garbage or refuse outside of the container is not permitted and will not be
picked up. All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean manner.
   (B)   Each commercial establishment shall provide an eight-yard dumpster as
approved by the town.
(1989 Code, § 10-91; 2003 Code, § 6-3.2) (Amended 9-28-2016)
§ 6-3.3 SAME—FAILURE TO USE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any
garbage or refuse of any kind in any place or on any public or private
property, except in approved containers or as otherwise provided in this
article.
   (B)   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this article and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(1989 Code, § 10-92; 2003 Code, § 6-3.3)
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
5-5.4
§ 6-3.4 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   All garbage shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other material before it is placed in the container for
collection on the curb.
   (B)   Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container and no ashes
shall be deposited in any container until they are cold.
(1989 Code, § 10-93; 2003 Code, § 6-3.4) (Amended 9-28-2016)
§ 6-3.5 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE; COLLECTION; REMOVAL OF CONTAINER AFTER
COLLECTION.
   (A)   Containers, as required in this article, shall be placed on the
premises as designated by the town personnel.
   (B)   Garbage and refuse will be collected and removed from approved
containers in accordance with the published schedule in the residential
districts.
   (C)   Garbage and refuse will be removed from the business districts
pursuant to the published schedule.
   (D)   On the days designated for collection, containers shall be in place
prior to 6:00 a.m. When required, containers after they have been emptied shall
be returned to the place designated if the containers are to be emptied from a
place on the public streets. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner or occupant to return the container after it has been emptied to the
designated place.
(1989 Code, § 10-94; 2003 Code, § 6-3.5) (Amended 9-28-2016)
§ 6-3.6 SCRAP BUILDING MATERIALS, TREE TRUNKS NOT TO BE COLLECTED.
   Scrap building materials and tree trunks will not, under any circumstances,
be collected by the town. Removal and disposal of these items is the
responsibility of the property owner.
(1989 Code, § 10-96; 2003 Code, § 6-3.7)
§ 6-3.7 DISPOSAL OF INDUSTRIAL REFUSE.
   (A)   Industrial refuse will not be collected by the town, unless a special
contract therefor is entered into by the town and the property owner.
   (B)   The contracts shall specify the charges for collection and specify in
detail the type wastes to be collected and disposed of.
(1989 Code, § 10-97; 2003 Code, § 6-3.8)
§ 6-3.8 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for the
purpose of disposal.
(1989 Code, § 10-98; 2003 Code, § 6-3.9)
Cross-reference:
   Open burning generally, see §§
5-2.1. et seq.
§ 6-3.9 RATES, SCHEDULES AND FREQUENCY OF PICKUP.
   The town shall determine rates, fees, schedules and frequency of pickup from
time to time.
(1989 Code, § 10-99; 2003 Code, § 6-3.10)
ARTICLE 4: GREASE INTERCEPTORS
Section
   
6-4.1   Objective
   
6-4.2   Definitions
   
6-4.3   Grease interceptor installation; maintenance; record keeping and grease
removal
   
6-4.4   Existing facilities
   
6-4.5   Violations and penalties
§ 6-4.1 OBJECTIVE.
   This article is intended to aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions caused by the discharge and contribution of fats,
oils and grease into the town's wastewater collection system from industrial,
commercial and institutional establishments, particularly food preparation and
serving facilities.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 6-4.2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL GREASE AND OIL GENERATING ESTABLISHMENT. Any user that
has the potential to use, contribute to or otherwise impact the town's
wastewater collection system with oil bearing, grease bearing or flammable
production and discharge. Such establishments include, but are not limited to,
maintenance facilities, repair facilities and equipment cleaning facilities.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
activities of cooking, preparing, serving or otherwise making available for
consumption of foodstuffs, and which uses one or more of the following cooking
or preparation activities: cooking or preparation by frying (all methods),
baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling,
boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or poaching. Also included are infrared
heating, searing, barbecuing and any other food preparation activity that
produces hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a receptacle that requires
washing, rinsing or other form of cleaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Town of Mocksville Public Utilities
Department.
   GREASE. All grease including; grease complexes, fats, oils, derived from
animal and/or plant sources.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A plumbing device designed to intercept most grease and
solids before they enter a wastewater disposal system. GREASE INTERCEPTOR shall
be of type and capacity approved by Utility Director or his or her designee and
meet State Plumbing Codes.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENT. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not require or involve any form of
cooking. The establishments include, but are not limited to, establishments
that are primarily engaged in the rendering preparation of cold dairy and
frozen foodstuffs.
   TOWN OF MOCKSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT. The authority having the
jurisdiction of the town water and sewer system.
   USER. Any person primarily engaged in any commercial, industrial,
institutional or other nonresidential activity who introduces, contributes or
discharges (or causes or permits the introduction, contribution or discharge
of) wastewater into the town's wastewater collection system including, but not
limited to, any person who introduces, contributes or discharges wastewater
into the wastewater collection system.
   WASTEWATER. Any substance introduced, contributed to or discharged into the
town's waste water/sewer collection system.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 6-4.3 GREASE INTERCEPTOR INSTALLATION; MAINTENANCE; RECORD KEEPING AND GREASE
REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users as required by this
article. Grease interceptors shall be installed at the user's expense, when the
user operates a cooking establishment and or a commercial/industrial grease and
oil generating establishment grease interceptors may also be required in non-
cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments and other
industrial, commercial or institutional establishments when they are deemed
necessary by the Director or his or her designee for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease.
   (B)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity
approved by the Director or his or her designee and shall be readily and easily
accessible for user cleaning and town inspection. No grease interceptors shall
be less than 1,000-gallon capacity unless otherwise approved by the Town
Manager.
   (C)   All grease interceptors shall be subject to review, evaluation and
inspection by the Director or designee during normal working hours. Results of
inspections will be made available to the user. The Director or designee may
make recommendations for correction and improvement.
   (D)   All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated
waste contents as required in order to maintain minimum design capacity or
effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less than every 30 days.
Waste removed from grease interceptors shall not be discharged into the town's
sanitary sewer system. The user shall be responsible for the disposal of such
waste.
   (E)   The user shall maintain a written record of the grease interceptor for
three years. All records will be available for inspection by the Director or
his or her designee on site at all times. The user shall also submit written
reports of the maintenance when requested by the town.
   (F)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (G)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow and infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 6-4.4 EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All existing facilities shall have grease interceptors approved by the
Town Manager or designee. In the event an existing cooking establishment's and
or commercial/industrial grease and oil generating establishment's grease
interceptor is either less than or of a substandard design in accordance with
this article, the user will be notified in writing by certified mail of the
deficiencies and required improvements with a compliance deadline not to exceed
90 days from notification date.
   (B)   Failure to comply will be considered a violation of this article,
subject to penalties and corrective actions including discontinuance of
services with the Town Public Utilities Department.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 6-4.5 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user found to be in violation shall be notified in writing through
certified mail of any noncompliance and will be required to provide a schedule
where by corrections will be completed. Users known to be in violation may be
subject to civil fines up to $500, per day until actions are taken to prevent
the violations from recurring.
   (B)   Users whose operations cause or allow excessive grease to discharge or
accumulate in the town wastewater collection and treatment system may be liable
for costs incurred by the town including, but not limited to, service calls for
sewer line blockages, line cleaning, line and pump repairs including all labor,
materials and equipment. Failure to pay all service related charges may also be
grounds for additional civil fines and /or discontinuance of services from the
Town Public Utilities Department.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010; Amended 1-4-2022)
ARTICLE 5: BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
   
6-5.1   Objectives
   
6-5.2   Definitions
   
6-5.3   Elimination of cross-connections
   
6-5.4   Installation, testing and maintenance of backflow prevention assemblies
   
6-5.5   New commercial and industrial facilities and methods of correction
   
6-5.6   Existing commercial and industrial facilities and methods of correction
   
6-5.7   New residential lawn irrigation systems
   
6-5.8   Existing residential lawn irrigation systems
   
6-5.9   Imminent hazards
   
6-5.10   Right of entry
   
6-5.11   Responsibility of customer
   
6-5.12   Unapproved source of supply
   
6-5.13   Violations
§ 6-5.1 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the intent of this article to recognize that there are varying
degrees of hazard to potable water within the public water system. It is also
the intent to insure the degree of protection be the same as the degree of
hazard.
   (B)   The purpose of this article is:
      (1)   To protect the town's public water supply against actual or
potential cross-connections, backflow and back-siphonage by isolating, within
the premises or private property, contamination or pollution that has occurred
or may occur because of an undiscovered or unauthorized cross-connection on the
premises or private property;
      (2)   To eliminate or control cross-connections, backflow and back-
siphonage or any other source of water or process water used for any purpose
whatsoever which may jeopardize the safety of the town's public water supply;
and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections, that may occur in the future.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. An APPROVED AIR-GAP SEPARATION shall be at least double the
diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation be less
than one inch.
   APPROVED. In reference to backflow prevention assemblies or methods:
assemblies or methods which have been accepted by the Director or his or her
designee as an effective means or method to prevent backflow.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water, liquid, gas or other substances, or any
combination thereof, into the distribution piping of a potable water supply
from any source or sources.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved assembly or method used to prevent
backflow from occurring in the potable water supply.
   BACK-PRESSURE BACKFLOW. Backflow caused by a pump, elevated tank, boiler or
other means that could create pressure with the system greater than the supply
pressure.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW. A reversal of the normal direction flow in the
pipeline due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line
with the backflow source subject atmospheric pressure.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul and prepare reports on backflow prevention assemblies as
evidenced by certification of successful completion of a training program
approved by the state. Each person who is certified to make competent tests, or
to repair, overhaul and make reports on backflow prevention assemblies shall be
knowledgeable of applicable laws, rules and regulations. The Town Public
Utilities Department must approve all CERTIFIED TESTERS prior to use of their
services.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER. Any person, firm or corporation using or receiving water
from Town Public Utilities Department.
   CONTAINMENT. Prevention of possible contamination from a private water
system by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly.
   CONTAMINATION. The degradation of the quality of water so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of water.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between the town's water supply
system and any other source. This includes piping systems, sewer fixtures,
containers or devices whereby water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
may flow into or enter the county's water supply system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION INSPECTOR/ORC. An employee of the Town Public Utilities
Department designated by the Director to administer and enforce the provisions
of this article.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Derived from an evaluation of the health, hazard, system,
plumbing or pollution hazards.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Town Public Utilities Department.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the assembly and suitable connections for testing
the water-tightness of each check valve.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved double check valve assembly with a bypass water meter and a meter-
sized approved double check valve device. The meter shall register accurately
for very low flow rates and shall register all flow rates.
   HIGH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination to the public
water system or to a private water system to a degree or intensity that there
could be a danger to health.
   IMM1NENT HAZARD. An actual threat of contamination that presents a danger to
the public health with consequences of serious illness or death.
   LOW HAZARD. One that presents foreseeable and significant potential for
pollution, nuisance aesthetically objectionable or other undesirable
alterations of the drinking water supply.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system (i.e. where the Public Utilities Department loses sole
jurisdiction over the water); the point where water leaves the public water
system and enters a private water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the state.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A system of pipes or other associated facilities that
is not part of the town's public water system and is used to move or receive
water, regardless of the source of water in the system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY. Also referred to as RP or RPZ. A
mechanical assembly consisting of four test cocks, two shut-off valves, two
independently operating, spring loaded check valves with a reduced pressure
zone between the checks. The zone contains a relief port that will open to
atmosphere if the pressure in the zone falls within two psi of the supply
pressure. The assembly provides protection against both back-pressure and back-
siphonage.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE-DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly with a bypass
water meter and a meter-sized approved reduced pressure principle device. The
meter shall register accurately for very low flow rates and shall register all
flow rates.
   TOWN OF MOCKSVILLE PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT. The authority having the
jurisdiction of the town water and sewer system.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public potable water supply which has been
investigated and approved by the appropriate agency of the state. The system
must be operating under a valid health permit.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.3 ELIMINATION OF CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No private water system may be connected in any manner to the public
water system unless the requirements of this article and other applicable laws
have been satisfied.
   (B)   Only an approved device can be installed to meet the requirements of
this article. The installation of any backflow prevention assembly which is not
approved must be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.4 INSTALLATION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions. Only backflow preventers approved by Town
Public Utilities Department and meeting the State Plumbing Code shall be
installed.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this article must be
installed and maintained above ground on the customer's premises as part of the
customer's water system.
   (C)   Ownership, testing and maintenance of the backflow prevention assembly
will be the responsibility of the customer. Each assembly required in this
article must be functioning properly at all times.
   (D)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be conducted by a
certified tester (approved by Town Public Utilities Department) at the
customer's expense. Tests shall be conducted upon installation and annually
thereafter with a record of all testing and repairs retained by the customer on
site. A copy of the certified record for each test or repair must be sent to
the Town Public Utilities Department by such customer within 30 days after the
completion of each test or repair. The records must be maintained on forms
provided by the Town Public Utilities Department.
   (E)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this article must be
accessible (above ground) to the Town Public Utilities Department.
   (F)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the customer shall
provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly, the Director or his or her designee will not accept an unprotected
bypass around a backflow preventer when the assembly is in need of testing,
repair or replacement.
   (G)   Any time that repairs to backflow assemblies are deemed necessary,
through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner, the repairs must be
completed within a time specified in accordance with the degree of hazard.
Repairs on a private water system considered to be an imminent hazard shall be
completed within 24 hours, a high hazard shall be completed within ten days,
and all other repairs within 20 days for any other private water system.
Failure to comply can result in termination of a customer's water service.
   (H)   Upon determination that a backflow prevention assembly is required to
be installed on a customer's private water system, the customer will be
notified in writing of the approved backflow prevention assembly which is
required. On existing systems, the customer will have the following time
periods within which to install the specified backflow prevention assembly:
      (1)   Air-gap separation: 30 days;
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle assembly (three-fourths-inch by two
inches): 30 days;
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle assembly (two and one-half-inch and
larger): 60 days; and
      (4)   Other approved backflow prevention assembly: 30 days.
   (I)   The Director or his or her designee may require the installation of
the required backflow prevention assembly immediately or within a shorter time
period than specified above if he determines that any condition poses an
unreasonable threat of contamination to the public water supply system. All
devices required for new construction shall be inspected by the Director or his
or her designee prior to occupancy. All new construction plans and
specifications shall be made available to the Director for approval and to
determine the degree of hazard.
   (J)   The Director shall be notified by the customer when the nature of the
use of property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the
property if necessary.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.5 NEW COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES AND METHODS OF CORRECTION.
   All new commercial or industrial facilities are required to install a RP as
a minimum containment device on all connections to the public water supply.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.6 EXISTING COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES AND METHODS OF
CORRECTION.
   (A)   All existing commercial or industrial facilities with no cross-
connection protection will install an RP as a minimum containment device on all
connections to the public water supply.
   (B)   All existing commercial or industrial facilities with inadequate
cross-connection protection will install an RP as a minimum containment device
on all connections to the public water supply.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.7 NEW RESIDENTIAL LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   All new residential irrigation systems are required to install a RP as a
minimum containment device.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.8 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   All existing residential irrigation systems with inadequate cross-connection
protection will install an RP as a minimum containment device.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.9 IMMINENT HAZARDS.
   If the Director and/or Cross-Connection ORC determines that a customer's
private water system constitutes an imminent hazard, the customer shall install
a backflow prevention assembly as may be specified by the Town Public Utilities
Department within 24 hours after notice of the determination. If the customer
fails to take corrective measures in a timely manner, or refuses to install the
specified assembly, water service to the customer's private water system may be
terminated. If the Director or his or her designee is unable to give notice to
the customer or his or her representative within 24 hours after the
determination that an imminent hazard exists, despite reasonable efforts to
provide the notice, the Town Public Utilities Department may terminate water
service to the private water system until the specified corrected measures are
taken. Upon correction of the existing problem and with the inspector's
approval, water service will be continued.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or his or her designee shall have the right to enter any
building, structure or premises during normal working hours to perform any duty
imposed upon him or her by this article.
   (B)   Duties may include sampling and testing water, or inspections and
observations of all piping systems connected to the public water supply. Prior
notice will be given unless an imminent hazard has been reported. Refusal to
allow entry for these purposes may result in termination of the water service.
   (C)   At the request of the Director or his or her designee, the customer
shall furnish any pertinent information regarding the piping and chemical
storage on the property where cross-connections are deemed possible.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for the elimination of or protection
against all cross-connections on his or her premises.
   (B)   The customer shall maintain any backflow prevention assembly within
his or her premise in good operating condition. The customer shall correct any
malfunction of the backflow prevention which is revealed by periodic testing.
   (C)   The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees for
initial testing, annual testing, re-testing in the case that the assembly fails
to operate correctly, and repairs.
   (D)   A customer must immediately notify the Town Public Utilities
Department if the customer has reason to believe that backflow has occurred
from the customer's private water system to the public water system.
   (E)   A customer shall send a copy of all test results within thirty days to
Town Public Utilities.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.12 UNAPPROVED SOURCE OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the state to the public water supply system.
   (B)   Where a connection to a town water line is made, and the property
owner continues to have a well or other source of water, it shall be unlawful
for the plumbing servicing any building upon the property to be so connected
that any water outlet within the building may be served with water from any
source other than the town connection, and it shall also be unlawful to have
plumbing cross-connected or so installed that water from the town water system
or the private water system may in any way become intermingled.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010)
§ 6-5.13 VIOLATIONS
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of this article.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the violation and the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be corrected within a
reasonable time, as specified in the notice, not to exceed 30 days from receipt
of the violation notice. If the Director and/or Cross-Connection ORC determine
that the violation is occurring on a customer's private water system and that
the violation has created or contributed to the existence of an imminent
hazard, the customer may be required to correct the violation immediately.
   (C)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails to
correct a violation or to pay any civil penalty or expense assessed under this
article. Termination of water service will be without prejudice to the town's
ability to assert any other remedy available to the town against the customer
or any other person responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Each violation to be considered a one-time civil violation subject to
the following schedule:
      (1)   Any tester who falsifies records will lose his or her approved
tester status and/or be subject to a $500 civil penalty;
      (2)   Submitting incomplete records or failing to submit records may
cause the tester to be removed from the approved tester list and/or $250 civil
penalty;
      (3)   Failing to test backflow prevention assemblies as required is $100
per day;
      (4)   Failing to maintain backflow prevention assemblies as required is
$100 per day; and
      (5)   Any other violation of this article is $100.
   (E)   The Director may increase any civil penalty assessed under this
article by $100 or 50% of the maximum civil penalty associated with the
violation, whichever is greater for a second violation of the same provision
within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a third
violation of the same provision within a two-year period. Any person violating
any provision of this article shall pay to the town all expenses incurred by
the town in repairing any damage to the public water system caused in whole or
in part by the violation and any expense incurred by the town in investigating
the violation. All expenses are deemed to be a part of the civil penalty
assessed with the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010; Amended 1-4-2022)
ARTICLE 6: WATER AND SEWER UTILITY EXTENSIONS
Section
   
6-6.1   Purpose of article
   
6-6.2   Activities requiring a permit
   
6-6.3   Justification for system extensions and modifications
   
6-6.4   Procedures and standards for system extensions inside the town limits
   
6-6.5   Procedures and standards for extensions of town utilities outside the
town limits and/or treatment of wastewater collected by other entities
   
6-6.6   Standards for over-sizing town utilities extensions
   
6-6.7   Pre-construction conference required when town utilities are over-sized
   
6-6.8   Modifications and revocations of approvals
   
6-6.9   Video assessment
   
6-6.10   Donation/acceptance of extensions to the town
   
6-6.11   Enforcement
   
6-6.12   Infrastructure reimbursement agreements
§ 6-6.1 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   The purpose of this article is to set forth, in a single source, the
permitting application requirements and processes for water distribution system
and wastewater collection system extension and modification, and regulatory
requirements that apply to facilities that interconnect with the town's water
and sewer systems. This article is authorized by G.S. § 160A-312(b).
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.2 ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   No person shall do any of the things or carry out any of the activities
listed in G.S. § 143-215.1(a), or any of the activities in divisions (B)(1)
through (3) below for a system which is, or is proposed to become,
interconnected to the town's water distribution system or wastewater collection
system, unless such person shall have applied for and received:
   (A)   From the town an approval to extend and connect; and
   (B)   From the appropriate permitting agency, a permit and shall have
complied with such conditions, if any, as are prescribed by such permit.
Activities prohibited without a permit generally include but are not limited to
the following divisions (1) through (3) below. The state requires a permit for:
      (1)   Construction or operation of any water system or sanitary sewer
system; or
      (2)   Alteration, extension, or modification of the construction or
method of operation of any existing or proposed water distribution system or
wastewater collection system; or
      (3)   Execution of a contract for the construction and installation of
any town-owned water distribution system or wastewater collection system or for
the modification, alteration or extension of such a system. (See 15 A N.C.
Administrative Code 2H.0100.)
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.3 JUSTIFICATION FOR SYSTEM EXTENSIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   The town recognizes four justifications for the extension or modification of
the water distribution and/or wastewater collection systems.
   (A)   Extensions and modifications for the health, safety, and welfare of
the public. The town water distribution or wastewater collection system
(together the "town utilities") may be extended or modified to provide public
utility access to persons when their existing system has failed and is
resulting in a demonstrated health risk to them and/or the public.
   (B)   Extensions and modifications in fulfillment of the annual budget.
      (1)   The town shall provide and maintain certain basic components of the
town utilities. These components include treatment facilities, water booster
pump stations, wastewater pump stations, water storage tanks, sewer outfall
mains, and water transmission mains. Extensions or modifications to these
components may be constructed and/or improved according to a budget ordinance
that is approved by the Town Board of Commissioners (the "Board of
Commissioners" or "Board").
      (2)   The town may also extend or modify water distribution mains and
sewer collection mains to serving existing dwellings, non-residential buildings
or vacant lots, within the municipal limits of the town upon approval by the
Board of Commissioners. The town's financial participation in utility extension
and modification projects is subject to the availability of funds and other
qualifications.
   (C)   Extensions and modifications by private parties within the town
limits. Any property owner or other person holding an interest in real property
may extend utilities at their own expense as provided in §
6-6.4.
   (D)   Extensions and modifications by any party who provides wastewater
collection services. Any property owner or other person holding an interest in
real property who receives wastewater collection services through an
intermediary, such as a private or public entity who provides waste water
collection services may extend utilities at their own expense as provided in §
6-6.4, provided that the town provides sewer treatment services.
   (E)   Extensions and modifications for annexation areas. The town shall meet
all requirements related to annexations as prescribed by G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 4A, Parts 1 and 7. The town shall provide the same level of service to
newly-annexed areas that is available to the remainder of the town, as provided
by the town's adopted ordinances and policies.
(Adopted 7-10-2018; Amended 6-1-2020)
§ 6-6.4 PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR SYSTEM EXTENSIONS INSIDE THE TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Introduction. The town may provide water and sewer service to areas
incorporated within the municipal limits of the town according to the
provisions of this chapter. Consideration shall be given to each project's
conformance with any adopted land use and other plans of the town. If an
extension is authorized, then an application shall be made to N.C. DEQ. If a
reimbursement agreement AND an extension are authorized, the reimbursement
agreement is authorized, it shall meet the requirements of §
6-6.6.
   (B)   Prior to application submittal. Plats, site plans, engineering plans
and specifications shall be approved through the appropriate review process, as
required by the North Carolina General Statutes and town ordinances, including
the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   All persons intending to construct, alter, modify, or expand any
town utilities as described in this section shall make timely and proper
application to the Town Manager or designee. At a minimum, the applicant shall:
         (a)   Provide a plan that shows the acreage of the area to be served,
identify the type of development (residential, commercial etc.), estimates the
maximum potential demands that the development may impose on the existing
system; and
         (b)   Provide a proposed schedule for the construction of the
development and any proposed development phases;
         (c)   Document the intended use of the water and sewer system
extension;
         (d)   Apply to N.C. Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ") for
the required permits;
         (e)   Grant to the town, at no cost, all on-site utility rights-of-way
and easements deemed necessary by Town Manager or designee.
   (D)   Any application determined incomplete by the Town Manager shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   Funding of oversized utilities. The town shall take reasonable steps
to ensure that adequate funding is available to accommodate any requested
oversizing or upsizing needs, as provided in §
6-6.6 below, however the town cannot guarantee the funding of specific proposed
projects.
   (F)   Review and approval. The Town Manager will review and approve or deny
application, unless the proposal requires a capital investment by the town or
over-sizing agreement, in which case the proposal will be reviewed and
considered by the Board of Commissioners. The Manager will place complete
applications with the proposed capital investment and/or oversize agreement on
the next regularly scheduled Board meeting agenda.
   (G)   Appeal to Board of Commissioners. If the Town Manager denies an
extension request, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Board of
Commissioners.
   (H)   Standards for town utilities extensions. The standards are divided
into two categories. The categories are the standards for extensions to new or
existing developments, and extensions to non-contiguous or satellite
annexations. In any case, the town shall not participate in the cost of the
water distribution mains or sewer collection interceptors located within the
subdivision or private development property, unless upsizing is required by the
town in accordance with §
6-6.6.
      (1)   Standards for in-town extensions to new subdivisions and other
developments, including previously developed properties, in contiguous portions
of the town.
         (a)   Subject to the provisions of this article, the town shall allow
extensions to and within new developments upon the request of the developer or
property owner. The responsibility for and cost of such extension within new
developments shall be borne by the requesting party, unless upsizing is
required by the town in accordance with §
6-6.6.
         (b)   Subject to the provisions of this article, the town shall allow
extensions to new developments within the town upon the request of the owner or
owner's agent, and the responsibility for and cost of such extensions shall be
borne by the requesting party.
            1.   If the town requires lines to a subdivision or other new
development that are larger than those necessary to serve the project, the town
shall reimburse the owner or developer for any additional material and
installation costs incurred because of installing such oversized lines,
according to the provisions of §
6-6.6.
            2.   Where a proposed development of property located within the
town necessitates a replacement, upgrade, or expansion in size or capacity of
water and/or sewer mains and appurtenant facilities that are already available
to serve the property (as opposed to an extension of a line to make service
available), and the replacement, upgrade, or expansion for the proposed
development cannot be constructed in the time requested by the owner or
developer the town may enter into a contract with the owner or developer of
such property pursuant to which the owner or developer shall pay some or all of
the cost of the necessary improvements, according to the provisions of §
6-6.6.
      (2)   Standards for in-town extensions to new subdivisions and other new
developments in non-contiguous portions of the town. The town shall allow
extensions to and within new developments and/or subdivisions located in
annexed property which is non-contiguous to the corporate limits upon request
of the property owner or developer; and the entire cost of extending water and/
or sewer line(s) shall be borne by the developer/property owner requesting such
extension. The town shall pay the proportional share of installing oversized
lines that may be required by the town to meet system-wide needs.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.5 PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR EXTENSIONS OF TOWN UTILITIES OUTSIDE THE
TOWN LIMITS AND/OR TREATMENT OF WASTEWATER COLLECTED BY OTHER ENTITIES.
   (A)   Introduction. The purpose of this section is to provide the criteria
for the provision of utility extensions and/or waste water treatment for sewage
collected by other wastewater collection systems outside of the incorporated
limits of the town. Developers, private enterprises, and other entities that
wish to extend Mocksville utilities, or to increase wastewater flow to town
wastewater treatment plant(s) shall, in all cases, follow the guidelines
established in the specifications and this chapter. The town shall evaluate the
overall impact of the proposed extension. The potential negative impact on
treatment plant capacity, the hydraulics of the water distribution system, and
the capacity of the wastewater collection system will also be considered. In
addition, the effect of premature growth and development shall be considered as
it relates to the town's adopted plans.
      (1)   The town has no responsibility to provide water and/or sewer
service to property located outside the town limits, except as otherwise
provided by law. However, upon request, the town may:
         (a)   Allow extensions of its water and/or sewer lines to serve
properties outside the town; and/or
         (b)   Treat additional flow from wastewater collection systems not
owned by the town when it determines that it is in the town's best interest to
do so. Properties located outside the town limits that receive water and/or
sewer service(s) from the town may not be entitled to receive other town
services.
      (2)   The town's approval of extensions to property located outside of
the town's jurisdiction or the treatment of wastewater collected by others
shall be in conformity with all applicable town, state, and Federal laws,
policies, and regulations.
      (3)   The town shall not be responsible for providing water and sewer
service in areas located within another entity's jurisdiction or service area
defined by contract or inter-local agreement between the town and the entity.
      (4)   If water or sewer service is requested outside the town's limits,
the property owner and/or applicant is required to petition for annexation into
the town and/or the area may be required to be formally incorporated by an
ordinance of the town council prior to the extension of services.
   (B)   Application process.
      (1)   The town shall consider the approval of extensions outside the town
limits or treatment of wastewater collected by other entities upon submission
of an application consisting of a:
         (a)   Plan showing the acreage of the area to be served, identifying
the type of development (residential, commercial etc.), estimates the maximum
potential demands that the development may impose on the existing system;
         (b)   An annexation petition pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Art 4A, Part 1
Extension by Petition.
         (c)   A complete application for zoning approval.
         (d)   If applicable, a developer contract detailing the conditions for
the provision of water and sewer services, including treatment, subject to the
requirements of §§
6-6.6 and
6-6.12, approval of the Town Board of Commissioners; and
         (e)   If applicable a grant (or agreement to grant) to the Town of
Mocksville, at no cost, all on-site utility rights-of-way and easements deemed
necessary by the Town Manager and Mocksville Utilities staff.
      (2)   Any application package determined incomplete by the Town Manager
shall be returned to the applicant. A complete application package that
contains sufficient information to ascertain reasonable grounds to believe the
application package and its contents meet all applicable standards of this
chapter shall be acknowledged by a letter setting a date for review and
decision by the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The staff shall review the preliminary application and forward a
recommendation to the Town Board of Commissioners. If the application consists
solely of an annexation petition, the Town Manager will forward the annexation
petition to the Board upon receipt.
      (4)   The Town Board of Commissioners may consider the annexation
petition, any other information and the recommendation of the staff together or
separately. The Town Board may approve, approve in part, approve with
conditions, or deny the application.
      (5)   If applicable, the Town Board may consider each component of the
application at the same, or different meetings. The applications will be
considered at the same meeting by the Town Board in this order:
         (a)   Annexation;
         (b)   Zoning;
         (c)   Utility extension(s); and
         (d)   A developer contract.
(Adopted 7-10-2018; Amended 6-1-2020)
§ 6-6.6 STANDARDS FOR OVER-SIZING TOWN UTILITIES EXTENSIONS.
   Subject to Board of Commissioners approval as provided in §§
6-6.5 and
6-6.6, the town shall allow extensions within new developments upon the request
of the developer or property owner. The responsibility for and cost of such
extensions shall be borne by the requesting party, except as provided below.
   (A)   If town planning documents and engineering calculations demonstrate
that a larger capacity extension or modification to the town utilities will be
needed to serve a surrounding area, the town may elect to require the owner or
developer to design and install larger diameter pipes than those required to
serve the subdivision or private development. The owner or developer shall
request and receive bids from at least three contractors for the installation
and materials required to serve the subdivision or private development with
water and wastewater collection and bid the pipe sizes requested by the town as
an alternate. If the town elects to require the developer to up-size pipe
diameters to accommodate future town utilities service demands, the town may
pay the developer in an amount, as negotiated between the town and owner or
developer, based on the difference between the base bid and the alternate bid.
Any reimbursement shall be by developer contract. Such developer contract shall
be written to provide an equitable distribution of the cost of improvements to
the town's system(s) consistent with the policies and fees established in this
chapter, or other ordinance(s) and in consideration of the relative burden
placed upon the system by the proposed development, the extent to which other
town customers may benefit from the improvement, the extent to which fees maybe
or have been paid by others for future improvements, the requirements of §
6-6.12 and other relevant factors.
   (B)   The total amount to be reimbursed to the developer, owner, or
developer by the town under this section shall not exceed the costs incurred by
the developer, owner, or developer in constructing the extension(s).
   (C)   The terms and conditions of any reimbursement or financial
participation by the town pursuant to this article shall be set forth in a
written contract between the town and the developer or property owner for which
the extension is to be constructed. Failure to reach a reasonable cost for any
over- sizing size may result in the denial of the extension.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.7 PRE-CONSTRUCTION CONFERENCE REQUIRED WHEN TOWN UTILITIES OVER- SIZED.
   (A)   The developer, design engineer, and contractor or a designated
representative for each shall attend the pre-construction conference. If a
representative for each of the parties is not in attendance, the pre-
construction conference shall be rescheduled to a later date when each party
can be represented.
   (B)   The developer, design engineer, and contractor or a designated
representative for each, shall provide copies of all applicable federal, state,
and local permits, easements, rights-of-way and encroachments and the
appropriate engineering drawings to the Town Manager or designee for approval
prior to the pre-construction conference.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.8 MODIFICATIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF APPROVALS.
   Any approval issued by the town pursuant to this article is subject to
revocation, suspension or modification, in whole or in part, upon 14 calendar
days' written notice to the applicant by the Town Manager for good cause
including, but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Violation of any terms, conditions, or requirements of this article or
the approval; or
   (B)   Falsification or misrepresentation of information provided in any
application and/or in the engineering plans and specifications; or
   (C)   Failure to disclose relevant information; or
   (D)   Refusal of or by the owner/developer or their contractor, agent, and
employees to allow authorized officers, employees, or agents of the town, upon
presentation of credentials, to inspect or observe any activity, system, or
other work approved within the owner/developer's control;
   (E)   Failure to follow the approved contract documents and engineering
plans and specifications without receiving proper authority from the town.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.9 VIDEO ASSESSMENT.
   The interior of all sewer outfall mains, collection mains, and laterals
shall be recorded on a CD, DVD or equivalent successor media after the
installation and testing is complete and submitted to the Town Manager or
designee for review prior to the acceptance and final approval of the
extension. All associated costs shall be borne by the developer.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.10 DONATION/ACCEPTANCE OF EXTENSIONS TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   Water distribution systems and wastewater collection systems and
associated rights-of-way and other appurtenances as required that interconnect
with the town utilities system and intended for public use shall be granted and
conveyed to and become the property of the town upon the final written approval
of the Town Manager or designee and acceptance by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall not accept the ownership, operation,
or maintenance responsibility of modifications or extensions that do not meet
the requirements of this article or other applicable law and regulation.
   (C)   Following the developer's donation and the town's acceptance of a
modification or extension, the town shall have sole ownership and rights to the
modification or extension and shall assume all operation and maintenance
responsibilities.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town reserves the right to:
   (A)   Notify federal, state, and local agencies of all violations of
regulations pertinent to their respective agencies and request that those
agencies initiate enforcement actions; and
   (B)   Notify the North Carolina Board of Examiners for Engineers and
Surveyors of any violations to the Engineering and Land Surveying Act (G.S.
Chapter 89C), which includes promoting the general welfare and protecting the
public by safeguarding life, health, and property. The town shall submit
evidence of fraud, deceit, gross negligence, incompetence, misconduct, or
violations of the Board rules against any unlicensed individual performing
functions that require a license, against any individual licensee, or against
any corporation holding a certificate of authorization.
   (C)   The remedies provided herein are not exclusive. The town may take any
one, all, or any combination of these actions against any person in violation
of the provisions of this article or the terms or conditions of any permit
issued hereunder. The town may also seek an injunction against any person in
violation of the provisions of this article or the terms or conditions of any
permit issued hereunder.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
§ 6-6.12 INFRASTRUCTURE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-499 this section authorizes and sets forth the
procedures and terms under which the town may approve reimbursement agreements
with private developers and property owners for the design and construction of
municipal infrastructure that serves the developer or property owner. For the
purpose of this section, municipal infrastructure includes, without limitation,
water mains, sanitary sewer lines, lift stations, storm water lines, streets,
curb and gutter, sidewalks, traffic control devices, and other associated
facilities.
   (B)   The Town Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate municipal
infrastructure reimbursement agreements with private developers and property
owners pursuant to this section. In negotiating such agreements, the town
manager, or designee, shall determine that:
      (1)   The cost to the town will not exceed the estimated cost of
providing for the municipal infrastructure through either eligible force
account qualified labor or through a public contract let pursuant to G.S. §
143-128 et seq.; or
      (2)   The coordination of separately constructed municipal infrastructure
with the associated private development would be impracticable.
   (C)   Town approval authority for agreements under this section shall be
governed by general town contracting authorizations and delegations.
   (D)   Such reimbursements, if any, may be paid from any lawful source if
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   A municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreement approved pursuant
to this section shall not be subject to G.S. Chapter 143, Art. 8 unless the
award of a contract for work would have required competitive bidding if the
contract had been awarded by the town. If the town would have been required to
follow G.S. Chapter 143, Art. 8, then the developer or property owner is
required to comply with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 143, Art. 8.
   (F)   A municipal infrastructure reimbursement agreement approved pursuant
to this section shall require the private developer or property owner party to
comply with all the town's rules, regulations and ordinances and be current on
all debts, fees or taxes owed to the town.
(Adopted 7-10-2018)
ARTICLE 7: SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
Section
   
6-7.1   Definition
   
6-7.2   Amount
   
6-7.3   Time of collection
   
6-7.4   Reservation of water and sewer system capacity
§ 6-7.1 DEFINITION.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES. A charge or assessment for service imposed with
respect to new development to fund costs of capital improvements necessitated
by and attributable to such new development, to recoup costs of existing
facilities which serve such new development, or a combination of those costs,
as provided in G.S. Chapter 162A, Water and Sewer Systems, Art. 8, System
Development Fees. The term includes amortized charges, lump-sum charges, and
any other fee that functions as described by this definition regardless of
terminology. The term does not include any of the following:
      (1)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review, or
inspection costs associated with permits required for development.
      (2)   Tap or hookup charges for the purpose of reimbursing the local
governmental unit for the actual cost of connecting the service unit to the
system.
      (3)   Availability charges.
      (4)   Dedication of capital improvements on-site, adjacent, or ancillary
to a development absent a written agreement providing for credit or
reimbursement to the developer pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-320, 160A-499 or G.S.
Chapter 160D, Art. 10 Development Agreements.
      (5)   Reimbursement to the town for its expenses in constructing or
providing for water or sewer utility capital improvements adjacent or ancillary
to the development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially
responsible for such expenses; however, such reimbursement shall be credited to
any system development fee charged as set forth in G.S. § 162A-207(c).
(Adopted 10-3-2023)
§ 6-7.2 AMOUNT.
   System development fees shall be set by the Board of Commissioners in the
adopted fee schedule, as amended.
(Adopted 10-3-2023)
§ 6-7.3 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Time of collection.
   (A)   Land subdivision. For new development involving the subdivision of
land, the system development fee shall be collected by the town at the later of
either of the following:
      (1)   The time of application for a building permit.
      (2)   When the town commits water or sewer service.
   (B)   Other new development. For all other new development, the town shall
collect the system development fee at the earlier of either of the following:
      (1)   The time of application for connection of the individual unit of
development to the service or facilities.
      (2)   When the town commits water or sewer service.
   (C)   When there is a difference between the fee collected at plat
recordation vs. time of building permit application. No system development fee
shall be charged or assessed with respect to any new development for which a
system development fee has been collected at the time of plat recordation
involving the subdivision of land and the amount of capacity associated with
that payment of the system development fee has not increased at the time of
application for a building permit. If the amount of utility system(s) capacity
is increased at the time of application for the building permit, then a system
development fee may be charged for the difference in the amount of the
increased capacity minus the previously collected system development fee.
(Adopted 10-3-2023)
§ 6-7.4 RESERVATION OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM CAPACITY.
   No water or sewer system capacity is reserved unless and until the system
development fees are paid, or the town enters into a written agreement for the
reservation.
(Adopted 10-3-2023)
CHAPTER VII: GENERAL OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      Article
         
1.   BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; DISPOSAL OF CONTAINERS
         
2.   DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
         
3.   DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
         
4.   LOITERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
         
5.   NOISE
ARTICLE 1: BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; DISPOSAL OF CONTAINERS
Section
   
7-1.1   Public property
   
7-1.2   Disposal of containers
Cross-reference:
   Damaging cemetery property, see §
3-3.6
   Entering cemetery at night, see §
3-3.8
§ 7-1.1 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any malt beverages or
wine (fortified or unfortified) on any public property or upon any public
street without a permit.
   (B)   Violation of this section is punishable as a Class 1 misdemeanor under
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 12-1; 2003 Code, § 7-1.1) (Amended 1-4-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Consumption of beer and wine, see G.S. § 18B-300
§ 7-1.2 DISPOSAL OF CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, throw, cast or deposit any malt
beverage or wine (fortified or unfortified) container in any public place or
upon any public street, or upon the private premises of another without
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession of the premises.
(1989 Code, § 12-1; 2003 Code, § 7-1.2)
ARTICLE 2: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS
Section
   
7-2.1   General
   
7-2.2   Permit required
   
7-2.3   Exemptions
   
7-2.4   Penalty for violation
§ 7-2.1 GENERAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge within the
corporate limits any air rifle, pellet gun, gun or pistol, or any spring gun,
pistol or other similar device or firearm which impels with force a shot or
pellet of any kind. The Davie County Sheriff or any member of the Sheriff’s
Office is hereby authorized to seize, and hold subject to order of court, any
air rifle, pellet gun, gun, spring gun or pistol, or other similar device or
firearm which impels with force any shot or pellet of any kind, which shall be
used, shot or discharged within the corporate limits in violation of this
article.
(1989 Code, § 12-2; 2003 Code, § 7-2.1) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 7-2.2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent a person over 21 years
of age using a 22 caliber (0.22 diameter) rifle with blank or shot cartridges
upon property owned or occupied by the person from firing upon pigeons,
squirrels or rats (when not in violation of state law) upon or around an
apartment or dwelling, if the person shall first procure a permit from the
Chief of Police for that purpose. The permit shall run for not more than 30
days, and shall authorize firing during daylight hours on weekdays only upon
premises owned or occupied by the applicant, and shall be revocable by the
Chief of Police upon a violation of its conditions or upon complaint that the
permit holder is not exercising the privilege in a careful and prudent manner
and with due regard to life and property.
(1989 Code, § 12-2; 2003 Code, § 7-2.2)
§ 7-2.3 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibitions of this article shall not be construed to prohibit the
discharge of the devices either during a course of instruction in their use
conducted by the Davie County Sheriff’s Office or on a firing range completely
enclosed, after inspection of the building and approval of the use of the range
by the Davie County Sheriff’s Office from the standpoint of public safety; nor
shall the prohibitions apply in those circumstances, exempt under G.S. § 160A-
189.
(1989 Code, § 12-2; 2003 Code, § 7-2.3) (Amended 7-6-2021 )
Cross-reference:
   Creation of noise with firearm, see §
7-5.1
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate firearms, see G.S. §§ 160A-189, 160A-190
§ 7-2.4 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Except as provided in § 7-2.3, any person violating this article shall be
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil
penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(Adopted 1-4-2022)
ARTICLE 3: DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Section
   
7-3.1   Damage to municipal property
   
7-3.2   Penalty for violation
§ 7-3.1 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall damage, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, streetlight, traffic signal,
bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks or
elsewhere, except employees of the town in the performance of their duties.
(1989 Code, § 12-3; 2003 Code, § 7-3.1)
§ 7-3.2 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(Adopted 1-4-2022 )
ARTICLE 4: LOITERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
7-4.1   Loitering, generally
   
7-4.2   Loitering on private business property
§ 7-4.1 LOITERING, GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or upon any private
property on any day between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. when signs
have been posted by the owner or the owner's employee or agent prohibiting the
same.
(1989 Code, § 12-4; 2003 Code, § 7-4.1)
§ 7-4.2 LOITERING ON PRIVATE BUSINESS PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or upon any private
business property, parking lot or area at any time that business is not open to
the public, when signs have been posted by the owner or the owner's employee or
agent stating that the loitering is prohibited at or during certain designated
times.
(1989 Code, § 12-5; 2003 Code, § 7-4.2)
ARTICLE 5: NOISE
Section
   
7-5.1   Unnecessary and the like noise—general prohibition
   
7-5.2   Same—enumeration of those expressly prohibited
   
7-5.3   Same—tests and standards
   
7-5.4   Penalty for violation
§ 7-5.1 UNNECESSARY AND THE LIKE NOISE—GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, or assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of, any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise or noise of the character, intensity or
duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual in the
municipality.
(1989 Code, § 12-6; 2003 Code, § 7-5.1)
§ 7-5.2 SAME—ENUMERATION OF THOSE EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this code, but this enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device, or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or,
if in motion, only as a danger signal after, or as, brakes are being applied
and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of the
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (B)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police, fire
or other emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, television, loudspeaker or any other instrument or sound-amplifying
device so loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner
as to render the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that, upon
application to the Chief of Police, permits may be granted to responsible
organizations to produce programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
   (D)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (E)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out-of-
repair, so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise, or in a manner as to cause squealing or
screeching of the tires, or in a manner as to cause the tires to propel rock,
sand or gravel;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noise
therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless the
noise created is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution; provided, however, that, conspicuous signs are displayed in
the streets indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
   (K)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers;
   (L)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or premises
which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (M)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
   (N)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale, or display of merchandise;
   (O)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes; provided,
however, that, the use by any governmental unit for a public purpose shall be
excepted from this prohibition;
   (P)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted therefrom between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and/or
   (Q)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, crackers, gunpowder or
other combustible substance on the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of
making noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Chief of Police.
(1989 Code, § 12-7; 2003 Code, § 7-5.2)
§ 7-5.3 SAME—TESTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Factors to consider. The standards which shall be considered in
determining whether a violation of §
7-5.1 and §
7-5.2 exist shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
      (4)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
      (5)   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any;
      (6)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
      (7)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
      (8)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (9)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (10)   The duration of the noise;
      (11)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant; and
      (12)   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or non-commercial
activity.
   (B)   Tables.
Table I—Limiting Noise Levels For Use Districts
Table I—Limiting Noise Levels For Use Districts
Octave Band             Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure
Center Frequency        (Levels in Decibels re 0.0002 Microbars)
Cycles per Second
            Residential Use District Commercial Manufacturing
Below 75    65          79                      80
75—150    60          74                      75
150—300   55          66                      70
300—600   55          59                      64
600—1,200 45          53                      58
1,200—2,4045          47                      53
2,400—4,8040          41                      49
Above 4,800 40          49                      46
 
      (1)   If the noise is not smooth and continuous, one or more of the
corrections in Table II below shall be added to, or subtracted from, each of
the decibel levels given in Table I.
Table II—Type of Operation in Character of Noise
(Correction in Decibels)
Table II—Type of Operation in Character of Noise
(Correction in Decibels)
   Noise source operated less than 20% of any one-hour period: plus 5*.
   Noise source operated less than 5% of any one-hour period: plus 10*.
   Noise source operated less than 1% of any one-hour period: plus 15*.
   Noise of impulsive character (hammering and the like): minus 5.
   Noise of periodic character (hum, screech and the like): minus 5.
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Apply one of these corrections only.
 
      (2)   If the noise occurs between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
on Monday through Saturday or at any time on Sunday or a holiday, seven shall
be subtracted from each of the decibel levels given in Table I.
   (C)   Motorized vehicles. It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized
vehicle within the city limits which creates a noise or sound which exceeds the
noise level limits set out in Table III below.
Table III—Limiting Noise Levels From Vehicles
Table III—Limiting Noise Levels From Vehicles
   Trucks and buses:
      Over 10,000 pounds:
         93 dB(A) measured at 50 feet—maximum allowable limit
         97 dB(A) measured at 25 feet—maximum allowable limit
      Under 10,000 pounds:
         80 dB(A) measured at 50 feet—maximum allowable limit
         86 dB(A) measured at 25 feet—maximum allowable limit
   Passenger cars:
      78 dB(A) measured at 50 feet—maximum allowable limit
      84 dB(A) measured at 25 feet—maximum allowable limit
   Motorcycles, including other vehicles:
      87 dB(A) measured at 50 feet—maximum allowable limit
      93 dB(A) measured at 25 feet—maximum allowable limit
 
(1989 Code, § 12-8; 2003 Code, § 7-5.3)
§ 7-5.4 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(Adopted 1-4-2022 )
CHAPTER VIII: LAND USE
Editor's Note: Chapter VII: Land Use is in the process of being reviewed and
updated. Please view a current version at: https://www.daviecountync.gov/
DocumentCenter/View/136/zoning-ordinance-mocksville-PDF
      Article
         
1.   PLANNING
         
2.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
3.   ZONING
ARTICLE 1: PLANNING
Section
   
8-1.1   Scope of planning
   
8-1.2   Planning agencies
   
8-1.3   Town Board
   
8-1.4   Town Planning Board
   
8-1.5   Town Planner
§ 8-1.1 SCOPE OF PLANNING.
   Every action and program of every component of the town involves planning,
in a broad sense of the term. For purposes of this article, the term is
restricted to activities and programs involving physical, economic and social
development of the town.
(2003 Code, § 8-1.1) (Adopted 11-7-1989)
§ 8-1.2 PLANNING AGENCIES.
   The following are designated as planning agencies assigned responsibilities
under this article: the Town Board, the Planning Board and the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
(2003 Code, § 8-1.2) (Adopted 11-7-1989)
§ 8-1.3 TOWN BOARD.
   (A)   In its legislative capacity, the Town Board adopts policies,
ordinances and amendments; appropriates funds; approves acquisition,
construction and disposition of public facilities; and oversees administration
of the town.
   (B)   In its quasi-judicial or administrative capacity, it may issue special
use permits under the zoning ordinance (G.S. § 160A-373), approve redevelopment
plans (G.S. § 160A-513), serve as a redevelopment commission (G.S. § 160A-456,
G.S. § 160A-505), and serve as a housing authority (G.S. § 160A-456, G.S. §
157-4.1).
(2003 Code, § 8-1.3) (Adopted 11-7-1989)
§ 8-1.4 TOWN PLANNING BOARD.
   The Planning Board of the town is created as provided in Chapter II of the
town's code of ordinances and shall have the powers and duties as assigned
therein.
(2003 Code, § 8-1.4)
§ 8-1.5 TOWN PLANNER.
   Appointed by and under the direction of the Town Manager, the Town Planner
shall assist the Town Manager, the Planning Board, Town Board and the Zoning
Board of Adjustment, with studies, advice and preparation of plans.
(2003 Code, § 8-1.5) (Adopted 11-7-1989)
ARTICLE 2: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
8-2.1   Purpose and applicability
   
8-2.2   Definitions and rules of construction
   
8-2.3   Decision making and administrative bodies
   
8-2.4   Appeals and variances
   
8-2.5   Amendments
   
8-2.6   The subdivision process
   
8-2.7   Subdivision development requirements
   
8-2.8   Required work on the ground
   
8-2.9   Enforcement
   
8-2.10   Application and processing fees
§ 8-2.1 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Short title. This article shall be known and may be cited as the
"Mocksville Subdivision Ordinance" or "this article".
   (B)   Purpose. The provisions of this article are adopted pursuant to the
authority conferred by G.S. §§ 160A-371 through 160A-376 for the purpose of
providing for the orderly development of the town and its environs by
regulating the subdivision of land. The regulations contained herein are
intended to coordinate proposed development with existing development and with
officially adopted plans for future development of the town; to coordinate
streets within subdivisions with existing or planned streets or with public
facilities; to secure or protect adequate rights-of-way and easements for
street or utility purposes including the dedication of rights-of-way pursuant
to G.S. §§ 136-66.10 or 136-66.11; to secure adequate spaces for recreation
areas; to provide for the distribution of population and traffic in a manner
which shall avoid congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions
essential to public health, safety and the general welfare; and to ensure the
proper legal description, monumentation and recording of subdivided land.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this article shall apply to all
subdivision activities, as defined in §
8-2.2 of this article, within the corporate limits and the extraterritorial
zoning jurisdiction of the town, as now or hereafter established. Any
subdivision for which a preliminary plat has been approved by the county prior
to becoming subject to the town's subdivision ordinance may, at the option of
the developer, be developed in its entirety in accordance with the county
subdivision ordinance. Any subdivision for which a preliminary plat has been
submitted to the county, but not approved prior to becoming subject to the
town's subdivision ordinance, shall comply with town ordinance standards.
   (D)   Separability. If any section, paragraph, subsection, clause or
provision of this article is adjudged invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the adjudication will apply only to the section, paragraph,
subsection, clause or provision so adjudged and the remainder of this article
will be deemed valid and effective.
   (E)   Compliance with article. All plats for the subdivision of land must
conform to the requirements of this article, and be submitted in accordance
with the procedures and specifications established herein. The description by
metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring land will not exempt the transaction from
compliance with this article. No utility shall be extended nor any permit be
issued by an administrative agent of the town for the construction of any
building or other improvement upon any land for which a plat is required until
the requirements of this article have been met and the final plat approved.
   (F)   Effective date. These regulations shall become effective upon the date
of their adoption by the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.1) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.2 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this article, the following terms will have
the meanings indicated in this section.
      ALLEY. A vehicular way used for providing service access along rear or
side property lines of lots which are also served by one of the listed street
types defined herein. An ALLEY may be accepted for public maintenance only if
it serves a broad public function. RESIDENTIAL ALLEYS will generally remain
private.
      APPEAL. An action requesting reversal or modification of an
interpretation or decision made by town staff or administrative agent in the
application of these regulations.
      BUILD-TO LINE. A line extending through a lot which is generally parallel
to the front property line and marks the location from which the principle
vertical plane of the front building elevation must be erected; intended to
create an even building facade line on a street. The BUILD-TO LINE is
established on the record plat (final plat).
      BUILDING FACE. The dominant structural plane of the elevation of any side
of a building. For example, the BUILDING FACE of a two-story dwelling with one-
story porch is considered to be the two-story elevation of the structure.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line extending through a lot which is parallel
to the front property line and between which and the line no building shall be
erected.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land planned and developed as an integral
unit in a single development operation or a definitely programmed series of
development operations, and in accordance with an approved site plan. The
development on the tract is limited by overall density or intensity, rather
than minimum lot dimensions.
      COLLECTOR STREET PLAN. The system of streets which indicates the
conceptual network of primary connecting streets expected to connect arterials
and/or provide access to public institutions within the town's planning area.
      CONSULTING ENGINEER. A state registered engineer appointed from time to
time by the Town Board.
      DESIGNATED ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT (also DESIGNEE). A government agency or
consulting professional who has been designated by the town's Board of
Commissioners through contract or agreement to administer the subdivision
ordinance.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a
corporation or person(s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
      LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS (LCID) LANDFILL. A landfill that is
limited to receiving stumps, limbs, leaves, concrete, brick, wood,
uncontaminated earth or other solid wastes meeting the standards of the state.
      LOT. A parcel of land or any combination of several parcels of land
occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal use or structure, together
with any accessory structures or uses and the accessways, parking area, yards
and open spaces required in these regulations.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets, or
abutting a curved street or streets in a way that the front building line meets
either side lot line at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. The portion of the lot area, expressed as a percent that is
covered by impervious surface cover.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage and access on two or more
public streets. A corner lot shall not be considered as having DOUBLE FRONTAGE
unless it has frontage and access on three or more streets.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street.
      LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two or more streets, one
of which is a minor or less important street in the community, the access to
which is restricted to the minor street.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street. See LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
      LOT LINE. A line or series of connected line segments bounding a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line which separates the lot from a street right-of-
way. Corner lots shall have only one FRONT LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line, which separates one lot from another
lot.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, except in the case of a triangular lot, a line ten feet in
length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from
the front lot line, or a chord thereof if the front lot line is curved, shall
be considered as the rear lot line for purposes of determining the required
rear yard. In cases where neither of these conditions is applicable, the Zoning
Administrator shall designate the REAR LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by plat or by metes and bounds which has
been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines at the
building setback line as measured along a straight line parallel to the front
lot line or parallel to the chord thereof.
      LOT, ZONING. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which is indicated by
the owner at the time of application for a building or zoning permit as being
that land which is proposed for development under a single development plan.
      OPEN SPACE. Land used for recreation, natural resource protection,
amenities and protection of important rural and town vistas and/or buffer
yards. OPEN SPACE may include, but is not limited to, lawns, walkways, active
recreation areas, playgrounds, wooded areas and greenways.
      PLANNING AREA. The land located within the boundaries of the most
recently adopted Town Land Development Plan, and consistent generally with the
town's extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ).
      PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the town.
      PLAT. A surveyed map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has
been subdivided.
      STREET. A right-of-way for vehicular travel.
      STREET, ARTERIAL. A federal and/or state highway designed primarily for
the movement of large volumes of vehicular traffic from one area or region to
another; a thoroughfare. Also referred to as a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A public way designed primarily to connect minor
streets with arterial streets and/or to provide direct connection between two
or more arterial streets and which may be designed to carry significant volumes
of vehicular traffic having neither origin, nor destination on the street.
      STREET, MINOR RESIDENTIAL. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide direct access to residential property.
      STREET, MINOR NON-RESIDENTIAL. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide direct access to commercial/industrial property.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor street having one end open to traffic
and the other permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      STREET, RURAL. A street designed for and located in non-urban and non-
urbanizing areas as classified by the town.
      STREET, URBAN. A street designed for and located in urban or urbanizing
areas as classified by the town.
      STREET, PARALLEL FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private street adjoining or
parallel to an arterial street designed to provide access to abutting property
in place of the arterial.
      STREET, PRIVATE. An interior circulation road designed and constructed to
carry vehicular traffic from public streets within or adjoining a site to
parking and service areas; it is not maintained, nor is it intended to be
maintained, by the public.
      STREET, PUBLIC. A right-of-way or fee simple tract of land which has been
set aside for public travel, dedicated to the public by the recording of a
subdivision plat, built to public street standards and eligible for maintenance
by either the town or the state.
      STREET LINE. The outer boundary of a street right-of-way.
      STREET ORIENTATION. The direction of the architectural front facade of a
building in relation to the street.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public right-of-way set aside for public travel
which is accepted or eligible to be accepted for maintenance by the state or
the town or the county, if so authorized; or has been dedicated for public
travel by the recording of a plat or a subdivision which has been approved or
is subsequently approved by the town; or has otherwise been established as a
public street prior to the adoption of this article.
      SUBDIVISION. A subdivision will include all divisions of a tract or
parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other divisions for the
purpose (whether immediate or future) of sale or building development and shall
include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or a
change in existing streets; provided, however, that, the following shall not be
included within this definition:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of parcels platted
and recorded prior to the effective date of this article, or portions of lots
platted in compliance with this article after its effective date, where the
total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to the
standards of this article and the appropriate zoning classification;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
street right-of-way dedication or reservation is not involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or the location of public utility rights-of-way;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where street right-of-
way dedication or reservation is not involved and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the appropriate zoning classification;
         (e)   The division of land into plots or lots for use as a cemetery;
and
         (f)   Proceedings to partition interests in lots or parcels pursuant
to G.S. Ch. 46 (or any successor statute) resulting in the division of a lot or
parcel into two or more lots or parcels, except where the partition proceeding
is brought to circumvent the provisions of this article.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. A subdivision not otherwise exempt from these
regulations that involves any of the following:
         (a)   The creation of any new public street or street right-of-way or
improvements to an existing street;
         (b)   A future public school, park, greenway or open space site shown
in any adopted plan or policy document;
         (c)   The extension of any needed right-of-way or easement for the
water or sewer system operated by the town;
         (d)   The installation of drainage improvements through one or more
lots to serve one or more other lots; and
         (e)   The installation of a private wastewater treatment plant or a
private water supply system for more than one lot or building site.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision that is not otherwise exempt from the
provisions of this article and that does not meet the criteria for the
definition of a major subdivision.
      THOROUGHFARE. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
      THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The most recent map adopted by the Town Board which
indicates the system of roads expected to serve major access and travel needs
with regard to auto, truck and transit transportation.
      TOWN BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the town.
      TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the town.
      VARIANCE. An action requesting consideration for relief from the strict
enforcement of the standards of the ordinance where special circumstances or
unusual considerations may exist on the parcel of land.
   (B)   Rules of construction. For the purposes of these regulations, the
following rules of construction apply.
      (1)   These regulations will be construed to achieve the purposes for
which they are adopted.
      (2)   In the event of any conflict in limitations, restrictions or
standards applying to a project, the provision more consistent with the town's
zoning ordinance shall apply.
      (3)   The words "shall", "must" and "will" are mandatory in nature,
implying an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision.
      (4)   The word "may" is permissive in nature except when used in the
negative.
      (5)   References to "days" will always be construed to be business days,
excluding weekends and holidays, unless the context of the language clearly
indicates otherwise.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.2) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.3 DECISION MAKING AND ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES.
   (A)   Town staff. In addition to any authority granted to the Planning
Director by other ordinances of the town, the Planning Director and the
employees under his or her direction, and the agent as may, from time to time,
be designated by the Board of Commissioners to administer the subdivision
ordinance (designee), will have the following duties in accordance with these
regulations:
      (1)   To review all requests for subdivision within the town's
jurisdiction and decide whether the requests meet the requirements and intent
of this article. If they do meet the requirements and intent, staff shall
approve the request. If such do not meet the requirements and intent, staff
shall deny the request;
      (2)   To review and provide comments on variance petitions;
      (3)   To maintain files and other public records related to the
administration and enforcement of these regulations;
      (4)   To recommend and prepare amendments to the text of these
regulations;
      (5)   To accept and file petitions for variances;
      (6)   To accept and file notices of appeal of an administrative
interpretation or decision;
      (7)   To interpret the provisions of these regulations;
      (8)   To coordinate all local, state and other appropriate agency review
and comment on all subdivisions proposed under these regulations;
      (9)   To establish procedures as necessary and proper for the
administration of their responsibilities under these regulations;
      (10)   To approve for recordation in the County Register of Deeds those
divisions of land which, according to the definition of subdivision found in §
8-2.2, are not subject to the requirements of this article; and
      (11)   To approve for recordation in the County Register of Deeds those
divisions of land, defined as limited subdivisions and minor subdivisions in §
8-2.2(A), which meet the standards of the subdivision ordinance and zoning
ordinance.
   (B)   Planning Board.
      (1)   In addition to any authority granted to the Planning Board by other
ordinances of the town, the Planning Board shall have the following powers and
duties to be carried out in accordance with these regulations:
         (a)   To hear and make advisory recommendations on proposed amendments
to the text of these regulations; to propose, as needed, amendments to change
the text of these regulations;
         (b)   To hear and decide requests for variances from the standards of
this article in accordance with the provisions of §
8-2.4; and
         (c)   To hear and decide requests for appeal from the interpretation
of any provisions of this article by the town staff or designated
administrative agent. The Planning Board may recommend reversal or modification
of any action under appeal upon finding an error in the application of these
regulations.
      (2)   In all of these matters, the Planning Board may recommend approval
of the request, denial of the request, or approval of the request with
conditions relating to the intent and standards of this article.
   (C)   Town Board or designated administrative agent. In addition to all
other authority reserved to the Town Board by other ordinances, the Town Board
shall have the following powers and responsibilities in accordance with these
regulations: to hear and decide proposed amendments to the text of these
regulations.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.3) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.4 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning Board may recommend and the Town Board shall
decide petitions for appeals from an interpretation or decision made by the
town staff or designated administrative agent and petitions for variances from
the requirements of these regulations. Any reversal, modification or
affirmation of an interpretation or any variance thus authorized will be
entered in writing in the minutes of the Town Board with the justification set
forth.
   (B)   Initiation. A petition for an appeal of an administrative
interpretation or decision may be initiated by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or department of the town. A petition for variance may be initiated
only by the owner of the affected property, an agent authorized in writing to
act on the owner's behalf, or a person having a written contractual interest in
the affected property.
      (1)   Filing of notice of appeal. A notice of appeal, in the form
prescribed by the Planning Director, must be filed with the planning staff
within ten days of the day an administrative interpretation or decision is
issued. The notice filed with the planning staff must be accompanied by a non-
refundable filing fee as established by the town's Board of Commissioners.
Failure to timely file the notice and fee will constitute a waiver of any
rights to appeal under this article. The filing of the notice will require the
officer whose action is appealed to transmit to the Town Manager and Planning
Director all administrative papers, records and other information regarding the
subject matter of the appeal.
      (2)   Standards for granting an appeal. The Planning Board may decide to
reverse or modify the decision or interpretation under appeal upon finding an
error in the application of these regulations on the part of the officer
rendering the decision or interpretation.
   (C)   Filing of variance petition. A petition for variance, in the form
prescribed by the Planning Director, must be filed with the planning staff,
accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee as established by the Town Board.
   (D)   Standards for granting a variance.
      (1)   Before granting a variance, the Planning Board must determine that:
         (a)   The difficulty or hardship would result only from these
regulations and from no other cause, including the actions of the owner or
previous owners of the property;
         (b)   The difficulty or hardship is peculiar to the property in
question and is not generally shared by other properties used for the same
purposes;
         (c)   The relationship of the property to natural topography or to the
nature of adjoining properties warrants relief from the standard in question;
or
         (d)   The difficulty or hardship from the application of these
regulations would prevent the owner from making a reasonable use of the
property. The fact that the property could be utilized more profitably with the
variance than without the variance will not be considered as grounds for
granting the variance.
      (2)   The granting of a variance would permit the preservation of an
historic structure or site, or a significant natural feature.
   (E)   Action by Planning Board. The Planning Board may approve or deny the
variance application, or approve with conditions relating to the intent and
standards of the ordinance. The reasons that the Planning Board used to reach
its decision shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (F)   Rehearing. When the Planning Board has denied any petition for a
variance, it will not thereafter accept any other petition for the same
variance affecting the same subdivision or any portion thereof, unless it finds
that there have been substantial changes in the conditions or circumstances
relating to the matter.
   (G)   Effect of grant of variance. After the approval of a variance by the
Planning Board, the petitioner will be required to follow the procedures for
preliminary and final plat approval in order to proceed with development of the
subject property. All decisions made by administrative officers under those
procedures will comply with the variance to these regulations granted to the
petitioner by the Planning Board.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.4) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.5 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The planning staff may from time to time and, at the request of the
Town Board or Planning Board, shall prepare certain improvements to the text of
the subdivision ordinance to correct errors, update or modify the requirements
or otherwise improve the operation of the ordinance in regulating the
subdivision of land.
   (B)   Amendments to this article may only be enacted pursuant to public
notice and public hearing on the proposed amendments. Notice of the public
hearing shall be published once per week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town. The notice shall be first
published not less than ten days, nor more than 25 days, prior to the date
fixed for the hearing. The notice shall indicate the date, time and place of
the hearing and shall include a statement of the substance of the proposed
amendment.
   (C)   All text amendments must be referred to the Planning Board for a
recommendation prior to final action by the elected officials. Failure of the
Planning Board to act within 45 days following the public hearing will be
deemed to constitute an affirmative recommendation on the proposed amendment.
An action to defer a recommendation for cause will constitute an action for the
purposes of this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.5) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.6 THE SUBDIVISION PROCESS.
   (A)   Compliance required. After the effective date of this article, no plat
of a subdivision of land subject to the jurisdiction of this article will be
filed or recorded by the County Register of Deeds until it has been submitted
to and approved by the town in accordance with these regulations. This applies
to all subdivision activities included in the definition of subdivision, found
in §
8-2.2.
   (B)   General requirements. The following statements provide general
requirements and policies to be used in the design, review and approval of any
subdivision under the jurisdiction of this article. Questions of interpretation
of any of these provisions should be discussed with the Planning Director or
designated administrative agent at the earliest possible time in the
development of a subdivision proposal.
      (1)   Consistency with adopted public plans and policies. All subdivision
of land approved under these regulations shall be consistent with the most
recently adopted public plans and policies for the area in which it is located.
This includes general policy regarding development objectives for the area as
well as specific policy or plans for public facilities such as streets, parks
and open space, schools and other similar facilities. Plans and policies for
the community are on file in the offices of the town.
      (2)   Conformity. All proposed subdivisions shall be planned so as to
facilitate the most advantageous development of the entire neighboring area. In
areas with established development, new subdivisions shall be planned to
protect and enhance the stability, environment, health and character of
neighboring areas. The geometry of streets and intersections and the location
of street connections will be assessed to minimize the detrimental effects of
high volume, high-speed neighborhood through traffic. This assessment will
consider the location of large-scale traffic generating uses, as well as the
adopted thoroughfare plan and the land development plan.
      (3)   Access between adjoining properties. To the maximum extent
practicable, all streets shall connect to create a comprehensive network of
public areas which allows free movement of automobiles, bicyclists and
pedestrians.
      (4)   Relation to topography. In sloping terrain, streets will generally
parallel the contours of the land insofar as practicable, to avoid steep grades
and the concentration of surface storm water runoff. Variations are allowed to
meet design objectives for the development and/or to calm vehicular speeds.
      (5)   Mature trees and natural vegetation. Streets and development sites
shall be designed to protect and preserve, to the greatest extent practicable,
stands of mature trees and other areas of significant natural vegetation. Minor
adjustment of street alignment on the ground is permitted to achieve this
objective, so long as standard drainage requirements continue to be met and the
actual location of the street on the ground is reflected on the final plat or
an amended final plat.
      (6)   Access to parks, schools and the like. Streets and sidewalks shall
be designed to assure convenient access to parks, greenways, playgrounds,
schools and other places of public assembly. Supplemental walkways not
associated with streets may not be less than ten feet in width and may be
required to be large enough to provide vehicular access for maintenance
vehicles.
      (7)   Discourage through traffic. Methods to discourage high volume, high
speed through traffic shall consider street geometry, intersection design and
other traffic calming measures.
      (8)   Relationship to railroad rights-of-way. When a subdivision adjoins
a railroad right-of-way, the subdivider may be required to arrange the street
pattern to provide for future grade separation of street and railroad
crossings.
      (9)   Half streets. Whenever an existing half street is adjacent to a
tract of land to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted
within the tract. New half streets are prohibited, except when essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where it will be practicable to require
the dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
      (10)   Parallel streets along thoroughfares. Where a tract of land to be
subdivided adjoins a federal or state highway or a major arterial street, the
subdivider may be required to provide a marginal access street parallel to the
highway.
      (11)   Public school and public park sites. The subdivider shall
determine if the tract of land to be subdivided appears in any adopted plan or
policy document as a future public school, public park, greenway or open space
site by contacting the appropriate agency. The subdivider shall provide
certification to the Planning Director or designated administrative agent to
indicate whether or not the area proposed to be subdivided includes any
identified future public school or public park site. If no certification is
provided, the Planning Director or designee shall make the determination by
contacting the appropriate agencies. If the site(s) are included in the area to
be subdivided, the Planning Director or designee will notify the appropriate
agency of the proposed subdivision and its effect on the future public site.
The appropriate agency must decide within 30 days if it wishes to reserve the
site for future acquisition. If the site is not to be reserved, then the
subdivision will be processed in the normal fashion. If the agency does wish to
reserve the site, then the subdivision will not be approved without the
reservation. The appropriate agency will have 18 months from the date of
preliminary plat approval to acquire the site by purchase, receipt of a
dedication or by initiating condemnation proceedings. If, at the end of the 18-
month period, none of the actions listed above have commenced, the subdivider
may consider the land free of any reservation.
      (12)   Proposed street names. Proposed street names shall be coordinated
with the County Planning Department or other designee.
      (13)   Easements. Easements established to the width and in the locations
required by the consulting engineer, Utility Department or the town shall be
provided for open or piped storm drainage, sanitary sewers, water lines and
other utilities. This requirement applies to the lines installed at the time of
the development of the subdivision and to easements for the lines which may
reasonably be expected to be installed in the future.
      (14)   Proposed water and sewerage system. The preliminary subdivision
plan must be accompanied by satisfactory evidence as to the proposed method of
providing potable water and a system of sanitary sewage collection and
disposal.
         (a)   Where, at the time of preliminary plat approval, these systems
are to be a part of the public water and sanitary sewerage system owned and
operated by the town, the preliminary subdivision plan shall be accompanied by
a complete set of construction plans for the proposed systems, prepared by a
registered engineer, which shall be required to meet the standards established
by the utility owner/operator for connection to the system upon completion and
dedication.
         (b)   Where, at the time of preliminary plat approval, the proposed
systems to serve more than one structure do not contemplate the use of
facilities owned and operated by the town, the proposed systems must be
reviewed and approved by the agency or agencies with jurisdiction over the
approval. This shall also include, but not be limited to, review and approval
by the town to establish that construction plans meet public utility standards
for adequacy and compatibility with the public system(s) in order to provide
for the future orderly development of the town. Whether the proposed system
serves one structure or more than one structure, the developer must provide
evidence prior to preliminary plat approval of the required discharge permit or
a perk test for sewage disposal on each lot, whichever is applicable. Where
lots are to be served by septic tank systems, the preliminary plat and the
final plat shall clearly label any lots which do not perk and for which a
building permit shall not be issued until alternate sewage disposal methods are
available to the lots. Prior to final plat approval, evidence must be provided
that both the sewage and water system designs have been approved for
construction. Prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy for any
structure, evidence must be provided that both the water and sewer systems have
been approved and are operational for the structures in question.
         (c)   Where local standards exceed those of state or federal agencies
and where those standards may be enforced over those of state or federal
agencies, then the town will coordinate all reviews for the standards. However,
the approval of the proposed systems remains with the responsible agency or
agencies, which may include the town.
      (15)   Restrictions on the subdivision of land subject to flooding. Lots
that are subject to flooding shall not be established in subdivisions, except
as provided in §
8-2.7(B)(6).
   (C)   Sketch plan required for major subdivisions. Prior to the filing of an
application for approval of a major subdivision preliminary plan, a sketch plan
shall be submitted to the Planning Director and any designated administrative
agent for review. When submitted, this sketch plan shall be on a topographical
map showing original contours at intervals of not less than four feet and
existing tree lines. It shall show in sketch form the proposed layout of
streets, lots and other features in relation to existing conditions. It shall
also include the following information:
       (1)   The boundary lines of the property being subdivided;
      (2)   Water courses on the land to be subdivided;
      (3)   The location, names and rights-of-way of any existing streets on or
within 300 feet of the land to be subdivided;
      (4)   The location of all property lines which intersect the boundaries
of the property being subdivided; the zoning district of each adjacent
property;
      (5)   Rough finished grades, the location of proposed streets, lots,
parks or other open spaces, reservations, building lines, street cross-
sections, number and type of buildings and the location of any building
restriction flood lines required by §
8-2.7(D)(6);
      (6)   Zoning information for the proposed project site;
      (7)   Proposed front, rear and side yard dimensions for each building
type along each street type;
      (8)   For projects within a regulated watershed protection area, the
location of required buffers, if applicable;
      (9)   The location of general buffers or screens required for the project
area, as a whole;
      (10)   The scale of the plan, which shall not be smaller than 100 feet to
the inch; north point; date; and
      (11)   A small-scale vicinity map.
   (D)   Sketch plan also required for minor subdivisions. In order to
facilitate the review and approval of a minor subdivision for which a
preliminary plat is not required, a sketch plan must be submitted to the
Planning Director and any designated administrative agent, who will advise the
applicant of any deficiencies that must be corrected prior to submission of the
final plat.
   (E)   Review of major subdivision sketch plan. Upon submission, the Planning
Director and any designated administrative agent shall have 21 working days to
review and comment on the sketch plan. A technically deficient sketch plan
shall be returned to the subdivider with comments.
   (F)   Preliminary plat requirements. The preliminary subdivision plat shall
be drawn to the following specifications and shall contain or be accompanied by
the information listed below. No processing or review of a preliminary plat
will proceed without all of the information listed:
      (1)   The boundary of the area to be subdivided and the location within
the area, or contiguous to it, of any existing streets, railroad line, water
courses, easements or other significant features of the tract;
      (2)   The location, size, elevations of existing sanitary sewers, storm
drains, and culverts within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto;
      (3)   Original contours, including tree lines, shown at intervals of not
less than four feet for the entire area to be subdivided and extended into
adjoining property for a distance of 300 feet at all points where street
rights-of-way connect to the adjoining property. These contours shall be
referenced to mean sea level datum established by the U.S. Coast and Geodetic
Survey. Proposed contours for the full width of all street rights-of-way, along
open drainage channels and in all other portions of the subdivision where
extensive grading is proposed must be shown. These requirements shall not apply
where the size of the subdivision and the topography make the information
unnecessary;
      (4)   The location of proposed streets, alleys, easements, lots, parks or
other open spaces, reservations, other property lines, front build-to lines and
rear and side yard dimensions for each lot, street dimensions, tentative
building locations and the location of any building restriction flood lines
required by §
8-2.7(D)(6);
      (5)   The location of all proposed storm drains and appurtenances with
grades, inverts and sizes indicated, together with a map of the drainage area
or areas tributary to the proposed storm drains, a copy of the data used in
determining the sizes of drainage pipes and structures, and the building
restriction floodline and flood protection elevation for each lot subject to
flooding, as defined in §
8-2.7(D)(6);
      (6)   The name of the subdivision; the name and signature of the owner or
the owner's duly authorized agent; the name of the surveyor, engineer or
designer; the names of proposed streets; the names of adjoining subdivisions or
property owners. The name assigned to the subdivision and the names assigned to
streets at this time will be used throughout the review and approval process
for preliminary and final plats and may not be changed without approval of the
Planning Director and or designated administrative agent;
      (7)   The scale of the plan which shall not be smaller than 100 feet to
the inch, north point, date;
      (8)   Typical cross sections of internal or abutting streets showing
width, sidewalk and planting details and proposed construction of roadways;
      (9)   Proposed profiles of roadways. Where a proposed street is an
extension of an existing street the profile shall be extended to include 300
feet of the existing roadway and storm drains, if present, and a cross section
of the existing street shall be shown. Where a proposed street within the
subdivision abuts a tract of land that adjoins the subdivision and where the
street may be expected to extend into the adjoining tract of land, the profile
shall be extended to include 300 feet of the adjoining tract;
      (10)   The proposed method of water supply and sewer disposal;
      (11)   A small-scale vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision
with respect to adjacent streets and properties;
      (12)   The location of any existing LCID landfills on the site and the
location of any proposed LCID landfills on the site;
      (13)   A timetable for estimated project completion of the area covered
by the preliminary plan;
      (14)   The zoning district(s) in which the project is located;
      (15)   For projects in the Watershed Overlay District, the calculated
built-upon area permitted for each building lot, taking into account
permanently preserved open space, is required; and
      (16)   For subdivisions within which open space is required, a draft of
the documents by which irrevocable preservation of open space shall be assured.
   (G)   Procedures for approval.
      (1)   Preliminary plat; submission and approval.
         (a)   A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision developed in
accordance with the specifications set forth in subsection (F) above must be
submitted to the Planning Director or designated administrative agent. The plan
shall be accompanied by an application in duplicate signed by the owner or his
or her duly authorized agent on application forms to be furnished by the
Planning Director or designated administrative agent. At the time of
submission, the applicant will be advised as to the number of copies of the
plan and related data required in subsection (F). The application for
preliminary plat approval shall be accompanied by the appropriate development
review fee(s) as established by the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   The Planning Director or designee shall have 30 working days to
review and take action on the preliminary plat. If subsequent corrections or
changes to the initial preliminary plat are necessary, the reviewer shall have
20 working days to review and take action on any revised plan. The preliminary
plat time limits listed above do not apply to plans for which no sketch plan
has been submitted, nor to plans which contain any proposed school, park,
greenway or other public facility for which reservation is required. The
applicant may consent to an extension of any of the time limits.
         (c)   Upon determination by the Planning Director or designee and the
Town Engineer, or other engineering agent designated by the Town Board to
review subdivision plans, that the preliminary plat is complete, correct and in
compliance with subsection (F) above as submitted, or has been resubmitted and
found complete and correct, the plan shall be approved. If the preliminary plat
is different from the approved sketch plan, the Planning Director or staff
under his or her direction is authorized to approve the plan, approve with
conditions or deny the plan.
         (d)   The town reserves the right to approve, disapprove in whole or
in part, or condition its approval of the whole or any of its parts upon the
requirements of this article as may be necessary for the health, safety and
general welfare, and to achieve compliance with subsection (F) above. If a
preliminary plat is disapproved, the Planning Director shall furnish a written
notice of the denial and the reasons for the denial upon request of the
applicant. An administrative disapproval may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of §
8-2.4.
      (2)   Exceptions: when preliminary plat not required.
         (a)   The required preliminary plat may be waived by the Planning
Director or designee for subdivisions defined as minor subdivisions in §
8-2.2 of these regulations; provided that:
            1.   A minor subdivision sketch plan has received approval;
            2.   A plat of the tract being subdivided, accompanied by two
applications signed by the owner or his or her duly authorized agent has been
filed with the Planning Director or designee, and the required fee submitted;
and
            3.   The subdivider has provided topographic information to
determine flood elevations whenever the property proposed to be subdivided, or
re-subdivided, is traversed by or adjacent to a known water course.
         (b)   However, whenever a preliminary plat is waived by the town, a
final plat must be prepared and recorded as provided in subsection (H) below.
      (3)   Effect of approval of preliminary plat. An approved preliminary
plat will be valid for a period of three years from the date of approval. If no
work in furtherance of the plan except grading on the site has commenced within
the three-year period, the preliminary plat approval will become null and void
and a new application will be required to develop the site. If work on the site
in furtherance of the plan has commenced, and the work involves any utility
installations or street improvements, except grading, the plan will remain
valid and in force.
      (4)   Release of grading permit. Preliminary plat approval is required
for the issuance of a grading permit for any grading work on the site for the
installation of any improvements in furtherance of the development. Once the
preliminary plat is approved, further approvals under this provision are not
required for grading permits for individual sites within the development, so
long as grading conforms to the approved preliminary plan.
      (5)   Final plat; submission and approval.
         (a)   Upon approval of the preliminary subdivision plan, the
subdivider may proceed to comply with the other requirements of this article,
and the preparation of the final subdivision plat. The final plat may include
all or only a portion of the subdivision as proposed and approved on the
preliminary subdivision plan; provided that, all required improvements to any
existing or new streets shown on the preliminary plat within the boundaries of
the final plat have been provided for or been assured by the posting of a
surety as provided for in §
8-2.8(K) prior to any final plat approval.
         (b)   The final subdivision plat must be developed in accordance with
the specifications set forth in subsection (H) below. The official plat or
plats, together with copies thereof sufficient for distribution, shall be
presented for approval to the Planning Director or designated administrative
agent for review. The plat shall be accompanied by an application for final
plat approval, submitted in duplicate and signed by the owner and/or his or her
duly authorized agent. The town shall have 30 working days to review and
comment on the final plat.
         (c)   Staff shall approve, disapprove, approve with conditions or deny
the approval of the final plat.
         (d)   If a final plat is disapproved, the Planning Director shall
furnish a written notice of the denial and the reasons for the denial upon
request of the applicant. An administrative disapproval may be appealed in
accordance with the provisions of §
8-2.4.
         (e)   Upon approval, the final plat will be noted approved and shall
be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds for the county.
   (H)   Final plat requirements. The final plat will be prepared by a
registered surveyor and must be drawn to scale not smaller than 100 feet equals
one inch and must contain the following information:
      (1)   The exact boundary of the tract of land being subdivided, showing
clearly the disposition of all portions of the tract;
      (2)   (a)   The lines and names of all streets, alley lines, lot lines,
lot and block numbers, front build-to line and side and rear yard dimensions
for each lot, easements, reservations and areas dedicated to public purposes
with notes stating their purposes. In addition, on-site LCID landfills must be
shown on the final plat and on deed(s) for affected lot(s). Also, the plat for
all lots subject to flooding shall include a statement as follows:
"This lot is subject to flooding during heavy rainfall and the construction of
buildings or structures below the flood protection elevation of
__________________ is prohibited, as further described by §
8-2.7(D)(6) of this article. Plats for multiple lots may include the flood
protection elevations in tabular form."
         (b)   In areas where the floodway regulations are applicable, the
following statement shall be inscribed on the plat:
"Any construction or use within the areas delineated by Floodway Fringe
District boundary line and Floodway District encroachment line is subject to
the restrictions imposed by floodway regulations."
         (c)   For subdivisions within which open space is required, a
designation on the plat denoting the area of preservation and the limitations
on its use and a reference to the recorded documents by which irrevocable
preservation of open space shall be assured. A copy of the documents shall also
be provided to the Planning Department.
         (d)   Any amendment to a previously approved final plat must note in
writing on the amended plat the nature and extent of the changes and the deed
or plat book and page number where previously recorded.
      (3)   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce accurately on
the ground the location, bearing and length of every street and alley line, lot
line, building line, easements required hereunder or of record in the county or
ascertainable by physical inspection of the property, and boundary lines of
reserved or dedicated areas. All linear dimensions shall be in feet and
hundredths thereof. The maximum allowable error of linear closure shall not be
in excess of 1:10,000. In closed traverses the sum of the measured angles shall
vary with the theoretical sum by a difference not greater than an average of
seven and one-half seconds per angle, or the sum of the total shall not differ
from the theoretical sum by more than 90 seconds, whichever is smaller;
      (4)   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce accurately on
the ground the location and extent of rural and/or urban open space to be
preserved, the method of preservation and any limits on use. In addition, the
subdivider shall provide to the town's planning staff a copy of any covenants
and restrictions governing disposition and use of preserved open space;
      (5)   "As built" drawings and plans of all water system, sewer system and
storm drainage system facilities. The plans shall show all easements and
rights-of-way to demonstrate that the facilities are properly placed. These
drawings need not be placed on the final plat but must be submitted at the time
of request for final plat approval or release of any surety for required
improvements, whichever comes later;
      (6)   "As built" cross-sections of each town street type used in the
development. The cross-sections shall show improvements in the public rights-
of-way and in any easement associated with the detail of the street. Features
to be shown will usually include: travel lanes, parking lanes (if any), curb
and gutter (or ditch), planting strip, sidewalk, utility allocation. These
drawings need not be placed on the final plat, but must be submitted at the
time of request for final plat approval or release of any surety for required
improvements, whichever comes later;
      (7)   For projects in the Watershed Overlay District, the calculated
built-upon area permitted for each building lot, taking into account
permanently preserved open space;
      (8)   The name of the township in which the subdivision is located, the
name of the subdivision, the zoning district, the name of the owner, the name,
registration number and seal of the registered surveyor under whose supervision
the plat was prepared, the date of the plat and north point, with indication of
whether the north point is true, magnetic or grid, and a small vicinity map
showing the location of the subdivision with respect to adjacent streets and
properties;
      (9)   Control corners and permanent markers with adequate and sufficient
description to enable a surveyor to locate the control corners or markers shall
be shown on the plat. One or more corners shall be designated as control
corners, and shall establish two or more street center lines or off-set lines
within or on the street right-of-way lines to be permanently monumented at
intersecting center line or offset lines, points of curvature or other control
points, which monuments shall also be designated as control corners. In
addition to the above, control corners must be established along the rear
property lines of lots with a minimum of two per block located along a common
line. Coordinates must be computed from the State Plane Rectangular Coordinate
System, as extended therefrom; provided, a control monument is within 2,000
feet of the subdivision. The corners of all lots and parcels must be marked
with iron pins driven flush with the ground. The iron pins must be placed where
lot boundaries intersect railroad and public street rights-of-way;
      (10)   The following signed certificates (lettered or stamped) shall
appear on each copy of the final plat submitted by the subdivider.
         (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described hereon and that I hereby adopt this plan of
subdivision with my free consent, and dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other sites and easements to public
or private use as noted. Furthermore, I dedicate all sewer lines and all water lines to the Town of Mocksville, if
applicable.
                                                                                                                          
Date               Owner(s)
 
         (b)   Certificate of approval for recording. Final written approval by
the Planning Director or staff, under his or her direction, must be entered on
the plat for recording. Changes or amendments to an approved final plat which
already bears the written approval prior to recording the plat constitutes a
violation of this article. A copy of the sealed and recorded final plat must be
delivered to the Town Planning Department within five days of recording.
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown heron has been found to comply with the subdivision regulations for
Mocksville, North Carolina, and that this plat has been approved for recording in the office of the Register of Deeds of
Davie County.
                                                                                                                          
Date               Owner(s)
 
         (c)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
 
I, _________________, certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an actual
survey made by me) (an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book ___,
Line ___, Page ___, etc.) (other); that the error of closure as calculated by latitudes and departure is 1:
____; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from information found in Book
___, Page ___; that this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my hand and
seal this ____ day of _________, 20 ____.
                                                                                                           
Registered Land Surveyor      License or Registration Number
 
   (I)   Plats already established by survey and record.
      (1)   Plats already established by survey and recorded in the County
Register of Deeds office prior to the effective date of this article will be
eligible for development and other administrative permits without complying
with the requirements of this article, but must be developed in accordance with
the provisions of the subdivision ordinance in effect at the time of the
approval.
      (2)   A subdivision for which a preliminary plat has been approved and
remains valid, but for which a final plat has not been recorded in the County
Register of Deeds prior to 12-7-1999 shall be approved for recording without
complying with the requirements of this article if final plats conform to the
requirements of the subdivision ordinance in effect at the time of preliminary
plat approval. The subdivision will be inspected and must be developed in
accordance with the provisions of the subdivision ordinance in effect at the
time of preliminary plat approval.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.6) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.7 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design standards for streets. For town maintained streets, the State
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, Traditional Neighborhood
Development (TND) guidelines, August 2000, as amended, shall serve as a minimum
guideline for design. In addition, standards as set forth in the town's zoning
ordinance and this article of the subdivision regulations shall control. The
town may impose additional standards or waive one or more required standards
whenever, in its opinion, the standards are necessary to ensure public safety
and the integrity of the public street system or, conversely, the waiver of the
standards will not result in a degradation of public safety or the integrity of
the public street system.
   (B)   Design standards for alleys. For alleys, whether public or private,
the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, Traditional
Neighborhood Development (TND) guidelines, August 2000, as amended, shall serve
as a minimum guideline for design. In addition, standards as set forth in the
town's Zoning Ordinance and this article of the subdivision regulations shall
control. The town may impose additional standards or waive one or more required
standards whenever, in its opinion, the standards are necessary to ensure
public safety and the integrity of the public street system or, conversely, the
waiver of the standards will not result in a degradation of public safety or
the integrity of the public street system.
   (C)   Additional standards for streets and alleys.
      (1)   Right-of-way required.
         (a)   Minimum right-of-way by street classification.
Street Type Feet
Street Type                        Feet
Collector (Class V)                60
Commercial arterial (Class III-C)  150
Freeway or expressway (Class I)    250—350
Limited access arterial (Class II) 200
Major arterial (Class III)         100
Minor arterial (Class IV)          70
Town street                        Varies
 
         (b)   These standards represent the normally required rights-of-way
for state standard streets. Additional right-of-way may be necessary in the
area of interchanges, intersections, cut/fill areas or areas where horizontal
or vertical alignments must be improved and will be determined on a case-by-
case basis. When a subdivider elects to establish a roadway divided with a
center strip or median, the right-of-way width must be at least the proposed
width of the center strip or median, plus 62 feet.
         (c)   Along existing streets, neither right-of-way dedication, nor
reservation, is required unless:
            1.   An existing street has a right-of-way less than 60 feet wide
and will provide access to the subdivision, in which case a right-of-way up to
30 feet on each side of the center line may be required to be dedicated; or
            2.   An existing street will provide access to the subdivision and
volume of traffic projected to be generated by the subdivision necessitates
intersection and/or other improvement(s), in which case dedication of right-of-
way sufficient for the subdivision developer to make intersection and/or other
improvements to serve the subdivision may be required.
         (d)   The Town Board, after consulting applicable plans and programs
and appropriate county, state and/or federal officials, is responsible for
classifying streets or segments thereof within the zoning and subdivision
jurisdiction of the town.
      (2)   Freeways/expressways (new). Whenever a tract of land to be
subdivided includes any part of the right-of-way of a planned freeway or
extension of a freeway, as shown on the adopted thoroughfare plan, and whenever
a right-of-way has been further defined by acceptable locational procedures
sufficient to identify properties to be affected, the right-of-way for the
freeway must be reserved, platted in the location and to the width specified in
the plan, and remain undeveloped pending future acquisition by the state or
other governmental unit. The subdivider is responsible for the reservation of
the right-of-way in accordance with the provisions of this section. The entire
right-of-way must be shown as such on the final plat. All measurements
involving minimum lot standards under this article and under the zoning
ordinance will be made at the edge of the full right-of-way.
      (3)   Arterial street right-of-way (new streets). Whenever a tract of
land to be subdivided includes any part of a planned arterial or extension of
an existing arterial street shown on the adopted thoroughfare plan, and
whenever a right-of-way for such a street has been further defined by
acceptable locational procedures sufficient to identify properties to be
affected, a right-of-way for the arterial street must be platted in the
location and to the width specified in the plan. The subdivider is responsible
for the dedication and/or reservation of the right-of-way in accordance with
the provisions of this section. The entire right-of-way (that which has been
reserved and that which has been dedicated) must be shown as such on the final
plat. All measurements involving minimum lot standards under this article and
under the zoning ordinance will be made at the edge of the full right-of-way.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs (streets designed to be permanently closed
at one end), may not be longer than 250 feet and must be terminated by a
vehicular turnaround design as accepted by the town; provided, however, that,
this requirement may be waived where topographical or other unusual conditions
exist.
      (5)   Street off-sets. Where there is an off-set in the alignment of a
street across an intersection, the off-set of the center lines shall not be
less than 300 feet for arterials. Off-sets for other street types will be
determined based upon projected traffic volumes and the applicability of
traffic calming measures.
      (6)   Block lengths and widths. Block lengths and widths shall comply
with the town's zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Design standards for lots.
      (1)   Frontage on street. Each lot shall have frontage on a street as
required by the town's zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Side lines. Side lot lines shall, as nearly as practicable, be at
right angles or radial to street lines. Where side lot lines intersect at the
rear of the lot, the angle of intersection shall not be less than 60 degrees.
      (3)   Lot sizes. Lot dimensions and yard dimensions are controlled by the
town's zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Building lines. Building lines shall be established on all lots in
residential subdivisions and shall be determined on the basis of zoning
district and classification of any abutting streets, existing or planned, in
accordance with the town's zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Driveway connections. Prior to the construction of any driveway or
other connection within the right-of-way of a public street, a permit must be
secured from the State Department of Transportation or the town, for a state or
a local road respectively. However, in a residential major subdivision, access
to individual lots from streets constructed as part of the subdivision shall be
reviewed and approved at the time each building permit is issued and individual
driveway permits will not be required on a lot by lot basis.
      (6)   Lots subject to flooding.
         (a)   The town will determine which lots are subject to significant
flooding, which will include those lots along any significant water course,
whether or not the stream is enclosed with pipes or culverts, and may also
include areas where it can reasonably be expected that significant overland
flow of storm water or flooding will occur. If any part of a proposed lot is
subject to flooding, the subdivider shall make a determination of the crest
elevation of the flood expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, of
one time in 100 years (the "100-year flood") in accordance with generally
accepted engineering practice, which is to be submitted with the seal and
signature of a professional engineer to the town. This determination must
reflect the actual conditions imposed by the completed subdivision and must
give due consideration to the effects of urbanization and obstructions.
         (b)   No proposed building lot that is wholly or partly subject to
flooding shall be approved unless there is established on the final plat a line
representing an actual contour, as determined by field survey, at an elevation
one foot above the 100-year flood crest. The line shall be known and identified
on the final plat as the "building restriction floodline". In addition, a
"flood protection elevation" for each lot subject to flooding shall be noted on
the lot plan as determined by the Town Engineer based on the building
restriction floodline, or for lots upstream of street crossings, the low
elevation of the street plus one foot, whichever is greater.
         (c)   All habitable buildings or structures shall be located outside
the "building restriction floodline", or the lowest usable and functional part
of the structure shall not be below the flood protection elevation. USABLE AND
FUNCTIONAL PART OF THE STRUCTURE shall be defined as being inclusive of living
areas, basements, sunken dens, basement utility rooms, crawlspaces, attached
carports and mechanical appurtenances such as furnaces, air conditioners, water
pumps, electrical conduits and wiring, but shall not include water lines or
sanitary sewer traps, piping and clean-outs; provided, openings serving the
structure are above the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   Where only a portion of a proposed lot is subject to flooding,
as defined herein, the lot may be approved only if there will be available for
building a usable lot area of not less than 1,200 square feet. The usable lot
area shall be determined by deducting from the total lot area the area of all
yards and setbacks required by the applicable zoning district regulations and
any remaining area of the lot lying below the building restriction floodline.
         (e)   During the construction of a subdivision, the developer shall
maintain the streambed of each stream, creek or backwash channel contiguous to
the subdivision in an unobstructed state and shall remove from the channel and
bank of the stream all debris resulting from the land development process,
including logs, timber, junk and other accumulations of a nature that would, in
time of flood, clog or dam the passage of waters in their downstream course.
Installation of appropriately sized storm water drains, culverts, bridges or
erosion control devices will not be construed as obstructions in the stream. In
areas of the county that are covered by the provisions of the floodway
regulations, the floodway regulations will supersede the provisions of this
article regarding land within the regulated floodplain.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.7) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.8 REQUIRED WORK ON THE GROUND.
   (A)   Standards and specifications.
      (1)   Unless specifically noted, before any final plat of a subdivision
is eligible for final approval, and before any street is accepted for
maintenance by the town or the State Department of Transportation, minimum
improvements (including drainage and soil erosion) must have been completed by
the developer and approved by the town, or other designated engineer, in
accordance with state or town standards whichever applies. Minimum improvements
not completed and approved must be bonded in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (K) below prior to final plat approval.
      (2)   The intent of the specifications set out in this article is to
prescribe minimum requirements for storm drainage and street improvements to be
undertaken by the developer. Satisfactory completion of these improvements,
attested by approval of the town, will qualify streets in the town to be
accepted for maintenance by the town, and streets in the extraterritorial
jurisdiction to be accepted for maintenance by the town upon annexation or, in
the case of state-standard streets, to be considered for maintenance by the
state.
   (B)   Street improvement responsibility. In order to facilitate the
provision of street rights-of-way and necessary improvements, the following
sections establish responsibilities for the installation of streets and related
improvements for each class of street.
      (1)   Freeways or expressway.
         (a)   New freeways or expressways.
            1.   Right-of-way. Entire width reserved by developer for future
acquisition; provided, the certification in subsection (C) below can be made;
and
            2.   Improvements. Installed by public.
         (b)   Existing freeways or expressways. No right-of-way or
improvements required of developer.
      (2)   Major arterials.
         (a)   Right-of-way. For new major arterial streets, the developer is
responsible for the dedication of up to 100 feet of right-of-way 50 feet on
each side of the center line. Along existing major arterial streets, any
development which requires specific improvements of the street to meet
vehicular and/or pedestrian access needs of the particular development must
dedicate the right-of-way necessary to accommodate those improvements; and
         (b)   Improvements. Installed by the public in accordance with a
schedule of public street improvements, except on existing streets where
specific improvements are required to meet vehicular and/or traffic needs of
the particular development in which case the developer must install the
necessary improvements at the time of development. If, however, a public
improvement project for the street is programmed and funded, the developer may
be relieved of the actual construction, but remains liable for the costs of the
improvements for which he or she would otherwise be responsible. The developer
has the option, after consultation with the Town Manager, to construct all or a
portion of a new or extended street if the developer wants to make use of the
street for access to the development. Development along new major arterial
streets or extensions of major arterial streets must limit access points to
public streets or specifically approved street type entrances.
      (3)   Minor arterial.
         (a)   Right-of-way. For new minor arterial streets, the developer is
responsible for the dedication of up to 70 feet of right-of-way, 35 feet each
side of the center line. Along existing Class IV streets any development which
requires improvements of the street to meet vehicular and/or pedestrian access
needs of the particular development must dedicate the right-of-way necessary to
accommodate those improvements; and
         (b)   Improvements. Installed by the public in accordance with a
schedule of public street improvements, except where specific improvements are
required to meet the vehicular and/or pedestrian access needs of the particular
development in which case the developer must install the necessary improvements
at the time of development. If, however, a public improvement project for the
street is programmed and funded, the developer may be relieved of the actual
construction, but remains liable for the costs of the improvements for which he
or she would otherwise be liable. The developer has the option, after
consultation with the Town Manager, to construct all or a portion of a new or
extended street if the developer wants to make use of the street for access to
the development. Development along new minor arterial streets or extensions of
minor arterial streets must limit access points to public streets or
specifically approved street type entrances.
      (4)   Major and minor collector.
         (a)   Right-of-way. Dedicated by the developer; and
         (b)   Improvement. Constructed by the developer.
      (5)   Town streets.
         (a)   Right-of-way. Dedicated by the developer; and
         (b)   Improvements. Constructed by the developer.
      (6)   Compliance. All public streets must be constructed to comply with
all applicable town or state requirements. Public improvements will be made in
accordance with adopted plans, programs and budgets. It shall not be expected
that the occurrence of development will result in the immediate installation of
public street improvements by the public sector unless those improvements are
scheduled and funded in accordance with public policies and programs.
      (7)   Minimum standards. Minimum standards for private streets shall be
as set forth by the State Department of Transportation with respect to
horizontal and vertical geometry, sight distance, materials and quality of
construction. The minimum street width shall be 20 feet from paving edge to
paving edge. Street design and final construction quality shall be certified by
a professional engineer or professional land surveyor licensed to practice in
the state. Geotechnical reports indicating subgrade competence shall be
provided with the street certification.
   (C)   Responsibility for state roads. No dedication or reservation of right-
of-way for a new street or highway within a corridor for a street or highway on
a plan established and adopted pursuant to G.S. § 136-66.2 for a street or
highway that is included in the Department of Transportation's "Transportation
Improvement Program" will be required by the provisions of this article unless
and until the Town Manager has determined and certified in writing that:
      (1)   The dedication or reservation does not result in the deprivation of
a reasonable use of the original tract; and
      (2)   The dedication or reservation is either reasonably related to the
traffic generated by the proposed subdivision or use of the land remaining in
the original tract, or the impact of the dedication or reservation is mitigated
by measures provided in this article. For these purposes, the term ORIGINAL
TRACT will mean all contiguous land owned by the applicant. The ability of the
applicant to transfer density credits attributable to the dedicated right-of-
way to contiguous land owned by the applicant is deemed to be a measure which
mitigates the impact of the dedication or reservation.
   (D)   Drainage.
      (1)   Storm drainage adequate to accommodate a ten-year storm must be
provided throughout the subdivision by means of storm drainage pipe or properly
graded channels or natural drainage. Where adequate storm drainage has been
provided by means of approved storm drainage pipe and the necessary easements
to provide access to the drainage facilities, in accordance with the standards
of the town, and has been dedicated and accepted or otherwise conveyed to the
town, the town will assume the responsibility for maintenance of the drainage
pipe. Where adequate storm drainage has been provided by means of properly
graded channels or ditches, the maintenance thereof will remain the
responsibility of the property owner and must be so noted on the final plat and
on deeds for the affected lots.
      (2)   In addition to drainage improvements as required by this section,
the subdivider may provide for storm water detention to serve the entire
subdivision as part of the drainage plan to be approved by the town. For the
purposes of this article, the subdivision shall include the streets, sidewalks,
driveways, rooftops and other impervious surfaces proposed to be constructed
upon completion of the subdivision.
   (E)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter are required on all arterial and
collector streets, with the exception of rural street applications. Standard
(raised) curb and gutter must be constructed on all arterial and commercial
streets, and on town streets or portions of town streets which serve primarily
urban functions, such as that of the workplace or the shopping district.
Standard curb and gutter is recommended for curb and gutter installations on
all street types. However, valley (mountable) curb and gutter may be used in
lieu of standard curb and gutter on collector streets.
   (F)   Sidewalk.
      (1)   Five-foot wide sidewalks are required as indicated by the town's
sidewalk plan.
      (2)   Location. Approval of sidewalk construction plans must be obtained
from the town as part of the subdivision review process. The town will review
and comment on the location of the required facilities at the time of plan
review. Except in unusual circumstances, sidewalks may not be located less than
five feet, but preferably seven to ten feet, from the back of the curb or edge
of pavement when no curb and gutter is required. If existing public street
right-of-way is not available, the developer will be required to construct the
sidewalk outside the street right-of-way on a permanent easement. While in most
instances a sidewalk will be placed parallel to and off-set from the curb line,
developers are encouraged and expected to meander sidewalks to preserve
existing trees of significance. Adjustments may be made in the field to
accommodate the circumstances.
   (G)   Street trees. The developer shall install street trees in accordance
with the requirements of the town's zoning ordinance.
   (H)   Street lights. Street lighting will be installed in each new
subdivision pursuant to a street lighting plan which shall be submitted to the
Town Manager for approval. This shall be the responsibility of the developer.
Street lights compatible in height and scale with the streetscape are strongly
recommended, but in any case shall comply with minimum standards for lighting
set forth in the town's zoning ordinance.
   (I)   Street signs and barricades.
      (1)   Standard street markers must be installed by the developer at one
corner of all street intersections, including private streets, before any
certificates of occupancy may be issued for buildings or residences along those
streets. The design, material, location and installation of the signs must be
in accordance with standards specified by the town unless an alternative design
is approved. Alternatives to the standard design for street markers may be
submitted by the developer for consideration by the Town Board. If an
alternative design is approved by the Town Board, responsibility for the
installation, maintenance and replacement of non-standard street markers
remains with the developer and subsequently with the homeowners. If maintenance
and replacement of non-standard street markers is not provided by the developer
or homeowners, the town shall install standard street markers as replacements
are needed. All standard street markers will be maintained and replaced by the
town once initial installation has been completed by the developer.
      (2)   Barricades must be installed at the end of all dead-end streets,
except cul-de-sac streets, which have been improved with a permanent
turnaround, as required by this article. Design, material and installation of
the barricades must be in accordance with the town's standards.
   (J)   No service unless street accepted/approved. No department, officer,
agent or employee of the town will accept for maintenance, lay out, open,
improve, grade, pave or light any streets or authorize the laying of water
mains, sewers, electrical service extensions or other facilities or utilities
in any street within the town unless:
      (1)   The street has been accepted or opened as, or has otherwise
received the legal status of, a public street prior to the effective date of
this article;
      (2)   For any new street, the street corresponds in its location and
lines with a street shown on a preliminary subdivision plan, tentatively
approved by the Town Manager or designated administrative agent;
      (3)   The street has been accepted as a public street by a vote of a
majority of all the members of the Town Board or by the state;
      (4)   The street has been accepted as a public street by the state; or
      (5)   The street is an approved private street built in conformance with
the provisions of all applicable ordinances.
   (K)   Modification of requirements; bond.
      (1)   In subdivisions adjoining already established streets that have
been accepted for maintenance by the State Department of Transportation, the
requirements of this section will apply as hereinafter provided; those
requirements that would necessitate the general removal and reconstruction of
established permanent pavements will not be applicable; where the adjoining
established street is a part of the State Department of Transportation's street
system, the adjoining street must be improved in accordance with either the
requirements of this section and the requirements of the town or the State
Department of Transportation, whichever establishes the higher standard.
      (2)   Plats for new lots fronting on already dedicated or established
streets or roads that have not been accepted for maintenance by the Town Board
or the State Department of Transportation or which have been accepted for
maintenance by the State Department of Transportation, but have not been
improved with a paved roadway, will be eligible for final approval when the
requirements of this section have been complied with as closely as may be
reasonably required considering the existing condition of the road, the extent
of area to be platted and the cost of required improvements in relation to the
comparative benefits to accrue to the subdivider and the other owners of
property on both sides of the street or road.
      (3)   Where the improvements required by this article have not been
completed prior to the submission of the final subdivision plat for approval,
the approval of the plat will be subject to the owner filing a surety bond or
an irrevocable letter of credit with the Town Manager or designated agency, in
an amount to be determined by the Town Manager in consultation with the town's
consulting engineer, and affected agencies such as the Department of
Environmental Health, with sureties satisfactory to the Town Manager in order
to guarantee the installation of the required improvements, allowing credit for
improvements completed prior to the submission of the final plat. For
landscaping required by this subdivision ordinance, the developer shall provide
a contractor's estimate for provision and installation of the landscaping, the
estimate shall be reviewed for adequacy, and a surety bond or irrevocable
letter of credit sufficient to guarantee the provision and installation of
required landscaping shall also be filed in the manner provided above. Upon
completion of the improvements and the submission of "as built" drawings,
written notice thereof must be given by the subdivider to the town. The Town
Manager will arrange for an inspection of the improvements and, if found
satisfactory, will within 30 days of the date of the notification authorize in
writing the release of the security given, subject to the warranty requirement
below.
      (4)   Maintenance guarantee. All improvements required by this article
shall be guaranteed against defects in workmanship and materials by the
subdivider for a period of one year from the date of the filing of the final
plat or the date of the completion of the improvement, whichever is later. The
subdivider shall file with the Town Manager a maintenance bond with adequate
sureties in an amount determined by the Town Manager or consulting engineer to
be sufficient to assure proper maintenance and repair of the improvements for
the one-year warranty period.
   (L)   Inspection.
      (1)   The town must be notified two days in advance of the work to be
started so that an authorized representative of the town or other responsible
agency may be assigned to make any and all necessary inspections of the work
performed.
      (2)   The inspector must be allowed access to all parts of the work and
must be furnished with every reasonable facility to ascertain whether or not
the work as performed is in compliance with the specifications.
      (3)   No materials may be placed, nor any work performed, except in the
presence of the inspector without special permission of the appropriate agency.
The inspection, however, does not relieve the contractor from any obligation to
perform all of the work strictly in accordance with the specifications.
      (4)   In the case of any disputes arising as to the material furnished or
the manner of performing the work, the inspector will have authority to reject
materials or suspend work until the question or issue can be referred to and
decided by the appropriate agency. The contractor must remove any work or
material condemned as unsatisfactory by the inspector and must rebuild and
replace the work or material to the standard required by the specifications,
all at his or her own expense.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.8) (Amended 10-17-2002)
§ 8-2.9 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   After the effective date of this article, a plat of a subdivision
within the jurisdiction of this article which is filed or recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county without the approval of the town
will be null and void for purposes of this article.
   (B)   Any person who, being the owner or the agent of the owner of any land
located within the area of jurisdiction of this article, subdivides land in
violation of this article, or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this article and recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of the county shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500,
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days for each and every offense. The town
through the Town Attorney may enjoin the transfer or sale by action for
injunction. All administrative actions relating to the land, including the
issuance of any grading, construction, building or occupancy permit will be
suspended. This article will not affect the sale or transfer of any land, a
plat of which was recorded prior to the effective date of this article.
   (C)   In order to properly enforce the provisions of the subdivision
regulations as stated in this article prior to the beginning of any
construction, reconstruction, use or alteration of any land, building or
structure, the appropriate permit must be obtained from the Planning
Department. No permit will be issued unless there has been a determination made
that the proposed use, building or structure complies with the requirements of
this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.9) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
§ 8-2.10 APPLICATION AND PROCESSING FEES.
   (A)   Fees for the submittal of preliminary and/or final subdivision plats
shall be established, and from time to time revised, by the Board of
Commissioners of the town and shall be collected when a subdivision application
is submitted. Fees shall be collected by the Town Manager, employees under his
or her direction, or an administrative agent designated by the Board of
Commissioners to administer the subdivision ordinance.
   (B)   Fees for variances and appeals of administrative decisions or
interpretations shall be in accordance with the fee schedule established by the
town's Board of Commissioners and shall be collected by the Town Manager or
employees under his or her direction at the time a variance or appeal is
submitted.
(2003 Code, § 8-2.10) (Adopted 4-1-2003)
ARTICLE 3: ZONING
Editor's Note: Zoning is in the process of being reviewed and updated. Please
view a current version at: https://www.daviecountync.gov/DocumentCenter/View/
136/zoning-ordinance-mocksville-PDF
Section
   
8-3.1   Authority and purpose
      
8-3.1.1   Authority
      
8-3.1.2   Purpose
      
8-3.1.3   Title
      
8-3.1.4   Jurisdiction
      
8-3.1.5   Zoning maps
      
8-3.1.6   Severability
      
8-3.1.7   Relation to other ordinances
      
8-3.1.8   Effective date
   
8-3.2   Applicability of ordinance
      
8-3.2.1   Applicability
      
8-3.2.2   Vested development rights
   
8-3.3   Zoning districts
      
8-3.3.1   Zoning districts established
      
8-3.3.2   General and conditional districts
      
8-3.3.3   Overlay districts
      
8-3.3.4   Dimensional requirements
      
8-3.3.5   Table of uses
   
8-3.4   Design standards
      
8-3.4.1   Purpose and applicability
      
8-3.4.2   Design standards for buildings
      
8-3.4.3   Design standards for lots
      
8-3.4.4   Design standards for parking and loading/unloading areas
      
8-3.4.5   Design standards for services and utilities
      
8-3.4.6   Design standards for natural resource areas
      
8-3.4.7   Design standards for streets, sidewalks, trails and pedestrian
pathways
      
8-3.4.8   Design standards for lighting
   
8-3.5   Landscaping, fences and walls and open space
      
8-3.5.1   Landscaping
      
8-3.5.2   Fences and walls
      
8-3.5.3   Open space
   
8-3.6   Signs
      
8-3.6.1   Introduction
      
8-3.6.2   Sign permit required
      
8-3.6.3   Building permit required
      
8-3.6.4   Sign permit fees
      
8-3.6.5   Sign permit expiration date
      
8-3.6.6   General sign design guidelines
      
8-3.6.7   Prohibited signs
      
8-3.6.8   Sign placement
      
8-3.6.9   Sign materials
      
8-3.6.10   Sign illumination
      
8-3.6.11   Design guidelines for specific sign types
      
8-3.6.11.1   Canopy signs
      
8-3.6.11.2   Contiguous signs
      
8-3.6.11.3   Directory signs
      
8-3.6.11.4   Flag signs/pennant signs
      
8-3.6.11.5   Incidental signs
      
8-3.6.11.6   Identification signs
      
8-3.6.11.7   Kiosk signs
      
8-3.6.11.8   Marquee signs
      
8-3.6.11.9   Monument signs
      
8-3.6.11.10   Planned development signs
      
8-3.6.11.11   Suspended signs
      
8-3.6.11.12   Temporary signs
      
8-3.6.11.13   Window signs
      
8-3.6.12   Non-conforming signs
      
8-3.6.13   Exempt signs
      
8-3.6.14   Weekend signs
      
8-3.6.15   Removal of discontinued signs
      
8-3.6.16   Removal of signs not maintained
      
8-3.6.17   Enforcement
      
8-3.6.18   Civic signs
   
8-3.7   General regulations
      
8-3.7.1   Conformity required
      
8-3.7.2   Street frontage required
      
8-3.7.3   One principal building per lot; exceptions
      
8-3.7.4   Lot size
      
8-3.7.5   Yard designation
      
8-3.7.6   Through lots
      
8-3.7.7   Height limitation exceptions
      
8-3.7.8   Structures and uses limited in yards
      
8-3.7.9   Accessory structures and uses
      
8-3.7.10   Clear sight triangle at street intersections
      
8-3.7.11   Building separation
      
8-3.7.12   Standards for construction; developer responsibility
      
8-3.7.13   Driveways
      
8-3.7.14   Measuring setbacks along certain streets
      
8-3.7.15   Negative access easements
      
8-3.7.16   Non-conformities
      
8-3.7.17   Building type
      
8-3.7.18   Swimming pools
   
8-3.8   Additional conditions for certain uses
      
8-3.8.1   Above ground utilities
      
8-3.8.2   (Reserved)
      
8-3.8.3   Accessory dwelling unit, attached or detached
      
8-3.8.4   Adult establishments
      
8-3.8.5   Agricultural industry
      
8-3.8.6   Agriculture, bonafide farms
      
8-3.8.7   Agriculture implement sales and service
      
8-3.8.8   Amusements, commercial, outdoor
      
8-3.8.9   Arenas; assembly halls, coliseums, armories, ballrooms, reception
halls, and exhibition buildings
      
8-3.8.10   Bed and breakfast establishment
      
8-3.8.11   Boarding or rooming house
      
8-3.8.12   Building contractors, general; heavy
      
8-3.8.13   Building materials supply; saw mills
      
8-3.8.14   Bulk storage of petroleum products; fuel dealers
      
8-3.8.15   Car wash, automatic
      
8-3.8.16   Car wash, industrial
      
8-3.8.17   Car wash, self-service
      
8-3.8.18   Cemetery
      
8-3.8.19   Childcare institution; day care center
      
8-3.8.20   Church or religious institution, community scale
      
8-3.8.20.1   Church or religious institution, neighborhood scale
      
8-3.8.21   Civic, fraternal, cultural and community facilities, not otherwise
listed; private non-profit club or lodge
      
8-3.8.22   Clubs, private
      
8-3.8.23   Cluster subdivisions
      
8-3.8.24   College or university
      
8-3.8.25   Community center
      
8-3.8.26   Construction vehicle and heavy machinery sales, repair, leasing,
maintenance and storage
      
8-3.8.27   Correctional institutions
      
8-3.8.28   Day care home, large and small
      
8-3.8.29   Dormitory
      
8-3.8.30   Fairgrounds, flea markets and farmers markets
      
8-3.8.31   Freight terminals
      
8-3.8.32   Funeral homes
      
8-3.8.33   Gasoline station, large; neighborhood
      
8-3.8.34   Group homes, A or B
      
8-3.8.35   Habilitation facility, A or B
      
8-3.8.36   Heliport
      
8-3.8.37   Home occupation
      
8-3.8.38   Kennel
      
8-3.8.39   Landfill, construction and demolition
      
8-3.8.40   Landfill, land clearing and inert debris (LCID)
      
8-3.8.41   Manufactured home, Class A or B
      
8-3.8.42   Manufactured home, temporary
      
8-3.8.43   Manufactured home park
      
8-3.8.44   Manufactured home subdivision
      
8-3.8.45   Motor vehicle sales, rental and leasing
      
8-3.8.46   Motor vehicle repair and maintenance
      
8-3.8.47   Motor vehicle storage yard
      
8-3.8.48   Nursery, lawn and garden supply store, retail
      
8-3.8.49   Nursing care institutions and congregate care facilities
      
8-3.8.50   Outdoor display and sales of merchandise
      
8-3.8.51   Outdoor storage
      
8-3.8.52   Parking lot or deck
      
8-3.8.53   Reserved
      
8-3.8.54   Progressive care community
      
8-3.8.55   Raceways and drag strips
      
8-3.8.56   Recreational facilities, golf courses and driving ranges
      
8-3.8.57   Recreation services, indoors and outdoors
      
8-3.8.58   Recycling center
      
8-3.8.59   Residential building, duplex
      
8-3.8.60   Residential building, multi-family; townhouse
      
8-3.8.61   Sanitary landfill
      
8-3.8.62   Schools, elementary and secondary, including school stadiums
      
8-3.8.63   Schools, vocational and professional
      
8-3.8.64   Services B, business
      
8-3.8.65   Storage and salvage yards
      
8-3.8.66   Wireless telecommunications facilities
      
8-3.8.67   Temporary seasonal uses and structures, including seasonal markets
      
8-3.8.68   Terminal, freight
      
8-3.8.69   Theater, drive-in
      
8-3.8.70   Tire recapping
      
8-3.8.71   Veterinary services
      
8-3.8.72   Waste transfer station
      
8-3.8.73   Planned mixed conditional development (PMCD)
      
8-3.8.74   Recycling and salvage operation
      
8-3.8.75   Solar energy generating facility
      
8-3.8.76   Electronic gaming operations
      
8-3.8.77   Warehousing, self-storage
      
8-3.8.78   Micro-brewery, micro-winery, micro-distillery
      
8-3.8.79   Studios (art, arts and crafts, dance, music, photographic)
      
8-3.8.80   Feed and seed stores
      
8-3.8.81   Asphalt and concrete plant and contractors
      
8-3.8.82   Building material salvage yards, scrap metal processing yards
      
8-3.8.83   Meat packing plant
      
8-3.8.84   Saw mills
      
8-3.8.85   Museum or art gallery
      
8-3.8.86   Public works facility
      
8-3.8.87   Group care facility A and B
      
8-3.8.88   Group care facility C
   
8-3.9   Administration
      
8-3.9.1   The staff
      
8-3.9.2   The Boards
      
8-3.9.3   Permits
      
8-3.9.4   Special use permits
      
8-3.9.5   Appeals
      
8-3.9.6   Variances
      
8-3.9.7   Amendments
      
8-3.9.8   Watershed amendments and variances
      
8-3.9.9   Waiver of architectural and site design requirements
      
8-3.9.10   Enforcement
   
8-3.10   Rules of construction, interpretation and definitions
      
8-3.10.1   Rules of construction
      
8-3.10.2   Interpretation
      
8-3.10.3   Definitions
§ 8-3.1 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
§ 8-3.1.1 Authority.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority vested in the town
by its charter, the Session Laws and the General Statutes of North Carolina,
particularly G.S. Ch. 160D and any special local legislation enacted by the
General Assembly for the town.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.1) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.1.2 Purpose.
   The purposes of these regulations are to: promote the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the community; to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate and economic provision of public
facilities and infrastructure; to conserve the value of buildings; and to
encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout the corporate area and
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, in accordance with adopted plans and
policies.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.3 Title.
   These regulations shall be known as "The Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Mocksville, North Carolina" and may be cited as the "Zoning Ordinance" or "this
article". The maps referred to herein titled "Official Zoning Maps, Mocksville,
North Carolina" may be cited as the "Zoning Maps".
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.4 Jurisdiction.
   These regulations govern the development and use of all land and structures
within the corporate limits and the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the
town.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.5 Zoning Maps.
   The Town Board, upon the recommendation of the Planning Board, has adopted a
series of zoning maps entitled "Official Zoning Maps, Town of Mocksville, NC",
which are retained in the office of the Town Clerk. The zoning maps set out and
delineate the zoning districts established herein. The zoning maps and
notations thereon are hereby designated, established and incorporated as a part
of these regulations and shall be as much a part of these regulations as if
they were fully described herein.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.6 Severability.
   If any section, specific provision or standard of these regulations,
including any zoning district boundary that now exists or may exist in the
future, is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any
reason, the decision of the court shall not affect the validity of any other
section, provision, standard or district boundary of these regulations except
the provision in question. The other portions of these regulations not affected
by the decision of the court shall remain in full force and effect.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.7 Relation to Other Ordinances.
   If the provisions of this article conflict with the provisions of any other
validly enforceable ordinance(s), the most stringent provisions shall control.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.7) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.1.8 Effective Date.
   These regulations shall become effective upon the date of their adoption by
the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.1.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.2 APPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE.
§ 8-3.2.1 Applicability.
   No building, structure or land shall be used, occupied or altered; nor shall
any building, structure or part thereof be erected, constructed, reconstructed,
moved, enlarged or structurally altered; nor shall any changed use be
established for any building, structure or land, unless in conformity with the
general provisions of this article and the specific provisions for the district
in which it is located, except as otherwise provided by these regulations.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.2.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.2.2 Vested Development Rights.
   (A)   In general. Any amendments, modifications, supplements, repeal or
other changes in these regulations or the zoning maps shall not be applicable
or enforceable without the consent of the owner with regard to buildings and
uses:
      (1)   For which a building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date of the ordinance making the change so long as the permit remains valid and
unexpired pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-403(c), 160D-1110, and 160D-1111 and the
building permit has not been revoked pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-403(f) and 160D-
1115;
      (2)   For which a zoning permit has been issued prior to the effective
date of the ordinance making the change so long as the permit remains valid and
unexpired pursuant to this article; or
      (3)   For which a vested right has been established and remains valid and
unexpired pursuant to this section.
      (4)   Vested rights established by local government approvals are as
follows:
         (a)   Six months - building permits. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1109, a
building permit expires six months after issuance unless work under the permit
has commenced. Building permits also expire if work is discontinued for a
period of 12 months after work has commenced.
         (b)   One year - other local development approvals. Pursuant to G.S. §
160D-403(c), unless otherwise specified by statute or local ordinance, all
other local development approvals expire one year after issuance unless work
has substantially commenced. Expiration of a local development approval shall
not affect the duration of a vested right established under this section or
vested rights established under common law.
            1.   For purposes of this section, substantial commencement of work
shall be determined by the Town Manager based on any of the following:
               a.   The development has received and maintained a valid erosion
and sedimentation control permit and conducted grading activity on a continuous
basis and not discontinued it for more than 30 days;
               b.   The development has installed substantial on-site
infrastructure; or
               c.   The development has received and maintained a valid
building permit for the construction and approval of a building foundation.
            2.   Even if work has substantially commenced, a development
approval still expires if development work is intentionally and voluntarily
discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months, as calculated
and tolled pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108(d).
         (c)   Seven years - multiphase developments. A multiphase development
shall be vested for the entire development with the zoning regulations and
subdivision regulations in place at the time a site plan approval is granted
for the initial phase of the multiphase development. This right shall remain
vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval is
granted for the initial phase of the multiphase development.
   (B)   Permit choice. If a complete application made in accordance with this
article or the subdivision ordinance is submitted for a development approval
and the article or ordinance changes between the time the application was
submitted and a decision is made, the applicant may choose which version of the
article or ordinance will apply to the application. If the development permit
applicant chooses the version of the article or ordinance applicable at the
time of the permit application, the development permit applicant shall not be
required to await the outcome of any proposed amendment to the rule, map,
article or ordinance prior to acting on the development permit. This section
also applies to all development approvals issued by the state and county.
   (C)   Additional procedures for establishing a vested right. A vested right
to commence a planned development or use of property according to a site
specific development plan shall be established upon approval of a special use
permit, a conditional use permit, a special exception permit or conditional
zoning by the appropriate Town Board. The vested right thus established is
subject to the terms and conditions of the site plan. Only those design
elements shown on or made a part of the site plan or permit shall be vested.
   (D)   Term of a vested right. A right, which has been vested by the town,
shall remain vested for a period of three years from date of approval.
Modifications or amendments to an approved plan do not extend the period of
vesting unless specifically so provided by the Town Board when it approves the
modification or amendment. A vested right obtained under this subsection is not
a personal right, but shall attach to and run with the subject property. A
right which has been vested under the provisions of this subsection shall
terminate at the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to buildings
and uses for which no valid building permit has been issued; except that:
      (1)   When a vested development plan has been at least 50% completed by
the end of the vesting period, the project as a whole shall be given two more
years to complete development in conformance with the approved plan not to
exceed a total vested period of five years; and
      (2)   Prior to the vested right terminating at the end of the three-year
period, the owner of the property may petition the appropriate board for a one-
time two-year extension of the vested right not to exceed a total vested period
of five years.
         (a)   In its deliberations regarding the extension request, the Board
may consider, among other things:
            1.   The percentage of the project completed;
            2.   A demonstration by the petitioner of good faith efforts made
towards project completion;
            3.   The reasons for the delay of project build-out; and
            4.   The compatibility of the planned development with current town
plans and the surrounding landscape.
         (b)   The Board may choose to extend the vested right for the entire
project or only a portion of the project and may require one or more design
features shown on the plan or incorporated in the permit to meet the current
code.
   (E)   Declaration of a vested right upon voluntary annexation. A petition
for annexation filed with the town under G.S. § 160A-31 or G.S. § 160A-58.1
shall contain a signed statement declaring whether or not any zoning vested
right with respect to the properties subject to the petition has been
established. A statement that declares that no zoning vested right has been
established under G.S. § 160D-108.1 Vested Rights - Site-Specific Vesting
Plans, or the failure to sign a statement declaring whether or not a zoning
vested right has been established, shall be binding on the landowner and any
such zoning vested right which may have existed shall be terminated.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.2.2) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.3 ZONING DISTRICTS.
§ 8-3.3.1 Zoning Districts Established.
   (A)   Types of zoning districts. All areas within the zoning jurisdiction of
the town are hereby divided into zoning districts within which the use of land
and water areas; the location, height, bulk, appearance and use of structures;
the provision of parking and loading areas; and the provision of buffers and
screening areas are regulated as herein provided. Zoning districts within the
town fall within one of the following three categories.
      (1)   General Use Zoning districts. Each General Use District category
serves a different purpose and imposes its own set of requirements and
restrictions on the use of land in addition to the general requirements and
restrictions imposed on all land or uses within the zoning jurisdiction. A
General Use District may be layered with an overlay district, which is a
special type of General Use District.
      (2)   Conditional Zoning Districts.
         (a)   Most Conditional Districts are established as parallel or
counterpart districts to a General Use District. In such cases, references in
the zoning ordinance to the General Use District shall be construed to also
include the counterpart Conditional District. In addition, there are several
districts which exist only as Conditional Districts and do not have Counterpart
General Use Districts. Conditional Districts, like General Use Districts, may
be layered with Overlay Districts.
         (b)   Each Conditional District with a counterpart General Use
District is intended to accomplish the purposes of the counterpart district
through the development of identified uses at a specific location in accordance
with this article. All regulations and uses which apply to a General Use
District also apply to the counterpart Conditional District and no use shall be
allowed in the Conditional District that is not allowed in its counterpart
General Use District.
         (c)   Additional conditions, which may be suggested by the petitioner
as part of the rezoning process, shall be binding upon property within a
Conditional District in perpetuity or until the property is rezoned by the Town
Board. The conditions may include increased buffers, architectural features,
access, parking, hours of operation or any other feature of the development
that is integral to meeting the spirit and intent of this article or that
serves to mitigate the impacts of the development on adjacent property or the
community at large. The conditions must be enforceable by the town, presented
by the petitioner during the public hearing as part of the rezoning petition
and agreed to by the Town Board during the rezoning process.
         (d)   This is a voluntary procedure which is intended for firm
development proposals. It is not intended or suited for securing early zoning
for tentative or speculative proposals which may not be undertaken for some
time. Therefore, the rezoning of land to a Conditional Zoning District is
appropriate only in response to a firm development proposal.
      (3)   Overlay Districts. Overlay Districts are established to provide for
certain additional requirements, to permit uses not otherwise permitted in the
underlying district, to prohibit uses allowed in the underlying district or to
establish special development requirements for uses permitted. Thus, where
Overlay Districts exist and there is a conflict between the requirements and/or
uses specified between the overlay and the underlying district, the standards
of the Overlay District shall prevail. Otherwise, the standards of the
underlying district shall also be in effect for any area additionally zoned for
an overlay district. A zoning map change either establishing or changing any
Overlay District shall be subject to the same procedures and requirements as
any other zoning map change. In certain areas, two or more Overlay Districts
may apply to the same parcel of land.
   (B)   Districts named.
District Abbreviation District Name Classification
District Abbreviation District Name                        Classification
OSR & OSR-CD          Open Space District                  Residential
GR & GR-CD            General Residential District         Residential
NR & NR-CD            Neighborhood Residential District    Residential
NC & NC-CD            Neighborhood Center District         Mixed Use
TC & TC-CD            Town Center District                 Mixed Use
HC & HC-CD            Highway Commercial District          Commercial
TND & TND-CD          Traditional Neighborhood Development Mixed Use
                      District
CI & CI-CD            Campus Institutional District        Mixed Use
CB & CB-CD            Campus Business District             Commercial
SP & SP-CD            Special Purpose District             Commercial
GI & GI-CD            General Industrial District          Industrial
FP                    Floodplain District                  Environmental
MH & MH-O-CD          Manufactured Home Overlay District   Residential
MF & MF-O-CD          Multi-family Overlay District        Residential
WS-O                  Watershed Overlay District           Environmental
 
   (C)   Zoning district boundary interpretation.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are shown within a street or alley right-
of-way, railroad or utility line right-of-way, recorded easement or navigable
or non-navigable waterway, the boundaries shall be construed to be in the
center of the right-of-way, easement or waterway.
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow lot lines or town, city or county borders, the lines shall be construed
to be the district boundaries, unless otherwise indicated.
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or railroads or
rights-of-way of same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at the distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map.
If no distance is shown, the distance shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on the official zoning maps.
      (4)   Where a district boundary line divides a single lot, each part of
the lot shall be used in conformity with the standards established by these
regulations for the district in which that part is located.
      (5)   If, because of error or omission in the maps, any property within
the jurisdiction of this article is not shown as being in a zoning district,
the property will be classified as OSR until changed by amendment.
      (6)   When a zoning case file contains detailed, verifiable information
regarding the boundary, that information will be used as the correct boundary
location.
      (7)   In instances where none of the above methods are sufficient to
resolve the boundary location, the Board of Adjustment shall establish the
boundary location.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.3.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.3.2 General and Conditional Districts.
   (A)   Open Space Residential District (OSR and OSR-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Open Space Residential District is provided to
encourage the development of compact residential neighborhoods that set aside
significant natural vistas, parkland and landscape features and other rural
heritage features for permanent conservation. The density of development is
regulated based upon the amount of open space which is preserved.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   Development in the Open Space Residential District shall meet
the general dimensional requirements listed in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   A minimum of 15% of the total area of all new subdivisions shall
be set aside as permanent open space. No open space is required for development
of existing lots of record.
         (c)   Permitted density may be increased from two units per acre if
open space is increased. For each 1% of open space exceeding the required 15%,
the number of units in the project may be increased by 1% up to a maximum of
three units per acre. For example, in a 100-acre development, the following
options are available:
 
             Overall
Project Area Maximum        Percent Open Maximum        Minimum Lot Minimum Lot
             Density in DU/ Space        Dwelling Units Size        Width
             A
100 Ac.      2.0            15%          200            N/A         N/A
100 Ac.      2.2            25%          220            N/A         N/A
100 Ac.      2.4            35%          240            N/A         N/A
100 Ac.      2.6            45%          260            N/A         N/A
100 Ac.      2.8            55%          280            N/A         N/A
100 Ac.      3.0            65%          300            N/A         N/A
 
         (d)   Open space shall meet the requirements of §
8-3.5.
   (B)   General Residential District (GR and GR-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The General Residential District is hereby created to
permit the completion and conformity of conventional residential subdivisions
already existing or approved in sketch plan form by the Town Board prior to the
effective date of these regulations or by the County Board of Commissioners
under the prior jurisdiction of the county. The application of the General
Residential District is not intended for development projects in the town's
jurisdiction which were initiated after 12-7-1999 (the date of original
adoption of this District).
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   Development density, amount and location of open space,
arrangement of streets and lots, yard dimensions and access to existing roads
shall be controlled by the most recently approved subdivision plan (sketch,
preliminary or plat). Any modifications to an approved subdivision plan shall
maintain the density of the original plan.
         (c)   Developments in the General Residential District which are
approved but not yet built are permitted minor modifications through the
administrative process; the developments, if redesigned, must conform to all of
the requirements of this article for the GR District or may petition for a
district change according to §
8-3.9.
   (C)   Neighborhood Residential District (NR and NR-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Neighborhood Residential District is intended to
provide for residential infill development surrounding the traditional town
center and its logical extensions. A range of housing types is encouraged and
it is envisioned that low-intensity business activity will accompany
residential development and will be located in mixed use buildings designed and
constructed at a residential scale.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards. All lots shall
meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown in §
8-3.3.4.
   (D)   Neighborhood Center District (NC and NC-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Neighborhood Center District is provided to allow for
the location of shops, services, small workplaces, civic and residential
buildings central to a neighborhood or grouping of neighborhoods and within
walking distance of dwellings.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   In major subdivisions and planned developments, the aggregate
number of dwelling units contained in apartment buildings and mixed use
buildings shall not exceed 50% of the total number of dwelling units in a
project.
         (c)   The maximum radius of a neighborhood center shall be one-fourth
mile.
   (E)   Town Center District (TC and TC-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Town Center District is established to encourage
revitalization, reuse and infill development in the traditional town center. A
broad array of uses is expected in a pattern which integrates shops,
restaurants, services, work places, civic uses, educational and religious
facilities and higher density housing in a compact, pedestrian-oriented
environment. The District anchors the surrounding residential neighborhoods
while also serving the broader community. The District is intended to
accommodate a higher overall intensity of development required to support a
revitalized downtown core. It is to be expected that the Town Center District
will be expanded over time through the zoning change process to meet growth in
the demand for downtown facilities and services.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards. All lots shall
meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown in §
8-3.3.4.
   (F)   Highway Commercial District (HC).
      (1)   Intent. The Highway Commercial District is established to provide
for auto-dependent uses in areas not amenable to easy pedestrian access. It is
expected that the Highway Commercial District will serve not only the town's
community, but the general region as well. Because of the scale and access
requirements of uses in this category, they often cannot be integrated within
the Town Center or Neighborhood Center Districts.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   Any lot requested for rezoning to the Highway Commercial
District shall be contiguous to an existing HC District or shall have direct
access to a major thoroughfare.
   (G)   Traditional Neighborhood Development District (TND and TND-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Traditional Neighborhood Development District is
established to provide for the development of new neighborhoods and the
revitalization or extension of existing neighborhoods, which are structured
upon a fine network of interconnecting pedestrian oriented streets and other
public spaces. The characteristics of a TND development include a mixture of
housing types and prices, prominently sited civic or community building(s) and
stores, offices and workplaces that provide a balanced mix of activities.
Church and pre-school/elementary school facilities are encouraged. Furthermore,
a TND development has a recognizable center and clearly defined edges.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4. There is no minimum lot size for the TND District. Lot sizes shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis and will depend on the design of the
development and the types of uses proposed.
         (b)   All TND projects shall be a minimum of 35 acres and a maximum of
200 acres in size. All proposals shall conform to these size requirements
except that proposals for tracts of less than 35 acres adjoining existing TND
developments or the Town Center District may be considered as long as they
demonstrate that they are, in function and design, an extension of the existing
TND or Town Center District and that the addition of the tract will not cause
the overall size of the TND to exceed 200 acres.
         (c)   The area of the TND shall be divided into blocks, streets, lots
and open space.
         (d)   There shall be a substantial mix of housing types; however, no
TND shall be comprised of more than 65% multi-family housing.
         (e)   Similar land uses shall front across each street. Dissimilar
categories shall abut at rear lot lines.
         (f)   All neighborhoods within a TND development shall have
identifiable centers and edges.
         (g)   No residential development shall lie more than one-fourth mile
from retail facilities.
         (h)   Civic buildings shall be given prominent sites throughout the
development.
         (i)   All uses shall be conducted completely within enclosed
buildings, except that sidewalk sales, cafes and open-air markets shall be
permitted.
         (j)   All streets and alleys shall terminate at other streets or
alleys (i.e., cul-du-sacs and dead end streets shall not be permitted).
         (k)   Each residential neighborhood shall contain at least one square,
park or other form of open space no smaller than one acre and no greater than
three acres. No portion of the neighborhood shall be more than 600 feet from
the open space.
         (l)   A minimum of 5% and a maximum of 15% of the gross land area of
each neighborhood in the development shall be designated for office uses. A
minimum of 1% of the land area of each neighborhood in the development shall be
designated for civic uses (e.g., community buildings, meeting halls, libraries,
post offices, schools, child care centers, clubhouses, religious buildings,
recreational facilities, museums, town buildings and similar uses). A minimum
of 2% and a maximum of 30% of each neighborhood in the development shall be
designated for street level retail uses.
   (H)   Campus Institutional District (CI and CI-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Campus Institutional District is established to provide
for large institutional complexes which are already in place and for large new
institutional complexes that, because of the scale of the buildings or the
nature of the use, cannot be fully integrated into the fabric of the community.
The Districts are intended primarily for existing institutions, as most new
institutional projects can and should be designed to fit within the fabric of
one of the other town districts. The Campus Institutional District is reserved
for uses which require very large buildings and/or large parking and loading
facilities such as hospitals and community colleges.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   The interior of new campus developments shall be laid out along
a new or established street pattern and shall maintain well defined open space
to give prominence to important structures and allow for assembly and
pedestrian circulation.
         (c)   Requests for rezonings to this District shall be for tracts or
development sites of no less than fifteen acres in size.
   (I)   Campus Business District (CB and CB-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Campus Business District is established to provide for
large business, excluding retail or light industrial parks which are already in
place and for new business or light industrial complexes on large tracts that,
because of the scale of the buildings or the nature of the use, cannot be
easily integrated into one of the other zoning districts. The Campus Business
District is reserved for uses which require very large buildings and/or large
parking and loading facilities such as warehouse and distribution operations.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   The interior of new campus developments shall be laid out along
a new or established street pattern and shall maintain well defined open space
to give prominence to important structures and allow for assembly and
pedestrian circulation.
         (c)   Requests for rezonings to this District shall be for tracts or
development sites of no less than 15 acres in size.
   (J)   Special Purpose District (SP and SP-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Special Purpose District is established to accommodate
uses that may constitute health or safety hazards, have greater than average
impacts on the environment or diminish the use and enjoyment of nearby property
by generation of noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, vibration, commercial
vehicle traffic or similar nuisances.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards. All lots shall
meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown in §
8-3.3.4.
   (K)   General Industrial District (GI and GI-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The General Industrial District is established to
accommodate traditional industrial uses on individual tracts of land and within
coordinated industrial parks. The uses may constitute health or safety hazards,
have greater than average impacts on the environment or diminish the use and
enjoyment of nearby property by generation of noise, smoke, fumes, odors,
glare, vibration, industrial vehicle traffic or similar nuisances.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards. All lots shall
meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown in §
8-3.3.4.
   (L)   Floodplain District (FP).
      (1)   Intent. The Floodplain District is intended to provide for the
maintenance and management of existing natural ecological and environmental
resources and to protect public health and safety by preventing development
which would increase the flood hazard potential and the likelihood of property
damage due to flooding within the community. Only temporary uses are envisioned
within this District.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   Only minimal development is allowed within this District. No
development shall mar or disturb the ecological and environmental efficiency of
the floodway, nor shall it disturb or re-grade slopes resulting in significant
elevation or contour charges.
         (c)   Only structures which will permit the free flow of water with
minimal obstruction shall be permitted.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.3.2) (Updated 2009) (Amended 10-4-2016)
§ 8-3.3.3 Overlay Districts.
   (A)   Manufactured Home Overlay District (MH and MH-O-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Manufactured Home Overlay District is established to
provide for existing and proposed neighborhoods which include or are proposed
to include manufactured homes. The requirements herein are intended to ensure
compatibility with existing housing stock by imposing supplemental design
standards for manufactured housing. It supplements the range of residential
types permitted in the underlying District.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   The Manufactured Home Overlay District may be applied to tracts
zoned NR, GR or OSR only. All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional
requirements shown in §
8-3.3.4.
         (b)   Existing manufactured home parks which are not subdivided into
individual deeded lots may continue operation but may not be expanded except in
conformance with this article and the subdivision regulations for the town.
         (c)   In proposed neighborhoods, homes shall be a minimum of 14 feet
wide.
         (d)   All proposed developments shall be a minimum of two acres and a
maximum of 20 acres in size.
   (B)   Multi-family Overlay District (MF and MF-O-CD).
      (1)   Intent. The Multi-Family Overlay District is established to
accommodate multi-family projects which due to their design and/or scale may
not be compatible with existing single-family residential neighborhoods. Multi-
family developments are permitted by right in the TND District subject to
conditions. Multi-family developments are permitted after rezoning to MF-O-CD
in the NR, NC, TC and HC Districts subject to conditions which insure
compatibility with existing housing by means of scale, site design and
architecture, communities which do not as a whole integrate well into existing
neighborhoods will require MF-O-CD District zoning. Townhouses permitted under
the North Carolina Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
are permitted with conditions, some of which are voluntary.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a “special” permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   The Multi-Family Overlay Conditional District may be applied to
tracts zoned HC, NR, NC, or TC only.
         (b)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
   (C)   Watershed Overlay District (WS-O).
      (1)   Intent. The Watershed Overlay District is hereby established to
meet the requirements of G.S. § 143-214.5 and 15A NCAC 02B.0104. The purpose of
this District is to impose more restrictive development standards upstream from
the drinking water supply than shall generally be imposed on land uses in the
planning area. The intent is to maintain a development pattern which does not
increase the pollution associated with urbanization. A WS IV classification has
been applied to the South Yadkin watershed by the state and allows for a
moderate to high land-use intensity pattern.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by right, uses with conditions and
uses permitted upon the issuance of a "special" permit are listed in the Table
of Uses in §
8-3.3.5.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements and supplemental standards.
         (a)   Only new development activities that require a sedimentation and
erosion control plan under state law are required to meet the provisions of
this article when located in the Watershed Overlay District.
         (b)   All lots shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements shown
in §
8-3.3.4.
         (c)   The Watershed Overlay District regulations shall apply to land-
use activities within the South Yadkin River Watershed as shown on the Zoning
Map. The watershed boundary was drawn to avoid dividing tracts in single
ownership so some parts of a tract may be outside the watershed or protected
area. If a property owner can demonstrate that his land drains into another
watershed not regulated by this article, the Zoning Administrator can exempt
that specific area from these watershed regulations.
         (d)   Under no circumstances will development be permitted in the
watershed District that violates the Water Supply Watershed Protection Rules as
adopted by the EMC on 5-29-1992 including all subsequent amendments.
         (e)   All land use activities shall conform to the Watershed Overlay
District regulations except that existing development, as defined for the
purposes of this section, is not subject to the requirements of this section.
Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet the
requirements of this District, however, the built upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations.
         (f)   A maximum of 10% of the town's portion of the watershed outside
of the critical area, delineated on 7-1-1995 and any portion of the watershed
outside of the critical area allocated by the county to the town, may be
developed with new residential and non-residential development and expansions
to existing development of up to 70% built-upon surface area. (This shall be
referred to as the 10/70 provision.) Each project must, to the maximum extent
practicable, minimize built-upon surface area, direct storm water runoff away
from surface waters and incorporate best management practices to minimize water
quality impacts.
         (g)   Clustering of development is allowed in the Watershed Overlay
District under the following conditions.
            1.   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots in the development
shall not exceed the number of lots allowed for this District.
            2.   Total built-upon area shall not exceed the allowed maximum for
the District.
            3.   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
storm water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
storm water flow.
            4.   The remainder of the tract not used for development shall
remain in a permanent vegetated or natural state. Sufficient proof of permanent
maintenance of open space shall be required prior to development approval by
the town.
         (h)   Storm water runoff shall be transported by vegetated conveyances
to the maximum extent practicable.
         (i)   A minimum 30-foot vegetative stream buffer is required along all
perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000
scale (7.5 minute) topographic maps for all uses except agriculture, where
agriculture is the primary use of a lot. Agricultural uses must maintain a
minimum ten foot vegetated buffer or equivalent control as determined by the
Soil and Water Conservation Commission along all perennial waters indicated on
the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) topographic
maps. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreline stabilization is permitted.
         (j)   No new development is allowed in the stream buffer. Water
dependent structures or other structures, such as flagpoles, signs and security
lights, which result in only minimal increases in impervious area and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways may be allowed where no practical
alternative exists. These activities shall minimize built-upon surface area,
direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of
storm water best management practices.
      (4)   Review criteria.
         (a)   The property under consideration shall be used for industrial,
commercial or mixed-use development. If the proposed development is for public
or non-profit use, educational buildings or facilities, residential development
or otherwise serves a significant economic development purpose, the allocation
may be approved if the development is determined to be in the best interest of
the town.
         (b)   The property under consideration shall be served by public water
and public sewer to accommodate a densely developed site.
         (c)   The development proposed shall begin construction within 12
calendar months of the approval of the watershed 10/70 allocation. In the event
that construction has not commenced within 12 months, the developer or property
owner may apply for one six-month time extension. This extension may be granted
by the town only upon sufficient information, presented by the applicant, that
practicable difficulties beyond the control of the applicant have resulted in a
delay in the start of construction.
      (5)   Petition requirements.
         (a)   A site plan shall be submitted showing the amount of pervious
and impervious area proposed in the development, the location of all proposed
buildings and uses on the property, the location, extent and types of
supporting facilities such as parking lots, driveways and access streets, the
timing of development, the location of landscaped and buffer areas and the
positioning of any other special purpose areas on the tract.
         (b)   All petitions for the 10/70 provision shall be submitted to the
Town Manager at least 21 days prior to the Town Council meeting at which the
request shall be heard. In order to be considered by the Town Council,
petitions shall include the following information:
            1.   A completed application form; and
            2.   A sealed site plan including an accurate survey of the site
drawn at a scale of no less than 1:200 indicating the following information:
               a.   The project boundary and total square footage of the
project site;
               b.   The location, extent, percentage and total square footage
of all existing and proposed impervious surface areas;
               c.   The location, extent and proposed ownership of all on-site
and/or off-site pervious locations. If off-site, the application shall include
a draft of the legal instrument conveying ownership of the land and a signed
letter by the proposed owner that they understand and willingly accept the
limitations, requirements and responsibilities that the ownership conveys. All
open space areas shall meet the requirements of §
8-3.5.3;
               d.   The location of all perennial and intermittent streams, as
indicated on the most recent U.S.G.S. 7.5 Minute Topographic Quadrangle, on the
project site;
               e.   The location of all boundaries of a regulated floodplain,
as indicated by the county GIS;
               f.   The location and extent of all required buffer areas;
               g.   The location of all existing structures on the site;
               h.   The zoning on the project site and adjacent parcels of
land; and
               i.   In the absence of floodplain, perennial or intermittent
streams on the project site, the site plan shall either:
                  i.   Include a statement that no floodplain, perennial or
intermittent streams, as defined by this article, lie within 100 feet of the
project boundary; or
                  ii.   Indicate the direction and distance to any such feature
within 100 feet of the project boundary.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.3.3) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021; Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 8-3.3.4 Dimensional Requirements.
   (A)   Table 1. General Requirements.
         Maximum     Minimum                                         Minimum
         Residential Non-        Minimum                             Public   Maximum
District Density     Residential Lot     Lot Width to Depth Ratio3  Street   Building
         (units per  Lot size    Width   (minimum/ maximum)         Frontage Height
         acre)       square      (feet)2                             (feet)   (feet)
                     feet)
         Maximum     Minimum                                              Minimum
         Residential Non-        Minimum Lot                              Public   Maximum
District Density     Residential Width        Lot Width to Depth Ratio3  Street   Building
         (units per  Lot size    (feet)2      (minimum/ maximum)         Frontage Height
         acre)       square                                               (feet)   (feet)
                     feet)
OSR      21          20,000      100          1:2/1:4                     254      35
                                 85
GR       2           20,000      (residential 1:2/1:4                     25       35
                                 only)
NR       4           none        50           none/1:4                    25       35
TND      14          none        50           none                        25       50
NC       8           none        50           none/1:4                    25       50
TC       10          none        none         none/1:4                    25       50
HC       8           none        50           1:2/1:4                     25       50
CI       8           none        50           1:2/1:4                     25       50
CB       8           none        50           1:2/1:4                     25       606
SP       8           none        50           1:2/1:4                     25       606
GI       none        none        50           1:2/1:4                     25       606
                                 same as the                                       same as
MH-O     10          none        underlying   1:2/1:4                     25       the
                                 District                                          underlying
                                                                                   District
                                 same as the                                       same as
MF-O     14          none        underlying   1:2/1:4                     25       the
                                 District                                          underlying
                                                                                   District
                                 same as the                                       same as
WS-O     25          none        underlying   1:2/1:4                     25       the
                                 District                                          underlying
                                                                                   District
FP       none        n/a         n/a          1:2/1:4                     25       25
NOTES TO TABLE:
1 Lot size may be reduced to three units per acre if open space is increased. See District
details.
2 The Planning Director may waive this requirement for townhouse developments.
3 There is no minimum width to depth ratio for tracts ten acres or more in size.
4 Does not apply to family subdivisions.
5 May be increased to three units in areas without curb and gutter.
6 For structures exceeding this height, an additional setback shall be required equal to one
foot for each two feet over the height limit.
 
   (B)   Table 2. Setback Requirements.
         Principal Residential Structure Principal Non-Residential Structure
         Setbacks in Feet1 (min./max.)   Setbacks in Feet1 (min./max.)
District Front Side2 Rear                Front Side Rear
         Principal Residential Structure  Principal Non-Residential Structure
         Setbacks in Feet1 (min./max.)    Setbacks in Feet1 (min./max.)
District Front   Side2   Rear             Front   Side    Rear
OSR      40/none 15/none 30/none          40/none 15/none 30/none
GR       40/none 15/none 30/none          40/none 15/none 30/none
NR       10/none 5/none  20/none          10/none 53/none 303/none
TND3     none    none    none             none    0/none  30/none
NC       10/none 5/none  20/none          10/none 5/none  30/none
TC       none    none    20/none          none    0/none  30/none
HC       10/none 5/none  20/none          20/45   10/125  30/none
CI       none    none    none             none    0/125   30/none
CB       none    none    none             20/45   10/125  30/none
SP3      n/a     none    none             20/45   10/125  30/none
GI3      20/none none    none             40/none 20/none 50/none
MH-O     same as the underlying District  same as the underlying District
MF-O     see District details for setback same as the underlying District
         information
WS-O     same as the underlying District  same as the underlying District
FP       n/a                              n/a
1 Except for the OSR and GR District setbacks, numbers shown are general
ranges only.
2 Minimum side yards abutting public streets shall be an additional ten feet
in width.
3 Minimum rear and side setbacks shall be increased 20 feet if abutting a
legal, conforming residential use.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.3.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.3.5 Table of Uses.
   (A)   The following table lists uses permitted in each zoning district by:
      (1)   Issuance of a zoning permit from the Zoning Administrator with or
without conditions; and
      (2)   Issuance of a special use permit (abbreviated S.U.P. in the legend
included at the top of the table) from the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   The table also denotes which Districts certain uses are not permitted
and where the uses permitted within an overlay District are determined by the
uses permitted in the underlying District. For the purposes of interpreting the
table, the zoning districts are abbreviated as listed in §
8-3.3.1(B) and are repeated as follows.
District Abbreviation District Name Classification
District Abbreviation District Name                        Classification
OSR & OSR-CD          Open Space District                  Residential
GR & GR-CD            General Residential District         Residential
NR & NR-CD            Neighborhood Residential District    Residential
NC & NC-CD            Neighborhood Center District         Mixed Use
TC & TC-CD            Town Center District                 Mixed Use
HC & HC-CD            Highway Commercial District          Commercial
TND & TND-CD          Traditional Neighborhood Development Mixed Use
                      District
CI & CI-CD            Campus Institutional District        Mixed Use
CB & CB-CD            Campus Business District             Commercial
SP & SP-CD            Special Purpose District             Commercial
GI & GI-CD            General Industrial District          Industrial
FP                    Floodplain District                  Environmental
MH & MH-O-CD          Manufactured Home Overlay District   Residential
MF &MF-O-CD           Multi-family Overlay District        Residential
WS-O                  Watershed Overlay District           Environmental
 
TABLE OF USES
P = Permit from Zoning Administrator
S = S.U.P. from Board of Adjustment
P/C = Permit from Zoning Administrator; use must meet additional conditions
"-" = not permitted
"U" = uses determined by underlying District
* = Rezoning to MF-O required
MA = Permitted with a zoning map amendment approved by the Board of
Commissioners
Uses Districts         Land Use Code Additional Conditions
               Districts                                                   Land
Uses           Res.                     Mixed        Com. & Ind.    Env.   Use  Additional
               OSR OSR GR NR NR MH- MF- NC TC TND CI HC HC CB SP GI FP WS- Code Conditions
                   CD        CD O   O                   CD             O
Agricultural Uses
Agricultural   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   5    8-3.8.5
industry                                                      C  C
Agriculture,
bonafide
farms,
including
processing or
sale of        P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  P/ P/C 1    8-3.8.6
products grown                                                      C
on the same
zoning lot,
excluding
agricultural
industry
Agriculture
implement                                            P/
sale, repair,  P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  C     -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.7
rental or
storage
Livestock
sales and      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   3
auctions
Commercial Uses
Adult          -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.4
establishments                                       C        C  C
Amusements,
commercial,    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   2
indoor
Amusements,    P/                                    P/       P/ P/
commercial,    C       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  C     -  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.8
outdoor
Arts and       P/      -  P/    U   U   P  P  P   -  P     -  -  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.79
crafts studio  C          C
Automatic      -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
teller machine
Banking and
financial      -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
services
Bed and                P/ P/
breakfast      P       C  C     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.10
establishment
Broadcast
studios (radio -       -  -     U   U   P  P  -   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
and
television)
Building                                             P/
materials      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  C     -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.13
supply
Car wash,      -       -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.15
automatic                               C  C      C
Car wash, full -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   2
service
Car wash,      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.16
industrial                                           C
Car wash,      -       -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C -  P/    -  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.17
self-service                            C  C         C
Club, private  -       -  -     U   U   -  P/ P/C -  P/    -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.22
                                           C         C
Construction
vehicle sales,
repair,        -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.26
leasing,                                             C
maintenance,
or storage
Convenience    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
store
Drycleaning
and laundry    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
services
Electronic                                           P/
gaming         -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  C     -  -  -  -  I   1    8-3.8.76
operations
Farmers market P/C     -  -     U   U   -  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.30
Feed and seed  P/C     -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.30
stores
Flea markets,  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.30
indoor                                               C        C  C
Food and       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
beverage store
Fuel dealer    -       -  -     U   U   -  P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   3    8-3.8.14
                                           C      C  C     C  C  C
Gasoline       -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.33
station, large                                       C     C  C  C
Gasoline                                P/ P/     P/ P/    P/ P/ P/
station,       -       -  -     U   U   C  C  P/C C  C     C  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.33
neighborhood
General retail -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Heavy
machinery
sales, repair, -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.26
leasing,                                             C
maintenance or
storage
Home           P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C -  P     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.37
occupations            C  C             C  C
Hotel          -       -  -     U   U   -  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Junk yard      -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
Kennel         P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.38
Laundry and
linen supply   -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
service
Micro-brewery,
micro-winery,  -       -  -     U   U   -  P/ P/C -  P/    -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.78
micro-                                     C         C
distillery
Motel          -       -  -     U   U   -  -  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Motor vehicle
paint or body  -       -  -     U   U   -  P  P   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   3
shop
Motor vehicle                           P/ P/        P/
sales, rental  -       -  -     U   U   C  C  -   -  C     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.45
and leasing
Motor vehicle                              P/
repair and     -       -  -     U   U   -  C  P   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.46
maintenance
Motor vehicle  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P/ -  U   3    8-3.8.47
storage yard                                                     C
Nursery, lawn
and garden     P/C     -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.48
supply store,                           C  C
retail
Outdoor
display and    -       -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C -  P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.50
sales of                                C  C         C     C  C  C
merchandise
Outdoor        -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   3    8-3.8.51
storage                                                       C  C
Parking lot or -       -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.52
deck                                    C  C      C  C     C  C  C
Pawn shop      -       -  -     U   U   P  P  -   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   2
Planned
Commercial     -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.73
Development
Raceways and   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ -  -  U   5    8-3.8.55
drag strips                                                   C
Restaurant,
with drive-    -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
through
service
Restaurant,
without drive- -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
through
service
Retail,        -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
nonstore
Retail store,  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P     P  -  P  -  U   3
large
Retail store,
small and      -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
medium
Riding stables P       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   2
Shooting range -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P/ P     P  P  P  -  U   2
(indoor)                                          C
Shooting range -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   2
(outdoor)
Shopping       -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P     P  -  P  -  U   3
center, large
Shopping       -       -  -     U   U   -  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
center, medium
Shopping       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
center, small
Studios (art,
dance, music,  P/C     -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.79
or
photographic)
Theater,       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
indoor
Theater,       -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.69
drive-in                                             C        C  C
Veterinary     P/C     -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.71
services                                C  C
Industrial Uses
Abattoirs      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   5
Asphalt and
concrete plant         -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   4    8-3.8.81
and                                                           C  C
contractors
Building
material
salvage yards,
general        -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ -  -  U   5    8-3.8.82
salvage yards,                                                C
scrap metal
processing
yards
Building                                   P/        P/    P/
contractors,   -       -  -     U   U   -  C  -   -  C     C  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.12
general
Building                                             P/    P/
contractors,   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  C     C  P  P  -  U   4    8-3.8.12
heavy
Bulk storage                                                  P/
of petroleum   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  C  -  -  U   5    8-3.8.14
products
Dry cleaning
and laundry    -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   5
plants
Feed and flour -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   5
mills
Laboratory
(analytical,
experimental   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3
testing,
research and
development)
Laboratory,
medical or     -       -  -     U   U   -  P  -   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
dental
Landfill, land                                                P/
clearing and   -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  C  -  -  -   2    8-3.8.40
inert debris
Landfill,
construction   -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   4    8-3.8.39
and demolition
Landfill,      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
sanitary
Manufacturing  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     P  P  P  -  U   3
A
Manufacturing  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   4
B
Manufacturing  -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   5
C
Meat packing   -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   5    8-3.8.83
plant                                                         C  C
Motor vehicle
dismantling    -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
and wrecking
yard
Planned
Industrial     -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     P  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.73
Development
Printing or    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  -   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   3
binding
Quarries or
other          -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
extractive
industries
Saw mills      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ -  -  U   5    8-3.8.13
                                                              C
Storage and    -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  -   5    8-3.8.65
salvage yard                                                  C  C
Terminal,      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   5    8-3.8.68
freight                                                       C  C
Tire recapping -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   5    8-3.8.70
shops                                                         C  C
Warehousing
(excluding     -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   3
self-storage)
Warehousing,   -       -  -     U   U   -  P/ -   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.77
self storage                               C
Waste          -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
incineration
Waste transfer -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ P/ -  U   5    8-3.8.72
station                                                       C  C
Wholesale      -       -  -     U   U   -  P  -   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   3
trade A
Wholesale      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P  P  -  U   4
trade B
Governmental and Institutional Uses
Amateur (ham)  P/C     P/ P/    P/C P/C P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/
radio antenna          C  C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C  C
Child care     P/C     -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.19
institution                             C  C      C  C     C
Church or
religious              P/ P/            P/ P/     P/ P/    P/ P/ P/
institution,   P/C     C  C     P/C P/C C  C  P/C C  C     C  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.20.1
neighborhood
scale
Church or
religious                               P/ P/
institution,   P/C     -  -     U   U   C  C  P/C P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.20
community
scale
Civic,
fraternal,
cultural, and
community      P/C     -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.21
facilities not
otherwise
listed
Club or lodge,
private non-   P       -  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.21
profit
College or     P/C     -  P     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P/    P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.24
university                              C  C         C
Collocations;
antenna        P/C     P/ P/    P/C P/C P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/ P/C      8-3.8.66
building               C  C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C  C
attachments
Community      P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P/    P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.25
center                 C  C             C  C         C
Congregate     P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.49
care facility          C  C             C  C      C  C     C
Correctional   S       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  P/ -  -  U   5    8-3.8.27
institution                                                   C
Daycare,       P/C     -  P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.19
center                    C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C
Daycare, large P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.28
home                   C  C             C  C      C  C
Daycare, small P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.28
home                   C  C             C  C      C  C
Emergency      P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   1
shelters
Funeral home   -       -  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.32
Government
offices,
courthouses,
and similar    P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
governmental
facilities not
otherwise
listed
Group care     -       -  -     -   P/C -  -  -   P/ P/    -  P  P  -  -   5    8-3.8.87
facility A                                        C  C
Group care
facility B                                        P/ P/       P/ P/
Correctional   -       -  -     -   P/C -  -  -   C  C     -  C  C  -  -   5    8-3.8.87
care group
facility
Group care
facility C     -       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  S  S  -  -   5    8-3.8.88
Theraputic
community
Group home A   P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P     -  -  P  -  U   1    8-3.8.34
                       C  C             C  C
Group home B   P/C     -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P     -  -  P  -  U   1    8-3.8.34
                                        C  C
Habilitation   P/C     -  P/    U   U   P  P  P   P  P     -  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.35
facility - A              C
Habilitation   P/C     -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     -  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.35
facility - B
Institutional
uses, not      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   2
otherwise
listed
Library,       P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
public
Museum or art  P/C     -  P/    U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.85
gallery                   C
Nursing care   P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.49
institution            C  C             C  C      C  C     C
Post office    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Postal
facility,      P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
neighborhood
Progressive    P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ -  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.54
care community         C  C             C  C      C  C     C
Public safety
stations
including      P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
police, fire,
and rescue
services
Public works   P       -  -     U   U   -  P  -   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.86
facility
Schools,
elementary and
secondary,     P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.62
including              C  C             C  C         C     C  C  C
school
stadiums
Schools,                  P/            P/ P/        P/    P/ P/ P/
vocational or  P/C     -  C     U   U   C  C  P/C P  C     C  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.63
professional
Small wireless
cells meeting          P/ P/            P/ P/     P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/
the standards  P/C     C  C     P/C P/C C  C  P/C C  C     C  C  C  C  P/C      8-3.8.66
of
8-3.8.66(E)
Solar energy                                                     P/
generating     S       -  -     -   -   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  C  -  -   1    8-3.8.75
facility
Stealth
towers,
wireless
support
structures,    P/C     P/ P/    P/C P/C P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/ P/C      8-3.8.66
antennas;              C  C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C  C
substantial
modifications
more than 60
feet tall
Towers,
antennas owned
or operated by
a government   P       P  P     P   P   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  P  P        8-3.8.66
agency for a
government
purpose
Towers,
wireless
support                                           P/ P/    P/ P/ P/
structures and P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   C  C     C  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.66
antennas 60
feet tall or
less
Towers,
wireless
support
structures,                                       P/ P/    P/ P/ P/
antennas;      P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   C  C     C  C  C  -  U   2    8-3.8.66
substantial
modifications
more than 60
feet tall
Utilities,     P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/ U   1    8-3.8.1
above ground           C  C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C  C
Utilities,     P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  P  U   1
below ground
Yard waste     P       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P  P     P  P  P  P  U   2
composting
Professional Office and Medical Uses
Clinics        -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Health
services,      -       -  -     U   U   -  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
miscellaneous
Hospital       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3
Medical and
surgical       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
offices
Offices,       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
professional
Optical        -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
services
Orthopedic     -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
supply houses
Pharmacy       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
Recreational Uses
Arenas         P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P/ P     P  P  P  -  U   4    8-3.8.9
                                                  C
Assembly
halls,
coliseums,
armories,                               P/
ballrooms,     -       -  -     U   U   C  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.9
reception
halls and
exhibition
buildings
Golf course            P/ P/            P/
and driving    P/C     C  C     U   U   C  -  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.56
range
Park and open
space areas
including      P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  P  U   1
athletic
fields
Recreational
facilities,    P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  P  U   2    8-3.8.56
public or              C  C
private
Recreation
services,      P/C     -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.57
indoor
Recreation                              P/ P/
services,      P/C     -  -     U   U   C  C  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2    8-3.8.57
outdoor
Recreational   S       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P     -  P  P  -  U   2
vehicle park
Residential Uses
Accessory              P/ P/            P/ P/        P/
dwelling unit- P/C     C  C     U   U   C  C  P/C -  C     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.3
attached
Accessory              P/ P/            P/ P/        P/
dwelling unit- P/C     C  C     U   U   C  C  P/C -  C     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.3
detached
Boarding or
rooming house  P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C -  P     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.11
for up to 3            C  C             C  C
boarders
Boarding or
rooming house  -       -  -     U   U   P/ P/ P/C -  P     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.11
for 4 to 6                              C  C
boarders
Cluster        P       P/ P     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.23
subdivisions           C
Dormitory      P/C     -  P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P  P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.29
                          C             C  C         C     C  C  C
Manufactured
home, Class A  -       -  -     P/C U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.41
or Class B
Manufactured           P/ P/            P/        P/ P/
home,          P/C     C  C     U   U   C  -  P/C C  C     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.42
temporary
Manufactured   -       -  -     P/C U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.43
home park
Manufactured
home           -       -  -     P/C U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.44
subdivision
Residential            P/ P/            P/ P/
building,      P/C     C  C     U   U   C  C  P/C -  P     -  -  -  -  U   1    8-3.8.59
duplex
Residential               P/            P/ P/        P/    P/
building,              -  C*    U   P/C C* C* P/C -  C*    C  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.60
multi-family
Residential
building,      P       P  P     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     -  -  -  P  U   1
single family
Residential    P/         P/            P/ P/        P/
building,      C*      -  C*    U   P/C C* C  P/C -  C*    -  -  -  -  U   2    8-3.8.60
townhouse
Service Uses
Cemetery       P/C     P/ P/    U   U   P/ P/ P/C P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   2    8-3.8.18
                       C  C             C  C      C  C     C  C  C
Personal       -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   -  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
services
Services A,    -       -  -     U   U   P  P  P   P  P     P  P  P  -  U   2
business
Services B,    -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P  P  -  U   3    8-3.8.64
business                                             C
Terminal, bus  -       -  -     U   U   -  P  P   -  P     -  P  -  -  U   3
or taxi
Miscellaneous Uses
Accessory              P/ P/            P/ P/     P/ P/    P/ P/ P/
communication  P/C     C  C     U   U   C  C  P/C C  C     C  C  C  -  U   1    8-3.8.2
antennae
Airports       -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  S  S  -  U   4
Fairgrounds    P/C     -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P/ P     P  P/ P  -  U   4    8-3.8.30
                                                  C           C
Hazardous
waste          -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  -  -  -  -   5
management
facility
Heliport       -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  P/    -  P/ P/ -  U   1    8-3.8.36
                                                     C        C  C
Recycling and                                                 P/ P/
Salvage        -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   -  -     -  C  C  -  U   3    8-3.8.74
Operation
Recycling      -       -  -     U   U   -  -  -   P  P/    P/ P/ P/ -  U   3    8-3.8.58
center                                               C     C  C  C
Temporary
seasonal uses
and                       P/            P/ P/     P/ P/    P/ P/ P/ P/
structures,    P/C     -  C     U   U   C  C  P/C C  C     C  C  C  C  U   1    8-3.8.67
including
seasonal
markets
Planned mixed
conditional        M A    M                             M
development               A                             A
(PMCD)
 
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.3.5) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-6-2012; Amended 8-5-2014;
Amended 10-4-16; Amended 10-3-2017; Amended 9-4-2018; Amended 3-12-2020;
Amended 6-2-2020; Amended 10-4-2022; Amended 3-5-2024; Amended 11-5-2024;
Amended 5-6-2025)
§ 8-3.4 DESIGN STANDARDS.
§ 8-3.4.1 Purpose and Applicability.
   In order to ensure that new development, renovations and reconstructions are
designed, sized and sited to complement the area in which they are located and
the character of the town in general; and to minimize traffic hazards and
situations which endanger public safety; and to protect existing development
and property values through the promotion of high standards of design and
compatibility; and to provide for a high quality of life for our citizens by
promoting a variety of housing styles, transportation choices and well planned
parks and open spaces; the following standards shall apply to all development
in all zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.2 Design Standards for Buildings.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   (A)   Arcades, awnings and canopies. In order to promote the appropriate use
of arcades, awnings and canopies, the following standards shall apply to all
arcades, awnings and canopies on all buildings, unless otherwise noted.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Awnings and canopies,
where provided, shall be
placed at the top of
window and door openings   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
and shall relate to the
shape of the top of the
window or doorway.
(2) Awnings and canopies
shall be made of canvas or
similar material. Vinyl or
metal awnings shall not be
used unless they are
constructed and designed
to successfully mimic the  -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
style and appearance of
canvas awnings or unless
they are constructed of
copper and designed as
accent pieces for windows
or doors.
(3) No awning on any
commercial, office or
institutional building,
which encroaches on a
sidewalk, shall extend out
from the building more     X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
than two-thirds the width
of the sidewalk or nine
feet, whichever is less,
nor shall it at any point
be less than 7.5 feet
above the sidewalk.
(4) Awnings and canopies
shall be self-supporting
from the wall; no supports X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
shall rest on or interfere
with the use of pedestrian
walkways or streets.
(5) In no case shall any
awning, canopy or arcade
extend beyond the street   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
curb or interfere with
street trees or public
utilities.
(6) Where provided,
arcades shall cover the
entire sidewalk from the
building front to the      X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
sidewalk edge but shall
not extend continuously
from one building to the
next.
(7) Where provided,
arcades shall be designed
as an integral part of the
building and as such shall X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
relate in design,
placement, material, color
and scale to the building
facade.
 
   (B)   Building height and width. In order to define urban street space,
foster compatibility between development sites and to emphasize the downtown as
the core of the community, the following standards shall apply to all
buildings, unless otherwise noted.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Additions and new
construction adjacent to
the traditional town
center should maintain the
existing building wall
pattern by extending the
building front from side   -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
lot line to side lot line,
except that an appropriate
architectural wall or
similar design feature may
be used instead of a
building extension.
 
   (C)   Building presentation. In order to have buildings that successfully
address public streets and public places, the following standards shall apply
to all buildings, unless otherwise noted.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Building facades shall
be substantially parallel
to the front property line
except that:
(a) Corner buildings may
be oriented to address the
corner and                 X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  X  U
(b) Buildings interior to
a development site may be
arranged to front a common
courtyard, parking area,
driveway or private
street.
(2) All development sites
shall front public
streets, except in rural
areas where private roads  X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
may serve up to five
separate single-family
residential lots.
(3) Each dwelling in a
duplex located on a corner
or through lot shall front
a separate street whenever
practicable except where   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   -  X  -  -  -  -  U
access is restricted or
where the town determines
that access to an adjacent
street is not desirable.
(4) Any side of a non-
residential building that
is not intended to serve
the public shall be
screened from public view
and the view of adjacent
properties to the extent   -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  -  U
that all loading, storage,
solid waste, maintenance
equipment (brooms, mops,
buckets, etc) and similar
items are not visible to
the public.
(5) Any side of a building
that faces an arterial or
collector street shall be  -   -  X  U    X    X  X  X   X  X  -  -  -  -  U
treated as a building
facade.
 
   (D)   Exterior materials. In order to have buildings clad with a type,
texture and color of material that relates to natural material elements found
in Davie County and which respects our history and the area of town in which
the building is located, the following standards shall apply to all building
exteriors, unless otherwise noted.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Additions and new
construction shall use
facing materials that are
compatible in quality,
color, texture, finish and
dimension to those common  -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
in the downtown area.
Acceptable materials
include, but may not be
limited to, brick, stone
(synthetic or natural),
stucco or wood.
(2) Under no circumstances
shall metal or vinyl
siding be used on any
structure except that
vinyl and aluminum
imitation clapboard siding
and shakes may be used as
accent pieces on all
floors above the ground    -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
level floor. (This does
not prohibit the use of
durable metal or vinyl
accent pieces or columns
on street level surfaces
when such are made to
mimic traditional
detailing (cornices, trim
pieces, moldings, etc.)
(3) Large modular
materials shall be avoided
or used only as accent
pieces on street fronting  X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
facades. (Applies only to
non-residential and non-
industrial buildings.)
(4) Paint colors used on
non-residential buildings
shall be of low
reflectance, subtle,
neutral or earth tone
colors or shall relate to
natural material colors
found within the town      -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
generally or on
neighboring historic
buildings. Contrasting
colors of brighter hues,
including pastels, may be
used to accent
architectural details and
entrances.
(5) Roof and exterior wall
colors shall be low-       X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
reflecting.
 
   (E)   Facades, windows and roofs. In order to have well designed facades
that add to the town's architectural inventory and that provide visual interest
to the pedestrian, the following standards shall apply to all facades, windows
and roofs.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) New construction and
additions to or remodeling
of existing buildings in
all commercial and mixed
use zoning districts shall -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  -  -  -  U
maintain a clear visual
division between street
level and any upper
floors.
(2) Retail activities
within buildings shall be
oriented toward the street -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
and have direct access
from sidewalks through
storefront entrances.
(3) No publicly accessed
building front shall
remain unbroken
(unpierced) by a window,
architectural element,
entrance or functional     -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
general access doorway for
more than 100 feet. (This
standard shall not apply
to industrial buildings
located in the SP, CB or
GI Districts.)
(4) The primary entrance
to a building shall be
architecturally and
functionally designed on   -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
the front facade of the
building facing the
primary public street.
(5) Building entrances
shall be emphasized using
design (massing),          -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  -  -  -  U
architectural features and
changes in the roofline.
(6) No less than 50% of
the horizontal distance of
any building front shall
be designed with arcades,
windows, entrances,
awnings, architectural
elements including, but
not limited to, pilasters, -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
wall control joints,
building appendages,
screen walls or changes in
parapet wall heights.
(This standard does not
apply to industrial
buildings in the SP or CB
Districts.)
(7) Buildings with uses
serving the public shall
have recessed or covered
doorways at each building
front to shelter customers -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  -  U
from the weather. (This
standard does not apply to
industrial buildings in
the SP or CB Districts.)
(8) New construction and
remodeling of existing
buildings shall maintain
the prevalent pattern and  -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
spacing of the windows and
doorways on historic
downtown buildings.
(9) Windows on the street
level front of commercial
buildings shall constitute
at least 20% and not more
than 50% of the front      -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
facade. Windows on
subsequent levels shall be
a minimum of fifteen
square feet each.
(10) Display windows on
commercial buildings shall
be clear, transparent
glass and shall not be     -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
lower than twelve inches
above the sidewalk
(including the lintel).
(11) Frames and sashes for
windows shall be of wood,
vinyl or pre-finished
metal and shall have       -   -  -  U    U    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
stone, brick or cast
concrete lintels and
sills.
(12) Window glass in non-
residential buildings
shall always be set back   -   -  -  U    U    -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
from the building face
rather than flush.
(13) Architectural
embellishments that add
visual interest to a
facade or roof such as
dormers, belvederes,       X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
masonry chimneys, cupolas,
clock towers and other
similar elements are
encouraged.
 
   (F)   Location. In order to use location as a means of encouraging
compatibility of design and use on individual development sites and between
zoning districts, the following standards shall apply to all lots, unless
otherwise noted.
 
                           RES.                MIXED        COM. & IND. ENV
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Multi-family, mixed
use, nursing care and
progressive care community
buildings containing
dwellings shall be set     X   X  X  X    U    X  X  X   X  X  -  -  -  -  U
back a minimum of fifteen
feet from internal
driveways and parking
areas
(2) A build-to line shall
be established along all
block fronts, including
lots that front public
spaces, in all new
subdivisions. The build-to
line shall be consistent
across block fronts and    X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  -  -  -  U
shall comply with minimum
setback requirements for
the District. A minimum
percentage build-out at
the build-to line shall be
established on the plan
along all streets and
public square frontages.
 
   (G)   Residential design. In order to promote thoughtful residential design
that will result in the creation and maintenance of strong, vibrant
neighborhoods, the following standards shall apply to all residential
buildings, unless otherwise noted.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Decks and patios shall
only be installed on the
side or rear of the house.
(This shall not in any way
affect handicap ramps or   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
the use of decking
materials in the creation
of a traditional front
porch.)
(2) Porches shall be
permitted to extend up to  X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
five feet into a required
front yard.
(3) Garages and carports,
if provided, shall be
placed flush with or
behind the front wall area
of the principle structure
on residential buildings   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
located in the town center
District or established
historic Districts within
the town. If possible,
garages shall be side or
rear loading.
(4) Garages and carports
accessed by an alley shall
be setback less than five
feet or more than 18 feet
from the edge of pavement  X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
of the alleyway. (Applies
to all residential
buildings in all zoning
districts.)
 
   (H)   Size, scale and compatibility of design. In order to promote
compatibility of design within the built environment while encouraging
creativity and variety, the following standards shall apply to all buildings,
unless otherwise noted.
 
              Res.                       Mixed        Com. & Ind.       Env
              OSR OSR GR NR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC HC CD CB SP GI FP WS-O
                  CD        CD
(1) Large
multi-family
buildings
shall be
broken down
in scale by
exterior
architectural
features      -       -  -     U    X    X  X  X   X  X        X  -  -  -  U
(e.g. by
designing the
facade to
mimic the
appearance of
multiple
contiguous
buildings).
(2) Building
or store
entrances in
commercial
and mixed use
Districts
serving the
public shall
occur at
least once    -       -  -     -    -    X  X  X   X  X        -  -  -  -  U
every 150
feet along a
building
facade. (This
standard
shall not
apply to
industrial
buildings.)
(3) No single
multi-family
development
shall contain X       -  X     U    X    X  X  X   -  X        -  -  -  -  U
more than 10
acres or 140
units.
(4) Wall
articulations
(or breaks in
the facade or
roofline)
shall be
designed into
all non-
residential
buildings not
less than
every 60 feet
or more than  -       -  -     -    -    X  X  X   X  X        X  X  X  -  U
every 160
feet along
the building
facade. (This
standard
shall not
apply to
industrial
buildings in
the CB, SP or
GI
Districts.)
(5) Wall
articulations
(or breaks in
the facade or
roofline)
shall be
designed into
all multi-
family        X       -  X     U    X    X  X  X   -  X        -  -  -  -  U
residential
buildings not
less than
every 40 feet
or more than
every 10 feet
along the
building
facade.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.3 Design Standards for Lots.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   (A)   Lot size and configuration. The following standards shall apply to all
lots, unless otherwise noted.
 
                                       Res.              Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                                       OSR GR NR MH- MF- NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-
                                                 O   O                               O
(1) Flag lots and zero frontage lots
shall be permitted within single-
family subdivisions and industrial
parks, including all phases, serving
not more than five lots where a shared
driveway or private street provides
access as long as:
(a) The building numbers served by the
driveway/ street are posted next to
the public street and again where
access to individual lots intersects
the shared driveway/street,            X   -  -  U   U   -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
(b) A legally binding shared driveway
and/or private street use and
maintenance agreement is filed at the
Register of Deeds of Davie County and
(c) The shared driveway or private
road is shown, along with all
appropriate and necessary easements,
on a recorded plat and a note is
attached thereto stipulating the use
of the driveway and referencing any
recorded agreements.
(2) Flag lots and zero frontage lots
shall be permitted to serve above      X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
ground utility sites.
(3) All new lots shall meet the
dimensional requirements listed in §  X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
8-3.3.
 
   (B)   Access.   The intent of these standards is to promote safe, convenient
and sufficient access to all properties by vehicles, pedestrians and
bicyclists. The following standards shall apply to all uses, unless otherwise
noted.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) All vehicular access
to a development
containing multiple
destinations (e.g. malls,
strip centers, multiple
building developments,
etc.) shall be provided by -   -  -  -    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
means of a shared
driveway, side street or
frontage road. (This
standard shall not apply
to industrial buildings in
the CB, SP or GI
Districts.)
(2) No new driveway on any
development site, which
accesses a major arterial
or collector street with a
posted speed limit in
excess of 35 mph and an
average daily traffic
volume greater than 5000
vehicles per day, shall be X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
created less than 80 feet
from an existing driveway
except where the
prohibition would deny
access to the property or
where a safe sight
distance cannot be
achieved otherwise.
(3) No new driveway on any
development site shall be
created less than 80 feet
from a street intersection
except where the           X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
prohibition would deny
access to the property or
where a safe sight
distance cannot be
achieved otherwise.
(4) The approaches to
loading and unloading
areas in mixed use and
commercial Districts shall
be designed to minimize    -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  -  U
conflict with on-site
vehicular, pedestrian and
bicycle traffic and with
adjacent residential uses.
(5) Buildings with uses
requiring public access
shall provide the primary  -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
pedestrian access from the
street front.
(6) At least one driveway
or other vehicular link
shall be provided between
adjacent mixed use and     -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
commercial properties,
such as shops and offices,
that require public
access.
(7) Driveways shall be
paved with a minimum ten
foot wide apron made of
asphalt, concrete or
similar hard material
suitable for driveway use  X   X  X  U    U    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  X  -  U
which extends at least ten
feet from the edge of the
public street to prevent
washout into the public
street and to protect the
edge of pavement.
(8) Whenever practicable,
driveways shall be aligned
with driveways on the      -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
opposite side of the
public street.
(9) Shared driveways are   X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
encouraged.
(10) Private roads that
serve up to five single-
family detached            X   -  -  -    -    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
residential lots may be
permitted by the town on a
case-by-case basis.
(11) A multi-family,
townhouse, commercial or
industrial development
site consisting of one or
more legal lots of record
which is developed under a
coordinated, approved site
specific plan may be
permitted, on a case by
case basis, to be served
by a private street        X   X  X  U    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
network and shall only be
required to abut a public
street along some portion
of the development site
the minimum distance of
which shall be determined
by the town to be adequate
for public and emergency
vehicle access but which
shall not be less than 35
feet.
(12) The number of
driveway intersections
along major arterial
streets with a posted
speed limit in excess of
35 mph and an average
daily traffic volume
greater than 5000 vehicles
per day shall be minimized
whenever practicable, but
in no case shall there be
more than one driveway per
street frontage on a lot   X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
or development site
except:
(a) Where street frontage
exceeds 700 feet there may
be two driveways and
(b) Where street frontage
exceeds 1200 feet, three
such points may be
allowed, but
(c) Three driveways shall
be the maximum allowable
on any street frontage.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.4 Design Standards for Parking and Loading/Unloading Areas.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   In order to have safe, well designed parking areas that successfully
accommodate the pedestrian and are subordinate in design and appearance to
adjacent buildings, the following standards apply to all accessory and
principle use parking lots in all Districts unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   Location.
 
                                          Res.              Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                                          OSR GR NR MH- MF- NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-
                                                    O   O                               O
(1) Parking shall be located primarily to
the rear of the principle building and
may be accessed from the front, side or
rear of the property. No more than two
rows of parking shall be located between  -   -  -  -   -   X  -  -   X  -  X  X  X  -  U
a primary facade and the street. (This
standard does not apply to retail stores,
shopping centers or industrial buildings
in the CB, SP or GI Districts.)
(2) On-site parking shall be located
primarily to the rear of the principle
building and may be accessed from the
front, side or rear of the property. None -   -  -  -   X   -  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
of the parking provided shall be located
between a primary facade and a public
street.
(3) On multi-building development sites
where the principle buildings are located
close to the perimeter of the development
site, parking may be permitted to be
located in the front of any building
which does not front a public street
(such as an interior courtyard parking
arrangement). On the sites, any street
fronting portion of the development,
whether for lease or sale, which is
intended to provide screening between the
public street and interior parking lot(s)
but which has not yet been developed
shall, in addition to outparcel
landscaping requirements, be subject to   -   -  -  -   -   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
the landscaping and screening
requirements for parking lots adjacent to
street frontages prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for any use on
site after the interior parking lot is
constructed. At the discretion of the
planning director, the additional
landscaping may be incorporated into the
parking lot itself instead of the
outparcel and may only be required for
that portion of the lot which is exposed
to the public street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1375.jpg]
(4) Parking lots and parking garages
shall not abut an intersection of
arterial streets or occupy lots which     -   -  -  -   X   X  X  X   -  X  -  -  -  -  U
terminate a vista (a distant view through
or along a street or public space).
(5) On-street parking directly in front
of the zoning lot shall count toward      -   -  -  -   -   X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
fulfilling the parking requirement of
that lot.
 
   (B)   Connectivity.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) New parking areas on
adjacent non-residential
and non-industrial lots
shall be connected unless  -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
the town determines that
topography or other
natural features prevents
it.
(2) All off-street parking
shall be served by
interior circulation
drives. No private off-    X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
street parking spaces
shall directly connect to
public streets.
 
   (C)   Paving.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) All driveway and
parking areas shall be
paved with asphalt,
concrete or brick pavers
except for areas used for
overflow, special events
and peak parking. (This
standard does not apply to X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
single-family detached
residential lots and shall
only apply to that portion
of an industrial lot that
is used for and serves
employee and/or visitor
parking.)
(2) Any non-paved surface
used for overflow, special
events and peak parking
that cannot be maintained
with healthy, living turf
grass or similar ground
cover shall be paved with  X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
asphalt, concrete,
pervious pavement or brick
pavers. (This standard
does not apply to single-
family detached
residential lots.)
(3) Any non-paved surface
used for parking or
driveways on industrial
sites shall be maintained  -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
with crushed rock, stone,
gravel or similar
material.
 
   (D)   Aisles.
 
                                                                  RES.              MIXED        COM. & IND. ENV
                                                                  OSR GR NR MH- MF- NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-
                                                                            O   O                               O
(1) No more than two parking aisles (defined as a travel lane and
the parking located on each side) shall abut. Otherwise, parking
aisles shall be separated from each other by planted medians
which may include pedestrian walkways. (See §
8-3.5 for landscaping requirements.) As an alternative for
parking lots designed for any single large retail store or any
shopping center containing 300 or more parking spaces, up to 4    X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
parking aisles may abut provided the interior landscaping and
design requirements for large parking lots are met within the
parking lot excluding any perimeter, streetyard, internal
driveway, required buffer or other landscape area required by §
8-3.5 Landscaping. The maximum distance between required
landscape medians shall be no greater than 250 feet.
(2) No more than 15 parking spaces shall be contiguous and
adjoining in a single row of parking spaces except as provided    X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
for large parking lot landscaping and design in §
8-3.5, Landscaping.
(3) Aisles shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width if serving two-
way traffic and a minimum of 12 feet in width if serving one-way  X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
traffic.
(4) No parking aisle serving the general public that contains
more than 10 parking spaces shall dead-end. Any parking aisle     X   X  X  U   U   X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
that dead-ends shall be provided a suitable turnaround.
 
   (E)   Spaces and loading/unloading areas.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Required parking shall
be provided on-site or
adjacent to the
development site requiring
the parking. Shared
parking areas are
encouraged and shall be    X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
permitted whenever the
Zoning Administrator
determines that the
minimum parking
requirements can be met
for each use.
(2) Parking spaces shall
be clearly marked on the
ground for all uses except X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
single-family detached
residential.
(3) No parking space shall
measure less than nine     X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
feet in width and eighteen
feet in length.
(4) Parking shall be
provided at the rate of
one space per 500 square
feet of gross floor area
except for the following:
(a) Office uses shall have
at least one space per 300
gross square feet of
building area.
(b) Warehouse uses shall
have at least one space
per each employee on the
shift with highest
employment plus one space
per each vehicle in
business use.
(c) Schools shall have at
least one space per
employee, one space per
five students and one
space per each school bus
kept on site.
(d) Private parking is not
required for uses located
within the TC District.
(e) Shopping centers shall
have at least three spaces X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
(f) Industrial uses shall
have at least one space
per 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
(g) Single-family and
duplex residential units
shall have at least two
spaces per unit.
(h) Multi-family
residential units shall
have at least 1-1/2 spaces
per unit.
(i) Civic, social and
fraternal organizations
shall have at least 1
space per 250 square feet
of gross floor area.
(j) Auditoriums and places
of public assembly shall
have at least 1 space per
6 seats or 1 space per 50
square feet of gross floor
area if no seats are
provided.
(5) In addition to
required parking spaces,
drive-thru facilities
shall provide a minimum of
five stacking spaces per
drive-thru facility,
window or bay, except for
the following:
(a) Fast food restaurants
shall have an additional
five stacking spaces. A
minimum of five of the
total stacking spaces
shall be located at or     X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
prior to the ordering
station.
(b) Non-automated car
washes shall only be
required to have a minimum
of two stacking spaces per
bay, one of which is
located for use as a dry
down area.
(c) Automated car washes
shall be required to have
an additional two stacking
spaces per bay.
(6) Stacking spaces shall
be located entirely
outside of a required      X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  X
driveway or parking aisle
needed to access required
parking spaces,
(7) Adequate on-site
turnaround area shall be   X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
provided for all parking
spaces.
(8) Adequate on-site
turnaround area shall be   -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
provided for all loading
and unloading areas.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.5 Design Standards for Services and Utilities.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   In order to subordinate the appearance of services and utilities on
individual sites and throughout the town's jurisdiction, the following
standards shall apply to all services and utilities in all Districts unless
otherwise noted.
   (A)   Mechanical equipment.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Mechanical equipment
at ground level shall be
placed on the parking lot
side of buildings away
from public streets and
buildings on adjacent
sites, except for non-     X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  X
multi-family residential
uses and industrial
buildings in the SP and GI
Districts. All equipment
shall be substantially
screened from public view.
(2) Mechanical equipment
and antennas located on
rooftops shall be
camouflaged as a normal
architectural feature of   -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
the building or hidden by
a decorative cornice or
parapet wall, as seen from
the ground.
 
   (B)   Utility lines and equipment.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) All utility equipment
(includes meters, boxes,
valves, etc. but does not
include overhead power
lines, light poles and
similar equipment) shall
be designed and located to -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
be as inconspicuous as
possible and shall not be
located on the street-side
of a principal structure,
except industrial
buildings located in the
SP and GI Districts.
(2) All utility lines
serving new development or
subdivisions shall be      X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
placed underground
whenever practicable.
(3) Utilities shall run
along alleys whenever      X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
practicable.
 
   (C)   Trash, garbage and recycling.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) All trash and
recycling receptacles and
storage areas shall be     -   -  -  -    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
located away from public
streets and screened
entirely from public view.
(2) All non-vegetative
screening used to block
public view of trash and
recycling receptacles and
storage areas shall be     -   -  -  -    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  X  U
made of materials
compatible in color and
type to the principle
structure(s) on the
property.
 
   (D)   Drive-thru windows and similar accessories.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Drive-thru windows,
freestanding ATMs, fuel
pumps and similar devices
shall only be placed in
areas that will not        -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
interfere with the safe
movement of pedestrians
and vehicles in parking
and driveway areas.
(2) Drive-thru windows,
freestanding ATMs, fuel
pumps and similar devices
shall not be placed
between the primary facade
of a building and the      -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
public street. (This
standards does not apply
to industrial uses located
in the GI and SP
Districts.)
(3) Drive-thru services
are discouraged in the
Town Center District. If
provided, they shall be    -   -  -  -    -    -  X  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  U
located to the rear or
side of buildings away
from public streets.
 
   (E)   Engineered storm water control facilities.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) All storm water
detention and/or retention
ponds and basins shall be
designed as an integral
part of the development
site and shall be          -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  -  U
aesthetically pleasing
(e.g. neatly landscaped,
well-maintained, vegetated
slopes, decorative fencing
if fencing is used, etc.).
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.6 Design Standards for Natural Resource Areas.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   In order to protect our natural resources while continuing to support
healthy economic growth, the following standards shall apply to all natural
resource areas and features in all zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
 
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Piping or channeling
creeks and streams shall   X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
be avoided whenever
practicable.
(2) Natural landscapes and
areas of mature trees,
especially near creeks,    X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
streams and lakes shall be
protected during
development.
(3) Naturalized stream
banks shall be maintained
whenever practicable. Rip  X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
rap and similar devices
shall be avoided.
(4) Stream crossings by
streets and trails shall
be avoided unless          X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
necessary to provide or
maintain connectivity.
(5) Open space systems
shall be designed to
incorporate and protect    X   X  X  X    X    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  X
significant natural
features whenever
practicable.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.7 Design Standards for Streets, Sidewalks, Trails and Pedestrian
Pathways.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   In order to have a safe, efficient, well connected street network and to
promote a safe, efficient, integrated system of pedestrian facilities
throughout the town's jurisdiction, the following standards shall apply to all
streets, sidewalks, trails and pedestrian pathways in all zoning districts
unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   Streets.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Cul-de-sacs shall be
permitted only where
necessary due to
topography or other
environmental conditions   -   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
and shall not be allowed
to extend more than 1000
feet nor serve more than
ten lots.
(2) Streets shall
interconnect where         -   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   -  X  -  -  -  -  U
practicable.
(3) Planted medians shall
be constructed on new      X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
streets with four or more
lanes.
(4) All streets shall be
designed and maintained
for public access except   X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
for private streets
approved by the town.
(5) Local streets serving
commercial and mixed use
areas shall be designed to X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  -  -  -  -  -  U
permit on-street parking
where practicable.
(6) Street design and
location shall, whenever
practicable, follow        X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
topographical changes to
avoid excessive cuts and
fills.
(7) Streets shall be
designed and located in a
way to avoid the
destruction of significant X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
trees and natural areas
identified as part of a
tree protection plan.
(8) Street stubs with a
suitable temporary
turnaround shall be
provided within            X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
developments adjacent to
open land to provide for
future connections where
practicable.
(9) Long segments of
straight local streets
shall be prevented by
intersections designed to:
(a) Disperse traffic flow
and reduce speeds, thereby
eliminating the creation
of de facto collector      X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  -  X  U
streets with high speed,
high volume traffic; and
(b) Terminate vistas with
a significant natural
feature, a building, a
small park or other public
space.
 
   (B)   Sidewalks, trails and pedestrian pathways.
 Res. Mixed Com. & Ind. Env
                           Res.                Mixed        Com. & Ind. Env
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Sidewalks shall be
installed where indicated
and to the specifications  X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
shown in the town's
Sidewalk Plan.
Sidewalks shall not be
required if it is
determined that the
provision of the
improvement will not       X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
provide needed linkages or
connections to existing or
planned pedestrian
improvements.
Sidewalks shall not be
required in areas where it
is determined to be a      X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
safety hazard to vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
Sidewalks shall not be
required on renovations or
expansions where the work
does not increase
occupancy levels or        X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
intensity or use or modify
existing parking areas,
vehicular access or
circulation patterns.
When it is determined that
the installation of a
sidewalk is not required a
five (5) foot easement     X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
shall be reserved for a
future construction of the
sidewalk.
(2) Balconies, bay
windows, arcades and
porches located on upper
levels in mixed use
Districts, as well as
their supports at ground
level may encroach over    -   -  -  -    -    X  X  X   X  -  -  -  -  -  U
the public sidewalk. An
encroachment agreement
shall be entered into by
the property owner and the
town prior to construction
of any appurtenance.
(3) Trails shall be paved
in concrete, asphalt or
any loose material that
can be installed and
maintained to meet         X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
Americans with Disability
Act requirements. If loose
material is used, a hard
edge shall be provided to
contain the material.
(4) Sidewalks shall be
paved with concrete, brick X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
or other durable material
acceptable to the town.
(5) Pedestrian crosswalks
shall be incorporated into
the design and
construction of public and
private streets in all
mixed use and commercial   -   -  -  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  -  -  -  U
Districts wherever
pedestrians are likely to
cross the street (e.g. at
intersections and mid
block).
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.7) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.4.8 Design Standards for Lighting.
   X — means that the standard is required
   - — means that the standard is not required
   U — means that standards in the underlying District prevail
   In order to reduce light pollution and light trespass, the following
standards shall apply to all lighting in all Districts except on single-family
detached residential lots, unless otherwise noted.
 
                           RES.                MIXED        COM. & IND. ENV
                           OSR GR NR MH-O MF-O NC TC TND CI HC CB SP GI FP WS-O
(1) Projections of light
shall be confined to stay  X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
within property lines to
prevent light trespass.
(2) Light poles shall be
limited to 30 feet in      -   -  -  U    U    -  -  -   -  X  X  X  X  -  U
height.
(3) All exterior lighting
shall use cut-off type
fixtures to minimize the   X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
component of light above
horizontal (glare).
(4) Emergency lighting,
used by police,
firefighting or medical
personnel or at their
direction, is exempt from
all lighting requirements
herein for as long as the
emergency exists. Lighting
installed for the purpose
of public safety or        X   X  X  U    U    X  X  X   X  X  X  X  X  X  U
security on publicly owned
facilities is exempt from
all lighting requirements
herein to the extent
deemed necessary by the
Town Manager. Facilities
may include schools,
parks, public works and
utilities and other
similar uses.
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.4.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.5 LANDSCAPING, FENCES AND WALLS AND OPEN SPACE.
§ 8-3.5.1 Landscaping.
   In order to maintain and enhance the town's existing tree coverage, to
promote careful landscaping of outdoor areas, to soften and enhance the human-
made environment and to promote the design and construction of appropriate
walls and fences, the following standards shall apply in all zoning districts
unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Commercial outparcels shall be landscaped while vacant to maintain
an attractive appearance. Landscaping shall consist of turf grass, shrubs,
trees or any other vegetative cover that will secure the soil and create an
attractive appearance.
      (2)   All required plantings installed shall be nursery grown stock that
is free from disease or growth problems and shall comply with the latest
edition of the American Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the American
Nurserymen's Association.
      (3)   All required plantings shall be installed in a manner that ensures
the availability of sufficient soil and water for healthy growth and that is
not intrusive to above and below ground utilities. All required plants are
encouraged to be drought tolerant species.
      (4)   Only landscaping and approved fences and walls shall be permitted
within a required buffer or streetyard area, except that sidewalks and other
pedestrian walkways, bicycle paths, aboveground utilities, drainageways and
approved signs shall be permitted where they do not comprise more than 20% of
the total area of the required buffer or streetyard. Underground utilities are
permitted wherever they do not interfere with the ability to provide the
required buffer or streetyard area and landscaping.
      (5)   Clustering and/or random spacing of plants and trees is encouraged
to produce a natural appearance in the landscape, except where uniformity is
required for opaque screening.
      (6)   Landscaping, including berms, shall be installed and maintained so
as not to interfere with the sight distance requirements of this article or the
sight distance needs of drivers in parking areas and at entrance and exit
locations.
      (7)   Small trees are permitted to be substituted for required large
trees whenever the larger tree would interfere with existing overhead utility
lines.
      (8)   Native species and related cultivars are encouraged.
      (9)   Monoculture and over planting shall be avoided except that a single
species of tree may be planted in formal parks or in conjunction with a
streetscape plan.
      (10)   Whenever trees are required (street yards, buffers, parking lots,
etc.), a minimum of 50% shall be canopy trees and a minimum of 20% shall be
evergreen.
      (11)   Whenever shrubs are required for screening, they shall be of a
type that retains their foliage to within six inches of the ground on a year-
round basis.
      (12)   No more than 30% of all shrubs required shall be deciduous.
      (13)   No required planting area shall contain less than 150 square feet
and no planting area shall be less than eight feet in diameter around a
required tree.
      (14)   Parked vehicles may overhang a landscaped area no more than two
and a half feet. Curbing or wheel stops shall be installed to ensure no
overhang or penetration of the landscaped area greater than two and one-half
feet. Landscaping, walls, fences and any other material shall be so located to
prevent its damage and/or destruction by overhanging vehicles.
      (15)   The Zoning Administrator may approve revisions to a landscaping
plan approved by the Town Board or Board of Adjustment in order to accommodate
seasonal planting problems or a lack of plant availability as long as:
         (a)   There is no reduction in the quantity of plant material;
         (b)   There is no significant change in the size or location of plant
materials; and
         (c)   The new plants are of the same general category and have the
same general design characteristics as the materials being replaced.
      (16)   Renovations or expansions to existing civic uses, churches or
similar non-profit organizations where the expansion does not increase
occupancy levels or intensity of use or modify existing parking areas,
vehicular access or circulation patterns, shall be exempt from landscaping
requirements.
   (B)   Plant size.
     Minimum   Minimum Crown Minimum   Minimum       Minimum     Maximum
Type Height at Spread at     Height at Caliper1 at   Spacing (on Spacing (on
     Maturity  Maturity      Planting  Planting (in) center)     center)
     (ft)
           Minimum   Minimum      Minimum   Minimum     Minimum     Maximum
Type       Height at Crown Spread Height at Caliper1 at Spacing (on Spacing (on
           Maturity  at Maturity  Planting  Planting    center)     center)
           (ft)                             (in)
Large Tree >40       >30 feet2    8 feet    2           35 feet     50 feet
Small Tree >15       <30 feet2    5 feet    1.5         15 feet     35 feet
Large      3         24 inches    18 inches 4           24 inches   48 inches
Shrubs3
Small      1         18 inches    8 inches  5           12 inches   24 inches
Shrubs3
NOTES TO TABLE:
1 Caliper shall be measured 6 inches above the ground.
2 The minimum crown spread of trees shall only apply to canopy trees.
3 Shrubs do not include ground covers.
4 Large shrubs shall be a minimum of 3-gallon container size.
5 Small shrubs shall be a minimum 2-gallon container size.
 
   (C)   Existing trees.
      (1)   Except when necessary to provide access to a site or to ensure the
safety and security of people and property, any existing healthy trees that are
eight inches or greater in caliper, located within a public right-of-way or
undeveloped required yard shall be retained unless approved for removal during
site plan review. In addition, every reasonable effort shall be made to protect
and retain existing trees and shrubs not actually lying in planned roadways,
drainageways, building foundation sites and construction activity areas.
      (2)   Existing trees and shrubs shall count towards meeting the
requirements of this section as long as such are:
         (a)   Free from disease or growth problems;
         (b)   Clearly shown on the site plan;
         (c)   Approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to development as
meeting the intent of the landscaping requirements;
         (d)   Are not considered nuisance or noxious plants; and
         (e)   Are adequately protected during grading and development of the
site.
      (3)   Protective measures, as outlined below, shall be taken to minimize
damage to existing trees and other vegetation to be retained.
         (a)   Site plans shall show the location of trees and shrubs to be
retained and the locations of protection fencing.
         (b)   Prior to construction, grading or other land disturbing
activity, protective barriers shall be placed around the root protection area
of all trees and shrubs to be saved. For trees, the root protection area shall
not be less than the drip line.
         (c)   No soil disturbance or compaction, stock piling of soil or other
construction materials, vehicular traffic or storage of heavy equipment are
allowed in the areas designated for protection.
         (d)   Root pruning shall be kept to an absolute minimum.
         (e)   Pruning of existing trees shall be done according to the
National Arborists' Association standards in a manner that preserves the
character of the tree.
         (f)   No ropes, signs, wires, electrical device or other material
shall be secured or fastened around or through a tree or shrub designated for
protection.
         (g)   If a single tree or small group of trees of significant size are
identified for protection, lightning protection measures are recommended to
help ensure their protection during storms.
   (D)   Landscaping installation and maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   To ensure compliance with this article and to encourage required
vegetation to be installed during the appropriate season, a letter of
compliance may be accepted by the town in lieu of installation prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the site. This letter shall be in
the form of an affidavit signed by the property owner and shall:
         (a)   Acknowledge that the owner is aware of any landscaping and/or
screening requirements which apply to the property;
         (b)   Stipulate that he or she will comply with those requirements by
a specific date within the next appropriate planting season, but in no case
more than nine months after the date of the affidavit, unless otherwise
approved by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (c)   Acknowledge that failure to comply with the provisions of this
section within the time frame specified in the letter shall constitute a
violation of this article which shall subject the property owner to any and all
enforcement actions permitted by law.
      (2)   All landscape materials required or committed voluntarily by the
developer, whether used for screening, buffering, open space, streetyards or
other required landscaping areas shall be properly maintained by the property
owner. Maintenance includes all actions necessary to keep landscaping materials
healthy, neat and orderly in appearance and free of litter and debris. Any
landscaping lost or diseased shall be removed and replaced unless, in the
opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the maturity of the remaining vegetation
compensates for the loss of an individual shrub or tree, thereby causing the
intent of the landscape standard to still be met without replacement.
   (E)   Berms. The following standards shall apply to all berms.
      (1)   No structures, including fences, shall be placed on a berm unless
approved by the town as part of the landscaping requirements for a development
site.
      (2)   Berms installed as part of residential developments shall be held
and maintained by a legally constituted homeowners association and shall not be
used as part of any outdoor living space by adjacent property owners within the
development.
      (3)   Berms shall not be used for the display of vehicles or other
merchandise, except that, when approved by the town, the berm and any other
required landscaping area may be used as a display site for landscaping
materials and plants for sale by an adjacent use.
      (4)   If included in the landscape design, berms shall:
         (a)   Have a minimum height of eighteen inches, a minimum crown width
of two feet and a side slope with a width to height ratio of no greater than
three to one (3:1) if less than four feet in height and a width to height ratio
of no greater than four to one (4:1) if more than four feet in height. If berm
slope is greater than three to one (3:1), slopes must be treated with
groundcover or other plant material to eliminate erosion. If the height of the
berm is greater than six feet, the side slopes shall be four to one (4:1).
         (b)   Be designed and constructed with an undulating appearance which
mimics as much as is practicable a natural topographical feature of the site.
         (c)   Be substantially planted and covered with live vegetation. No
berm shall consist entirely of turf grass, ground cover, mulch or similar
material.
         (d)   Be fully installed, planted and stabilized prior to
certification of zoning compliance.
         (e)   Be designed to prevent standing water or to impede the flow of
storm water from adjacent properties.
   (F)   Streetyards.
      (1)   Streetyards shall be required in new non-residential developments
along all arterial and collector streets whenever new development is approved
or an existing use is expanded by more than 20%, except that:
         (a)   Streetyards shall not be required in the TC District or in the
town center area of TND Districts; and
         (b)   Along streets that are scheduled for widening by the town or the
state in the near future which might affect the location of the right-of-way,
the Zoning Administrator may allow the developer to delay all or a portion of
the streetyard requirements. Whenever a delay is allowed, a letter of
compliance pursuant to this section shall be required.
      (2)   Where the location of permanent buildings on an existing site
reduces the area available for a streetyard, streetyard requirements shall be
met to the maximum extent practicable. Where implementation of the streetyard
requirements on an existing site would require the removal of parking spaces,
the Zoning Administrator may approve a reduction of up to 20% of the required
parking spaces in order to make room for required landscaping.
      (3)   Along streets that are well-forested or new streets that are to be
maintained in a forested condition by the developer, the requirements of this
section may be reduced or eliminated upon approval of the Zoning Administrator
to minimize grading and enhance preservation of existing, mature trees.
      (4)   All required streetyards shall be no less than eight feet in width
at any point and average ten feet in width, as measured perpendicularly to the
street, along the entire length of the property.
      (5)   The planting schedule for streetyards shall be as follows:
 
Type        Minimum Number Per 100 Linear Feet
Large trees 2
Small trees 2
1 Fractions generated by applying the minimum number of plants required per
100 linear feet to the actual linear footage of an area shall be rounded up to
the nearest whole number. (For example, a 50-foot area would be required to
have 1 large tree and 1 small tree.)
 
      (6)   Fractions generated by applying the minimum number of plants
required per 100 linear feet to the actual linear footage of an area shall be
rounded up to the nearest whole number. (For example, a 50-foot area would be
required to have one large tree and one small tree.)
      (7)   A combination of two small trees and four small shrubs per 100 feet
may be used in lieu of planting large trees if the streetyard is increased to a
minimum of 12 feet in width.
      (8)   The area between trees and shrubs in a streetyard shall be
completely filled in with perennials, annual flowers ornamental grasses, turf
grasses, a minimum of three inches of landscaping mulch or a combination
thereof.
      (9)   Berms shall be permitted to augment required streetyard plantings
as follows.
         (a)   Shrubs may be reduced to a minimum of 12 inches in height at the
time of planting if the combined height of the berm and the shrubs will be at
least three feet in three years.
         (b)   A minimum of 50% of all required trees and shrubs shall be
planted along the street front portion of the berm.
         (c)   If the berm is at least three feet in height, no shrubs are
required.
   (G)   Street trees.
      (1)   Street trees shall be planted along both sides of all public
streets in new residential developments.
      (2)   Street trees shall be large canopy species and shall be planted at
40 feet on center. At the time of planting, each tree shall be two inches or
greater in diameter measured six feet above ground level and each shall be a
minimum of eight feet in height above grade. Small maturing trees planted a
maximum of 30 feet on center may be used to meet street tree requirements only
where overhead utility lines along existing streets prevent or interfere with
the maturing of canopy trees.
      (3)   The planting area for street trees shall be a minimum of five feet
in width as measured perpendicularly from the street.
      (4)   On any street for which a streetscape plan has been adopted by the
Town Board, the streetscape plan shall control.
      (5)   Along streets that are well-forested or new streets that are to be
maintained in a forested condition by the developer, the requirements of this
section may be reduced or eliminated upon approval of the Zoning Administrator
to minimize grading and enhance preservation of existing, mature trees. Tree
planting requirements may be modified where extreme topography would require
excessive grading to meet the specific standards above.
   (H)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to all new parking areas with
12 or more spaces and all expansions to existing parking areas which add 12 or
more spaces, unless otherwise noted. In an expansion, only the area of
expansion is required to be included in the calculation; however, the
landscaping may be provided anywhere within the parking area.
      (2)   Trees and shrubs shall be planted along all internal driveways as
follows:
 
Type        Minimum Number Per 100 Linear Feet
Large trees 1
Small trees 2
1 Fractions generated by applying the minimum number of plants required per
100 linear feet to the actual linear footage of an area shall be rounded up to
the nearest whole number. (For example, a fifty foot area would be required to
have 1 large tree and 1 small tree.)
 
      (3)   The area between required trees and shrubs shall be completely
filled in with perennials, annual flowers ornamental grasses, turf grasses, a
minimum of three inches of landscaping mulch or a combination thereof.
      (4)   No more than two parking aisles (defined as a travel lane and the
parking located on each side) shall abut. Otherwise, parking aisles shall be
separated from each other by planted medians which may include pedestrian
walkways. No more than 30 parking spaces shall be contained within one parking
aisle (i.e., there must be at least one landscape island on each side of a
parking aisle every 15 parking spaces).
      (5)   At least 5% of the interior of all parking areas where landscaping
is required, excluding access drives, shall be landscaped. There shall be at
least one large tree, two small trees and five large or ten small shrubs for
each 20 parking spaces. Parking lots with fewer than 20 spaces shall be
required to plant at least one large tree, two small trees and five large or
ten small shrubs. Trees shall be spaced such that no parking space is more than
65 feet from the trunk of a canopy tree. Shrubs may be located in end planters
and around the perimeter of the parking area, but not in a required streetyard.
All landscape islands and end planters in parking lots shall be completely
filled-in with low-growing evergreen shrubs or drought resistant turf grasses.
Interior parking landscaping requirements for large trees may be omitted if
streetyard and landscape buffer widths are increased by 50% and the remaining
provisions of this section are met. It is the intent that this provision shall
not apply to large scale parking lots.
      (6)   Whenever parking areas abut streets, an opaque wall or fence a
minimum of three feet in height shall be installed adjacent to or within a
required streetyard or adjacent to a street right-of-way where no streetyard is
required, except that:
         (a)   A continuous hedge may be substituted for the wall or fence in
any District, except in the TC District and the town center area of a TND
District, as long as the hedge is a minimum of 18 inches in height at the time
of planting, has the ability to achieve a height of two feet during its first
full growing season; and
         (b)   A vegetated berm may be substituted for a portion of the wall,
fence or hedge, except in the TC District and the town center area of a TND
District.
      (7)   Optional interior landscaping and design for large parking lots.
The following subsections are intended as an option for large parking lots
containing 300 or more parking spaces where design flexibility is needed to
accommodate the unusually high number of parking spaces required for large
retail and shopping center development due to high vehicle to square foot floor
area ratios. Additional design features are included.
         (a)   In parking lots designed for any single large retail store or
any shopping center containing 300 or more parking spaces, up to four parking
aisles (defined as a travel lane and the parking located on each side) may abut
provided the optional interior landscaping requirements of this section are met
within the parking lot excluding any perimeter, streetyard, internal driveway,
required buffer or other landscape area required by §
8-3.5, Landscaping. The maximum distance between required landscape medians
shall be no greater than 250 feet.
         (b)   No parking space shall be further than 65 feet from the trunk of
a large tree. However, large trees are not required within 75 feet of the
primary building facade or immediately adjacent to a handicap parking space.
         (c)   Tree wells are encouraged along any portion of the building
facade not planned for outdoor display, ingress/egress or loading and
unloading. Tree wells shall have a minimum dimension of eight feet and contain
at least one understory or small decorative tree.
         (d)   Adequate corrals for shopping carts and other similar customer
merchandise carts shall be provided throughout all large parking lots.
         (e)   At least one distinctive pedestrian crosswalk shall be provided
between the large parking lot and each main entrance to a large retail store or
shopping center. A distinctive pedestrian crosswalk may consist of a raised
speed table, speed bumps, textured paving surface or other low maintenance
surface materials such as pavers, bricks or scored concrete installed in the
drive lane located between the main entrances to the store and the parking lot.
A distinctive crosswalk will be designed to enhance pedestrian safety and
comfort as well as the attractiveness of the crosswalk. Traffic calming devices
shall be required between the store front and the parking lot.
   (I)   Landscape buffers. The purpose of a landscape buffer is to help
provide transition between different types of land uses, to break up or soften
the appearance of paved surfaces and to provide the shade and greenery
necessary to create a livable urban environment. Buffers shall be required as
follows:
      (1)   Buffers shall be required whenever new development is approved or
an existing use is expanded by more than 20%, except that:
         (a)   Buffers shall not be required in the TC or TND District, except
to buffer lots zoned TC or TND from uses in adjacent Districts as outlined in
this section;
         (b)   Planting requirements in buffer areas may be altered on a case-
by-case basis by the Zoning Administrator in locations where the required
buffer is wholly or partially within an existing easement;
         (c)   Along areas that are scheduled for easement or right-of-way
acquisition or expansion by the town or the state in the near future, the
Zoning Administrator may allow a postponement of all or a portion of the buffer
planting. Whenever postponement is allowed, a letter of compliance pursuant to
this section shall be required; and
         (d)   Buffers shall only be required for properties in an industrial
park, business park or commercial center when those properties abut the
exterior boundary of the development.
      (2)   There shall be four types of landscape buffers used within the
town's jurisdiction, as described below.
         (a)   Type A landscape buffer. A high density screen intended to
substantially block visual contact between adjacent uses and create spatial
separation.
         (b)   Type B landscape buffer. A medium density screen intended to
substantially block visual contact between uses and create spatial separation.
         (c)   Type C landscape buffer. A low density screen intended to
partially block visual contact between uses and create spatial separation.
         (d)   Type D landscape buffer. A peripheral planting strip intended to
separate uses, provide vegetation in densely-developed areas and enhance the
appearance of individual properties.
      (3)   The type of landscape buffer required shall be determined by
comparing the land use code for the proposed development to the land use code
for adjacent uses. Each use permitted within the town's jurisdiction has been
assigned a land use code to be used for this purpose which is shown in the
Table of Uses (see §
8-3.3). Once the land use code has been determined, the following table shall
guide landscape buffer requirements:
 
                                 Land Use Code for Adjacent Uses
                                 1  2  3  4  5
                               1 NA NA NA NA NA
Land Use Code for Proposed Use 2 C  D  D  D  D
                               3 C  C  D  D  D
                               4 B  C  C  D  D
                               5 A  B  C  C  D
 
      (4)   Buffer details.
         (a)   The Type A landscape buffer shall average 20 feet in width, but
not be less than ten feet in width at any point and shall contain:
            1.   Two large trees per 100 linear feet;
            2.   Six small trees per 100 linear feet; and
            3.   Ten large or 20 small shrubs or combination of large and small
shrubs at the rate of two small shrubs to one large shrub to equal ten large
shrubs per 100 linear feet.
         (b)   The Type B landscape buffer shall average 15 feet in width, but
shall not be less than ten feet in width at any point and shall contain:
            1.   Two large trees per 100 linear feet;
            2.   Four small trees per 100 linear feet; and
            3.   Seven large shrubs or 15 small shrubs or combination of large
and small shrubs at the rate of two small shrubs to one large shrub to equal
seven large shrubs per 100 linear feet.
         (c)   The Type C landscape buffer shall average12 feet in width, but
shall not be less than eight feet in width at any point and shall contain:
            1.   One large tree per 100 linear feet;
            2.   Three small trees per 100 linear feet; and
            3.   Five large shrubs or ten small shrubs or combination of large
and small shrubs at the rate of two small shrubs to one large shrub to equal
five large shrubs per 100 linear feet.
         (d)   The Type D landscape buffer shall average eight feet in width,
but shall not be less than five feet in width at any point and shall contain:
            1.   One large tree per 100 linear feet; and
            2.   Two small trees per 100 linear feet.
      (5)   Buffer width shall be measured perpendicularly to the property
line.
      (6)   Fractions. Fractions generated by applying the minimum number of
plants required per 100 linear feet to the actual linear footage of an area
shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number. (For example, a 50-foot Type C
buffer area would be required to have one large tree and two small trees.)
      (7)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Fences and walls of uniform design and material shall be allowed
to replace required shrubbery in any landscape buffer when, in the opinion of
the Zoning Administrator, the fence or wall will achieve the same effect as the
shrubbery and will contribute positively to the overall design of the property.
         (b)   Buffer width requirements may be reduced by 50%, but in no case
less than ten feet in width, when a six foot continuous opaque fence, wall or
berm is approved and constructed within the landscape buffer. A minimum of a
six-foot tall continuous evergreen hedge shall be installed on the exterior
side of the fence. The screening hedge shall consist of large evergreen shrubs
planted not more than seven feet on center. Shrubs shall be at least three feet
in height and five-gallon container size at planting.
         (c)   In the event unusual topography or elevation of a development
site, the size of the parcel to be developed, the soil or sub-surface condition
of the site would make strict adherence to the requirements of this part serve
no meaningful purpose or would make it physically impossible to install and
maintain the required buffer plantings, the Zoning Administrator may alter the
requirements of this part as long as the existing features of the development
site comply with the spirit and intent herein. Such an alteration may occur
only at the request of the property owner who shall submit a plan to the Zoning
Administrator showing existing site features that would buffer or screen the
proposed use and any additional buffer materials the property owner will plant
or construct to buffer the proposed use.
   (J)   Alternative landscape design. In order to encourage creativity in
landscape design, to more effectively create a buffer or screen, to address
site issues such as topography or geological features or to allow for more
efficient irrigation or water use practices, the Town Board of Adjustment may
approve an alternative landscape design plan if it finds that the intent and
spirit of §
8-3.5.1, Landscaping, is met. The requirements of §
8-3.9.9(B), Waiver of Architectural and Site Design Requirements, Major Waiver,
shall be followed.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.5.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.5.2 Fences and Walls.
   (A)   General. The following standards shall apply to all fences and walls
in all zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Fences and walls shall be maintained in good order.
      (2)   Fences shall not contain advertising, signs, logos or other
lettering unless expressly permitted by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Where a fence or wall is used as part of required screening, all
required vegetation shall be planted on the exterior side of the fence or wall
(exterior to the lot).
      (4)   Fences and walls shall be installed and maintained so as not to
interfere with the sight distance requirements of this article or the sight
distance needs of drivers in parking areas and at entrance and exit locations.
   (B)   Material and design. The following standards shall apply to all fences
and walls in all zoning districts, unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   Chain link and other wire material fences shall not be permitted in
a front setback along any street except in the GI and SP Districts except that
such may be placed on the inside of a split rail or other wooden fence or is
screened by vegetation. This standard shall not apply to publicly owned tennis
courts and ballfields.
      (2)   Security walls and fences shall be accompanied by vertical
landscaping to screen the wall or fence from view except for uses located
within the GI and SP Districts where the uses do not abut a residential use or
residentially zoned lot.
      (3)   Razor wire, concertina wire and similar high security fencing
material shall not be used in any area unless substantially screened from
public view and shall only be permitted in the CB, GI and SP Districts.
      (4)   Barbed wire shall be permitted in the OSR District where it is
accessory to a permitted agricultural use and in the CB, GI and SP Districts.
      (5)   Electric fencing shall only be permitted in the OSR District where
it is accessory to a permitted agricultural use.
      (6)   Walls and fences used for landscaping or screening shall be
constructed of masonry, stone, wood, vinyl or a material similar in composition
and appearance as the principal building. The walls and fences shall be opaque
or shall be of a design approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   Fences and walls within a development shall be compatible in design
and material.
      (8)   Unfinished concrete block walls shall not be permitted within any
required yard.
   (C)   Height. The following height limitations shall apply to all fences and
walls unless otherwise required by this article.
      (1)   In any Residential or Mixed Use District, the maximum height of
fences and walls shall be four feet above grade when located within a required
yard adjacent to a public street and a maximum of six feet when located within
any required side or rear yard not located adjacent to a public street.
      (2)   In the HC and CB Districts, the maximum height of fences and walls
shall be four feet above grade when located within a required yard adjacent to
a public street and a maximum of six feet when located within any required side
or rear yard not located adjacent to a public street.
      (3)   In the SP and GI Districts, the maximum height of fences and walls
shall be six feet above grade when located within a required yard adjacent to a
public street and a maximum of eight feet when located within any required side
or rear yard not located adjacent to a public street. However, screening walls
may be constructed to a height which effectively screens mechanical equipment,
loading docks and similar service equipment from public and private streets and
property lines. Screening walls shall be constructed to architecturally match
the principal building requiring service and utility equipment. Any such wall
shall maintain a setback from the public right-of-way or property line equal to
the height of the wall. Vertical landscaping shall be installed between the
public street or property line and the wall to reach a mature height of at
least 75% of the height of the screening wall.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.5.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.5.3 Open Space.
   (A)   General. In order to develop a system of quality open spaces and
recreation areas throughout the town's jurisdiction, the following standards
shall apply to all developments and all open space and recreation areas in all
zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
      (1)   In developments with 20 or more residential units, open space shall
account for a minimum of 15% of the total land area of the site. Open space
shall include recreational areas, wooded areas and environmental open space.
Environmental open space is defined as any pervious area set aside for the
protection, enhancement or creation of water quality buffers, wildlife habitat,
view corridors, flood hazard mitigation or similar environmental features and
may or may not include public access.
      (2)   Public open space and recreation areas, except environmental open
space, shall have direct access from public streets.
      (3)   Public open space and recreation areas, except environmental open
space, shall be visible and easily accessible.
      (4)   Public open space and recreation areas, except environmental open
space, shall have multiple points of entry.
      (5)   All open space and recreation areas, except environmental open
space, shall be well buffered from moving vehicles.
      (6)   The land used for required open space and recreation areas, except
environmental open space, shall have an average slope of 5% or less with no
portion of the land exceeding a 15% slope.
      (7)   Required open space and recreation areas may be publicly or
privately owned. The planning, construction and maintenance of privately owned
facilities shall adhere to the following:
         (a)   Private open space intended to count towards the open space
requirements of this section shall be held and maintained by a legally
constituted homeowner's association. Public open space may be held by any unit
of government or private non-profit organization created for such purposes that
has been approved by the Town Board.
         (b)   High maintenance cost facilities such as swimming pools shall
not be counted in determining compliance with the minimum open space and
recreation area requirements of this chapter. Bridges along pedestrian and
bicycle paths and similar high cost facilities shall not be permitted as an
integral part of any required open space or recreational area unless no other
feasible alternative exists.
         (c)   Each phase of a phased development shall meet the minimum
requirements for open space and recreational areas. All plans for the
developments shall demonstrate compliance for each phase. No certificates of
occupancy shall be issued until all the required facilities have been installed
by the developer and approved by the town.
   (B)   Alternative open space.
      (1)   As an alternative to incorporating required open space on a
development site, the developer has the option of:
         (a)   Requesting that the town permit the purchase of land lying
within a planned public park or open space system within or immediately
adjacent to the town's zoning jurisdiction and its dedication to the
appropriate public authority; or
         (b)   Requesting that the town accept fees in lieu of land dedication
for the purpose of providing public open space. The requests shall be heard and
decided by the Town Board prior to subdivision or site plan approval.
      (2)   Any request for alternative open space shall be accompanied by the
following information:
         (a)   The amount of land required for open space dedication under this
chapter.
         (b)   Detailed information about land proposed for purchase and public
dedication including all of the following:
            1.   The exact location (either a tax identification number or a
metes and bounds description), size and current assessed and appraised value of
land proposed for purchase and public dedication;
            2.   The intended recipient of the dedication of land and evidence
that the recipient (if other than the town) approves of the dedication; and
            3.   The proposed timing of the purchase and dedication.
         (c)   If fees in lieu are proposed, the amount of fees offered.
         (d)   An alternative plan for providing on-site open space as required
by this chapter.
      (3)   In considering a request for alternative open space, the Town Board
may:
         (a)   Approve the request without modification;
         (b)   Approve the request with modifications or conditions agreed to
by the developer;
         (c)   Approve only a portion of the request, requiring a portion of
the required open space to be included on the site of the proposed development;
or
         (d)   Deny the request.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.5.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6 SIGNS.
§ 8-3.6.1 Introduction.
   (A)   General. Signs are one of the most noticeable visual elements along
every city and county's commercial streets and highways. Signs communicate what
a particular establishment offers. They also communicate something about the
quality of the businesses and the image of the community in general. Together
with other visual elements in the town's environment, signs can play a major
role in how people perceive the town's image. Well-designed signs that
communicate their message clearly, without attempting to compete for attention
with the road, will help create a more pleasing visual environment along the
town's streets. The goal of this article is to attain a balance between proper
levels of safety and to enhance the town's streetscapes with the addition of
eye-catching visual design that helps identify businesses and their services.
   (B)   Intent. To ensure that signage is designed and placed to complement
the character of the town. To minimize the distractions and obstructions that
contributes to traffic hazards and endangers public safety. To protect existing
development and promote high standards of quality in new development by
requiring appropriately designed, placed and sized signage. To provide an
effective guide for communicating identification through signage while
preventing signs from dominating the visual appearance of the areas in which
they are located. The following standards shall apply to all signs in all
zoning districts unless otherwise noted.
   (C)   Applicability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct, enlarge, modify, move or replace
any sign or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a zoning permit
for the sign from the town.
      (2)   Not withstanding the above, changing or replacing the permanent
copy on an existing lawful sign shall not require a permit, provided the copy
change does not change the nature of the sign so as to render it in violation
of this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.2 Sign Permit Required.
   Except as specifically excluded from the provisions of this article, it
shall be unlawful for any person to post, display, substantially change or
erect a sign within the town zoning jurisdiction without first having obtained
a sign permit. For purposes of this article, application for a sign permit and
a building permit may be made simultaneously.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.3 Building Permit Required.
   For any monument sign or any sign connected to electrical power, it shall be
a violation of this article to post, display, substantially change or erect a
sign in the town without first having obtained a building permit. The applicant
for a building permit shall submit application materials as specified in the
sign application package, including a sketch or print drawn to scale showing
pertinent information such as wind loads and display materials in accordance
with the Standard Building Code.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.4 Sign Permit Fees.
   (A)   No sign permit shall be issued until the appropriate application has
been filed and fees have been paid.
   (B)   Please refer to county development services for all applicable fees.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.5 Sign Permit Expiration Date.
   A sign permit shall become null and void if the sign for which the permit
was issued has not been completed within 12 months after the date of issuance.
No refunds will be made for a permit after the permit is issued. If later, an
individual desires to erect a sign at the same location, a new application for
the sign must be processed and another fee paid in accordance with the fee
schedule applicable at such time.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.6 General Sign Design Guidelines.
   The following provisions shall apply to all signs.
   (A)   Construction standards.
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed and installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be constructed of materials and printed
on by inks capable of withstanding normal weather conditions.
      (3)   All signs, except for banners, flags, temporary signs and window
signs conforming in all respects with the requirements of this article shall be
constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the
ground, a building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall,
frame or structure.
   (B)   Obstructions prohibited. No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct the
clear sight triangle at a street intersection nor shall any sign obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving an off-street parking area.
   (C)   Relation to other building elements.
      (1)   Signs shall relate in their placement and size to other building
elements without obscuring building elements such as windows, cornices or
decorative details, except that signs may be placed on the inside of windows.
      (2)   Sign material, style and color shall compliment the building facade
in terms of design, scale, color and materials.
      (3)   Individual shop signs in a single storefront shall relate to each
other in terms of design, size, color, placement on the building and lettering
style.
      (4)   Signs placed on the inside of window areas shall conceal no more
than 25% of the area of the window on which the signs are located.
   (D)   Sign height computation. Sign height shall be computed as the lower
of:
      (1)   Existing grade prior to construction; or
      (2)   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the
sign. The calculation of the height of any sign placed upon a berm or mound
shall include the height of the berm or mound.
   (E)   Sign area computation. The area of a sign face (which is also the sign
area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face) shall be computed by
means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination
thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not
including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when
the fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly
incidental to the display itself.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1377.jpg]
 
   (F)   Sign area computation for multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with multiple faces shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign
faces visible from any one point. When a sign is composed of two or more sign
faces only one of which can be viewed from any one point and when the sign
faces are part of the same sign structure, the sign area shall be computed by
the measurement of one of the faces.
   (G)   Maintenance of signs. All signs shall be maintained in good structural
and aesthetic condition. Deficiencies such as chipped paint, broken plastic,
missing letters and exposed light bulbs shall be evidence of a lack of
maintenance.
   (H)   Forfeiture of illegal signs placed on or over public property. Any
sign installed or placed on or over public property, except in conformance with
the requirements of this article, shall be forfeited to the public and be
subject to confiscation and disposal. In addition to other remedies provided by
this article and the Town Code of Ordinances, the town shall have the right to
recover from the sign owner and/or installer the full costs of removal and
disposal of the sign.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.7 Prohibited Signs.
   Notwithstanding §
8-3.6.15 and in addition thereto, the following signs, both permanent and
temporary, are prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Signs extending into the public right-of-way other than those
expressly permitted by this article or otherwise approved by the Town Manager,
if placed along public streets;
   (B)   Roof signs;
   (C)   Portable signs as defined in this article (for example: trailer signs,
balloon signs and the like);
   (D)   Flashing, fluttering, swinging, wind-activated or rotating signs, not
to include non-flashing time and/or temperature signs;
   (E)   Any sign which obstructs the view of motorists, pedestrians or
cyclists using any street, sidewalk, bike path or driveway or which obstructs
the approach to any street intersection or railroad crossing or which
interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic sign, device or signal;
   (F)   Illuminated or highly reflective signs which hamper the vision of
motorists or cyclists;
   (G)   Any sign which resembles traffic signals, traffic signs or emergency
vehicle lights and any other sign not erected by a public authority which may
be erroneously construed as governmental signs or emergency warning signs;
   (H)   Beacons, pennants and strings of lights not permanently mounted to a
rigid background, except those permitted as temporary signs;
   (I)   Any sign which interferes with free passage from or obstructs any fire
escape, downspout, window, door, stairway, ladder or opening intended as a
means of ingress or egress or providing light or air except for permitted
window signs;
   (J)   Any sign placed on any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge,
tree or other structure or surface located on, over or across any public street
right-of-way or property unless expressly authorized by this article or the
Town Manager;
   (K)   Off-premises signs advertising adult establishments;
   (L)   Off-premises signs on parcels of land which are zoned residential,
used primarily for residential purposes or which do not include an active
permitted use as established by this article;
   (M)   Inflatable devices or balloons. Any air- or gas-filled balloons or
other similar devices and permanent signs made of paper, cloth or other non-
durable materials, except as specifically approved by special permit in
accordance with this article;
   (N)   Any off-premise directional, directory or kiosk sign that displays
direction to business, uses or attractions placed within the public right-of-
way is prohibited unless the sign is erected and maintained by the town, State
of North Carolina or an agent of such;
   (O)   High intensity search lights;
   (P)   Pole signs;
   (Q)   Any object not defined in this article as a legitimate sign displayed
in a manner which is intended to attract attention to a site, product or event;
   (R)   Signs attached to trees;
   (S)   Outdoor neon signs (indoor window signs that are neon are allowed, but
must adhere to all window sign regulations);
   (T)   Backlit, internally illuminated awnings are prohibited;
   (U)   Any sign made of temporary materials (paper, cardboard and the like)
or designed to advertise a temporary event (grand opening, sales, going out of
business, new subdivisions and the like.) That is, freestanding or otherwise
placed in the right-of-way or on another property owner's property;
   (V)   Any sign not expressly permitted by this article; and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1379.jpg]
 
Signs like the one above are strictly prohibited. These signs are temporary
in nature, yet litter the landscape and in some cases can be dangerous to
drivers.
   (W)   Parking of advertising vehicles. No business shall park any vehicle or
trailer on a public right-of-way or public property or on private property so
as to be visible from a public right-of-way, which has attached thereto or
located thereon, any sign or advertising device for the basic purpose of
providing advertisement of products or directing people to a business or
activity located on the same premises or any other premise. This is not
intended to prohibit any form of vehicular signage such as a sign attached to a
bus or lettering on a motor vehicle. Delivery vehicles and business vehicles
should be parked in the side or rear of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1381.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.7) (Updated 2009) (Amended 12-2-2014)
§ 8-3.6.8 Sign Placement.
   The following provisions shall apply to the placement of all signs in all
Districts.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   Signs must be located entirely on private property, unless
otherwise permitted by this article.
      (2)   No sign, including its projections, may extend into or over an
existing public right-of-way or within the clear sight triangle, unless
expressly permitted by this article.
      (3)   Signs should be designed to relate to the architectural features of
the building on which they are located and create visual continuity with other
storefronts on the same or adjacent buildings.
      (4)   Signs should be placed at or near the public entrance to a building
or main parking area to indicate the most direct access to the business.
      (5)   Signs should be placed consistent with the proportions of the
building's facade. For example, a particular sign may fit well on an upper,
more basic wall, but would overpower and obstruct the finer detail of a lower
storefront area. A sign appropriate near the building's entry may look tiny and
out of place above the ground level.
      (6)   Signs should not be located so that they cover or interrupt the
architectural details or ornamentation of a building's facade.
      (7)   Signs should not project above the edge of the rooflines and should
not obstruct windows and/or doorways.
      (8)   The location and extent of signs and advertising should not
obstruct scenic views.
   (B)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall be located on private property unless
expressly permitted by this article to be posted on public property.
      (2)   All temporary signs shall be anchored, attached or otherwise
affixed to a structure or support so that the sign cannot be easily dislodged
by strong winds or heavy rains.
   (C)   Specific sign placement guidelines.
      (1)   Changeable copy and electronic message boards may be used as wall
signs if deemed appropriate by the Town Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Signs on awnings are limited to ground floor and second floor uses
only.
      (3)   Directory Signs should be posted at corners of (or along) interior
driveways, sidewalks and parking lots and on exterior walls only.
      (4)   Suspended signs must be placed directly in front of store entrance.
      (5)   Wall mounted signs shall not extend above the eave or parapet of
any building.
      (6)   A wall sign should be located where the architectural features or
details of the building suggest a location, size or shape for the sign. The
best location for a wall sign is generally a band or blank area between the
first and second floors of a building.
      (7)   Window signs should be primarily individual letters placed on the
interior surface of the window and intended to be viewed from outside.
      (8)   All parts of freestanding signs must be set back a minimum of five
feet from the property line or road/street right-of-way.
      (9)   No freestanding sign shall be located closer than 15 feet from
another structure on the same zoning lot.
      (10)   Freestanding signs for primary advertisement shall be limited to
monument or ground signs.
      (11)   The base of every freestanding sign shall be landscaped with plant
materials, including, but not limited to ground covers, perennials and shrubs.
The size of the planted landscaped area shall be determined by multiplying the
height of the sign by the width of the sign divided by two, but in no case
shall the planted area be less than 50 square feet.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.9 Sign Materials.
   (A)   Sign materials should be selected with consideration for the
architectural design of the building's facade. Sign materials should complement
the materials on the facade and should contribute to the legibility of the
sign.
   (B)   Sign materials should be very durable. Paper and cloth signs are not
suitable for outside because they deteriorate quickly. When wood is used, it
should be properly sealed to keep moisture from soaking into the wood and
causing the sign's lettering to deteriorate.
   (C)   The following sign materials are encouraged for the town:
      (1)   Wood (carved, sandblasted, etched, properly sealed and painted or
stained);
      (2)   Metal (formed, etched, cast, engraved and properly primed and
painted or factory coated to protect against erosion);
      (3)   Masonry (brick, concrete, stucco and the like);
      (4)   Fiberglass; and
      (5)   Plastic.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.9) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.10 Sign Illumination.
   (A)   Neon, argon and similar lighting fixtures shall not be used anywhere
on the exterior of a building; however, the signs if non-flashing and non-
moving may be mounted on the inside of store windows.
   (B)   Signs shall only be lighted with indirect light sources (e.g.,
backlighting); knockout signs are encouraged
   (C)   All illuminated signs shall be installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the North Carolina State Electrical Code and all
detached signs shall be illuminated by an underground electrical source.
   (D)   If the sign can be illuminated by an indirect source of light, this is
usually the best arrangement because the sign will appear to be better
integrated with the building's architecture. Light fixtures supported in front
of the sign cast light on the sign and generally a portion of the building as
well. Indirect lighting emphasizes the continuity of the building's surface and
signs become an integral part of the facade. Conversely, internally illuminated
cabinet signs where only the sign face is illuminated tend to stand out and not
appear integrated with the building's facade.
   (E)   Individually illuminated letters, either internally illuminated or
back-lighted solid letters (reverse channel), are a preferred alternative to
internally illuminated plastic-faced cabinet signs. Signs comprised of
individual letters will be better integrated with the building because they use
the building's facade as their background.
   (F)   If internally illuminated cabinet signs are used, their sign panels
should be opaque so that when illuminated only the lettering, not the
background, is illuminated. The background or field should have a non-gloss,
non-reflective finish.
   (G)   Electrical transformer boxes and raceways should be concealed from
public view. If a raceway cannot be mounted internally behind the finished
exterior wall, the exposed metal surfaces of the raceway should be finished to
match the background wall or integrated into the overall design of the sign.
   (H)   If raceways are necessary, they should be as thin and narrow as
possible and should never extend in width or height beyond the area of the
sign's lettering or graphics.
   (I)   All exposed conduit and junction boxes should be appropriately
concealed from public view.
   (J)   Use of energy-efficient, high intensity discharge lamps are
encouraged.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.10) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11 Design Guidelines for Specific Sign Types.
   (A)   Permanent signs permitted without a permit. Notwithstanding §
8-3.6.11 and in addition thereto, the following permanent signs shall be
permitted without a zoning permit:
      (1)   Off-premises public sign kiosks or directory signs that display a
directory of businesses, uses or attractions may be placed within the public
right-of-way; provided that, the sign kiosk or directory sign is erected and
maintained by the town or state or an agent of such;
      (2)   Historical markers, civic signs, regulatory signs, public interest
signs and warning signs erected and maintained by the town or state or an agent
of such;
      (3)   Incidental signs (§
8-3.6.11.6);
      (4)   Flags on permanent poles (Height restriction, §
8-3.6.11.5);
      (5)   Any sign not legible or easily noticeable from public property or a
public right-of-way and obviously not intended to attract the attention of the
public;
      (6)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
      (7)   Traffic control signs on private property, the face of which meet
Department of Transportation standards and which contain no commercial message
of any kind; and
      (8)   On-premise directional signs that navigate customers through
parking area, sidewalk networks and building campuses. Signs may not exceed
four feet in height or six square feet in area, unless the sign is a monument
sign in which case it shall not exceed nine square feet in sign area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1383.jpg]
By keeping Directional Signs Short and Clear, the message is received and
unnecessary signs do not clutter the landscape.
Arrows are usually always necessary to point the recipient in the right
direction.
   (B)   Permanent signs requiring a permit. Notwithstanding §
8-3.6.15 and in addition thereto, the following permanent signs shall be
permitted upon the issuance of a valid zoning permit.
      (1)   Any sign not expressly listed as permitted without a permit shall
require the issuance of a valid zoning permit prior to installation. Refer to
§§
8-3.6.11.1 through
8-3.6.11.13.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1385.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11) (Updated 2009) (Amended 1-8-2013)
§ 8-3.6.11.1 Canopy Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Neighborhood Center;
      (2)   Town Center;
      (3)   Highway Commercial;
      (4)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (5)   Campus Institutional;
      (6)   Campus Business;
      (7)   Special Purpose; and
      (8)   General Industrial.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: not applicable.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted:
      (1)   Maximum of one for each side of the building facing the public
right-of-way.
      (2)   If umbrellas are present in an outdoor area, an additional two
signs per umbrella are allowed.
   (E)   Sign area requirements:
      (1)   All signs, logos, emblems or otherwise shall not exceed 10% of
canopy or awning altogether and are only allowed in locations facing the public
right-of-way.
      (2)   Two signs together shall not exceed 10% of umbrella's overall area.
In the picture below, the restaurant used an umbrella to place additional
smaller signs in a convenient outside location.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1387.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1389.jpg]
The canopy for this restaurant is appropriate because the lettering is located
in the correct place and takes up the correct amount of space.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1391.jpg]
The canopies for this restaurant would be inappropriate in the Town of
Mocksville because there is more than the allowed amount of signs.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Letter color should be compatible with the awning and the building
color scheme.
      (2)   The shape, design and color of the awnings must be carefully
designed to coordinate with and not dominate, the architectural style of the
building. Where multiple awnings are used on the building, the design and color
of the sign awnings should be consistent with all other awnings.
      (3)   Backlit, internally illuminated awnings are prohibited.
      (4)   Only permanent signs that are an integral part of the canopy or
awning should be used. To avoid having to replace awnings or paint out previous
tenant signs when a new tenant moves in, the use of replaceable valances should
be considered.
      (5)   Awning signs should be applied directly on the awning. The use of
adhesive or press lettering is strongly discouraged.
      (6)   Gas canopies. Signs shall be allowed on the canopy of a gas station
at one per street front or development entrance. Signage on the canopy shall
not exceed 10% of the overall area and may include logos, gas prices or any
other identifying emblem.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.1) (Updated 2009) (Amended 7-2-2013)
§ 8-3.6.11.2 Contiguous Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Neighborhood Center;
      (2)   Town Center;
      (3)   Highway Commercial;
      (4)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (5)   Campus Institutional;
      (6)   Campus Business;
      (7)   Special Purpose; and
      (8)   General Industrial.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: not applicable.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one per street front or
development entrance in the Neighborhood Center, Town Center, Highway
Commercial, Traditional Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional, Campus
Business, General Industrial and Special Purpose Districts.
   (E)   Sign area requirements:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 25% of the wall area of the facade on which it is
located.
Projecting Signs cannot extend more than one-third of the width of the sidewalk
in front of it.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1393.jpg]
 
      (2)   Projecting signs cannot extend more than one-third of the width of
the sidewalk in front of it.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Wall signs should not project from the surface upon which they are
attached more than that required for construction purposes and in no case more
than six inches.
      (2)   Wall signs and "ghost" signs painted directly on a structure may be
appropriate in some cases. While generally not appropriate on historic
structures (unless being renovated on an existing building), these types of
signs often lend an air of age and authenticity.
      (3)   New wall signs for individual businesses in a shopping center
should be placed consistent with the location of signs for other businesses in
the center. This will establish visual continuity among storefronts and create
a unified appearance for the center.
      (4)   For new and remodeled shopping centers, a comprehensive sign
program for all signs in the center should be developed. The use of small,
pedestrian-oriented signs is strongly encouraged.
      (5)   Projecting signs should be used for ground floor uses only. On a
multi-storied building, the sign should be suspended between the bottom of the
second story windowsills and the top of the doors or windows of the first
story. On a one-story building, the top of the sign should be in line with the
lowest point of the roof.
      (6)   The scale of projecting signs should not detract from the
architectural character of the building.
      (7)   Projecting signs should be hung at a 90-degree angle from the face
of the building.
This is an appropriate use of a Projecting Sign. The sign is attached using a
discreet iron bracket; the sign is the correct size and states only the name of
the business located there.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1395.jpg]
 
      (8)   Sign supports and brackets should be compatible with the design and
scale of the sign and the architectural design of the building. Decorative iron
and wood brackets are encouraged.
      (9)   Internal illumination of projecting signs is strongly discouraged.
      (10)   Signs, which advertise the occupant business through the use of
graphic or crafted symbols, such as shoes, keys, glasses or books, are
encouraged. Figurative signs may be incorporated into any of the allowable sign
types identified above.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.3 Directory Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Neighborhood Center;
      (2)   Town Center;
      (3)   Highway Commercial;
      (4)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (5)   Campus Institutional;
      (6)   Campus Business;
      (7)   Special Purpose;
      (8)   General Industrial; and
      (9)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of four feet in the Neighborhood Center District.
      (2)   Maximum of six feet in the Campus Institutional, Campus Business,
Special Purpose, General Industrial and Floodplain Districts.
      (3)   Maximum of eight feet in the Town Center, Highway Commercial,
Traditional Neighborhood Development Districts.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted:
      (1)   Maximum of one in the Neighborhood Center, Town Center, Traditional
Neighborhood Development, Special Purpose and Floodplain Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of two in the Highway Commercial, Campus Institutional,
Campus Business and General Industrial Districts.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: maximum of 24 square feet.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Signs should include some form of identification (logo, name and
the like), arrow and directions only.
      (2)   Keep lettering clear, simple and concise.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.4 Flag Signs/Pennant Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: no, except in the Floodplain District.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose;
      (11)   General Industrial; and
      (12)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: shall not exceed twice the maximum building
height permitted or 40 feet, whichever is less.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of four.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: not applicable.
Flags can appear in the form of a regular flag flown with an American and/or
State flag (below), or they can appear in a banner form (right).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1397.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.5 Incidental Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: no.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose;
      (11)   General Industrial; and
      (12)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: maximum of two feet.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: not applicable.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: maximum of two square feet.
   (F)   Additional requirements: not applicable.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.6 Identification Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose;
      (11)   General Industrial; and
      (12)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: maximum of two feet for freestanding
identification signs.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of two.
   (E)   Sign area requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of two square feet in the Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center and
Traditional Neighborhood Development Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of four square feet in the Highway Commercial, Campus
Institutional, Campus Business, Special Purpose, General Industrial and
Floodplain Districts.
   (F)   Additional requirements: not applicable.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.7 Kiosk Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Neighborhood Center;
      (2)   Town Center;
      (3)   Highway Commercial;
      (4)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (5)   Campus Institutional;
      (6)   Campus Business;
      (7)   Special Purpose;
      (8)   General Industrial; and
      (9)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of six feet in the Neighborhood Center, Campus
Institutional, Campus Business, Special Purpose, General Industrial and
Floodplain Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of eight feet in the Town Center, Highway Commercial and
Traditional Neighborhood Development Districts.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: maximum of 24 square feet.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Kiosk signs must be placed in an on-premises and centrally located
area.
      (2)   Signs should state the names and locations of businesses only.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.7) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.8 Marquee Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Town Center; and
      (2)   Highway Commercial.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: shall not extend above or below marquee
surface.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: shall not exceed 75% of the size of the
marquee.
   (F)   Additional requirements: not applicable.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.9 Monument Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose;
      (11)   General Industrial; and
      (12)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of four feet in the Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center,
Traditional Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional, Campus Business,
Special Purpose, General Industrial and Floodplain Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of eight feet in the Highway Commercial District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1399.jpg]
 
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one per street front or
development entrance.
   (E)   Sign area requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of 24 square feet in the Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center and
Floodplain Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of 32 square feet in the Highway Commercial, Traditional
Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional, Campus Business, Special
Purpose and General Industrial Districts.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Monument signs may be internally illuminated, however, the sign
copy should be the only portion of the sign face that is illuminated. The sign
background or field should be opaque with a non-gloss, non-reflective finish.
Signs with individual back-lit letters or stenciled panels with three
dimensional push-through graphics are encouraged.
      (2)   The sign area and height of the sign should be in proportion to the
site and surrounding buildings. Signs should not be overly large so as to be a
dominant feature of the site.
      (3)   Monument signs should be placed perpendicular to the street.
Monument Signs should have a masonry base and, if desired, sides. This Monument
Sign is a good example of using the proper materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1401.jpg]
 
      (4)   Monument signs should be placed so that sight lines at entry
driveways and circulation aisles are not blocked.
      (5)   Monument signs should be designed to create visual interest and
compliment their surroundings. Monument signs should incorporate architectural
elements, details and articulation as follows:
         (a)   Provide architectural elements on the sides and top to frame the
sign pane(s). Use columns, pilaster, cornices and similar details to provide
design interest; and
         (b)   Incorporate materials and colors into the sign support
structures to match or be compatible with materials and colors of the
development the sign serves so it does not appear out of scale with its
adjacent building(s).
      (6)   Monument signs shall incorporate landscaping at their base.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1403.jpg]
 
      (7)   Landscaping around monument signs should be designed to ensure the
long-term readability of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1405.jpg]
 
The above photo shows an appropriate example of proper landscaping around and
below a Monument Sign. The plants of choice here are low-lying and do not block
the lettering of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1407.jpg]
 
The above photo shows an inappropriate example of landscaping around a Monument
Sign. The plants of choice used here have grown taller than the lettering of
the sign and it is now hard to see.
      (8)   (a)   Changeable copy and electronic message boards are allowed in
non- residential districts, for non-residential uses and planned developments
and for places of worship and institutional uses in any district.
         (b)   Schools and churches are permitted one freestanding sign
containing a maximum display area 24 square feet, and one changeable copy
electronic message sign, which does not exceed 24 square feet in display area,
provided that total sign height does not exceed eight feet above ground level;
Proper Example of a Changeable Copy sign used by a popular restaurant to
display a new product.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1409.jpg]
 
Changeable Copy signs placed on a wall are inappropriate unless the Town of
Mocksville deems it appropriate.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1411.jpg]
 
   (G)   Additional requirements: electronic message boards shall be limited to
text displays and subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Electronic message boards may scroll.
      (2)   Electronic message boards may display text with either occulting
lights or fixed lights.
      (3)   The transition from one image to the next must be accomplished in
one second or less.
      (4)   Electronic message boards must be equipped with automatic dimming
technology that automatically adjusts the display’s brightness based on ambient
light conditions.
      (5)   Automatic timers are required. Hours that electronic message board
must be turned off shall or remain static shall be between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., only date, time and temperature are allowed to be displayed.
      (6)   The transition from one image to the next must be accomplished in
one second or less.
      (7)   There can only be one message at a time on the sign.
      (8)   Advertising messages or information shall remain in a fixed, static
position for a minimum of three seconds.
      (9)   The sign shall not exceed a maximum illumination of 7,500 nits
(candelas per square meter) during daylight hours, and a maximum illumination
of 500 nits between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., as measured from the sign’s face
at maximum brightness.
      (10)   The electronic message sign must be physically attached to the
primary sign.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.9) (Updated 2009) (Amended 12-2-2014)
§ 8-3.6.11.10 Planned Development Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose; and
      (11)   General Industrial.
   (C)   Sign height requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of eight feet in the Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center,
Traditional Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of 15 feet in the Highway Commercial, Campus Business,
Special Purpose and General Industrial Districts.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one per street front or
development entrance.
   (E)   Sign area requirements:
      (1)   Maximum of 24 square feet in the Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center,
Traditional Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional Districts.
      (2)   In the Highway Commercial, Campus Business, Special Purpose and
General Industrial Districts; shall not exceed one square foot of sign area per
1,000 square feet of building floor area within the planned development as
defined by the site plan up to a maximum sign area of 300 square feet for all
planned development signs. The 300 square feet total may be in one or more
signs but there shall be no more than three such planned development signs. No
single business or location shall exceed more than one-third of the total sign
area on any planned development signs.
   (F)   Additional requirements: not applicable.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.10) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.11 Suspended Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: yes.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Neighborhood Center;
      (2)   Town Center;
      (3)   Highway Commercial; and
      (4)   Traditional Neighborhood Development.
   (C)   Sign height requirements: suspended signs height must be in accordance
with the State of North Carolina Building Code. If there are no requirements
for a prospective site, signs should hang no lower than at least seven feet
above the ground.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one per store front.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: shall not exceed one-half the size of the
nearest window or door on the same building or facade.
   (F)   Additional requirements: none.
This Suspended Sign is placed correctly in relation to
this storefront. It should help bring the attention of
pedestrian traffic without distracting motorist or blocking
other storefronts.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1413.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.11) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.12 Temporary Signs.
   (A)   Temporary signs permitted without a permit. The following temporary
signs are permitted without a zoning permit in all zoning districts, but shall
be in conformance with all other requirements of this article.
      (1)   Temporary freestanding signs placed in, but not obstructing, the
public right-of-way during downtown festivals and street events are permitted
in the Town Center District. The signs shall be displayed only on the day of
the event and only during the hours of the event.
      (2)   Sign boards placed on the sidewalk in the town center District
during business hours shall be permitted as long as they do not obstruct the
public sidewalk or hinder its use in any way by pedestrians or handicapped
persons.
      (3)   Temporary cross-street banners for community events shall be
permitted if approved by the Town Manager and installed by town personnel,
according to policies established by the Town Board.
      (4)   Campaign or election signs shall be permitted; provided that:
         (a)   Individual signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area nor six
feet in height.
         (b)   All signs shall be removed within seven days after the election
for which they were made.
         (c)   No signs shall be permitted in the public right-of-way.
      (5)   Real estate signs, excluding temporary development signs; provided
that:
         (a)   Signs advertising all residential lots, buildings, units or
spaces for sale or for lease shall not exceed six square feet in area nor four
feet in height. Rider signs not exceeding a total of two square feet in sign
face area shall be permitted in addition to the six square feet.
         (b)   Signs advertising all non-residential lots, buildings, units or
spaces for sale or for lease shall not exceed one square foot of sign area for
every five linear feet of frontage of the advertised property, up to a maximum
sign face area of 32 square feet. The signs shall not exceed a maximum height
of six feet.
         (c)   Only one sign per street front of the advertised property shall
be erected.
         (d)   Properties having a continuous frontage in excess of 850 linear
feet may be allowed an additional sign so long as such sign is no closer than
500 feet from another real estate sign on the same property.
         (e)   Signs shall not be illuminated.
         (f)   Signs shall be removed within seven days after the sale is
closed or rent or lease transaction finalized.
      (6)   Construction signs, other than temporary planned development signs,
are permitted; provided that:
         (a)   Signs located on residential lots, excluding multi-family sites,
shall not exceed six square feet in area. Rider signs not exceeding two square
feet in area shall be permitted in addition to the six square feet. The maximum
height of the signs shall be six feet.
         (b)   Signs for all multi-family development sites and non-residential
uses shall not exceed one square foot for every five linear feet of frontage of
property under construction, up to a maximum sign face area of 32 square feet.
The signs shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet.
         (c)   Signs are confined to the site of construction.
         (d)   Only one sign per street front of the property under
construction shall be erected.
         (e)   Signs shall not be illuminated.
         (f)   Signs shall be removed within seven days after the completion of
the project.
      (7)   Temporary farm products signs are permitted; provided that:
         (a)   Signs are located on the premises where the products are sold.
         (b)   Signs advertise products produced on-site only.
         (c)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area nor six feet in
height.
         (d)   Only one sign shall be erected.
         (e)   Signs shall be removed within seven days of the termination of
sale activities.
      (8)   Temporary special event signs or banners for religious, charitable,
civic, fraternal or similar organizations, are permitted; provided that:
         (a)   Signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area nor six feet in
height.
         (b)   Signs shall be erected no sooner than 14 days before and removed
seven days after the event.
      (9)   Public service and advertising signs in association with athletic
fields attached to the interior face of any fence which encloses or partially
encloses an athletic playing field upon the property of a school or public park
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   No sign face area shall be visible from any public street nor
from any abutting property in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
         (b)   No sign shall extend above the top of the enclosing fence.
         (c)   The property owner or an authorized representative shall provide
the town with a signed statement granting permission for signs to be displayed
and assuming responsibility for management of the signs as well as the
appropriate removal and disposal of damaged or obsolete signs.
      (10)   Temporary directional signs within a planned development, but not
visible from the road(s) fronting the overall development, shall be permitted
so long as such signs do not exceed 12 square feet in sign area, six feet in
height and are removed upon completion of the portion of the project to which
the signs are giving direction.
      (11)   Holiday lights and decorations.
      (12)   Any sign not legible or easily noticeable from public property or
a public right-of-way and obviously not intended to attract the attention of
the public.
      (13)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance.
   (B)   Temporary signs requiring a permit. Temporary signs permitted upon
issuance of a valid zoning permit shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   Temporary banners in Commercial and Mixed Use Districts, provided:
         (a)   Only one banner per establishment shall be allowed at a time.
         (b)   All banners shall be attached in total to a building wall or
permanent canopy extending from a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1415.jpg]
 
A Temporary Sign like the one above is only allowed for two
weeks and must have a valid sign permit applied for before
posting.
         (c)   No paper banners shall be allowed.
         (d)   Banners shall be erected for a period not to exceed two weeks.
         (e)   No more than six signs per establishment shall be erected within
a calendar year.
         (f)   No banner shall extend above the second occupied floor level of
a building.
      (2)   Temporary Planned Development Signs are permitted; provided that:
         (a)   Only one primary sign and two secondary signs shall be allowed
per street front of development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1417.jpg]
 
         (b)   The maximum sign face area of a primary sign shall not exceed 32
square feet; height of freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet.
         (c)   The maximum sign face area of secondary signs shall not exceed
12 square feet; height of freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet.
         (d)   Only one permit shall be required for all temporary planned
development signs for each planned development. Permits shall be valid until a
project is completed or two years, whichever comes first. Completion shall be
evidenced by the issuance of all certificates of occupancy for a development by
the Building Inspections Department. If a project is not completed in two
years, a new permit must be obtained. However, in no instance shall more than
three permits be issued for a development. All secondary signs shall be removed
when the first permit issued expires.
      (3)   Temporary off-premise signs or banners for special community
events, open to the general public and sponsored by non-commercial civic,
charitable, community or similar organizations, provided:
         (a)   Temporary signs shall be located outside of the public right-of-
way or at least 11 feet from the edge of any public street if the right-of-way
cannot be determined.
         (b)   Every temporary off-premise sign or banner shall be separated by
a distance of 400 feet from any other temporary off-premise sign on the same
side of a street and by a distance of 200 feet from any other sign on the
opposite side of a street.
         (c)   Nothing in this provision shall be construed to authorize the
posting of the signs or banners upon trees, utility poles, traffic control
signs, lights or devices in any place or manner prohibited by the provisions
herein, nor on private property without written consent of the owner.
      (4)   Any temporary sign not expressly permitted without a permit by this
section.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.12) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.11.13 Window Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: no.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose; and
      (11)   General Industrial.
   (C)   Number of signs permitted: not applicable.
   (D)   Sign area requirements: shall not exceed 25% of the window area.
Window Signs should be simple and
maintain the general transparency of the
window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1419.jpg]
 
   (E)   Additional requirements: the text or sign copy of a window sign should
be limited to the business name and brief messages identifying the product or
service (e.g., "maternity wear" or "attorney") or pertinent information (e.g.,
"reservations required").
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1421.jpg]
 
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.11.13) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.12 Non-Conforming Signs.
   (A)   The lawful use of a permanent sign existing at the time of the
adoption of this article may be continued in non-conformance with the
requirements of this article, except that the non-conforming sign shall not be
enlarged, altered, modified, improved or rebuilt. A non-conforming sign may be
repaired to the extent necessary to maintain it in a safe condition and neat
and orderly appearance. A change in the advertising message on the sign shall
not constitute an alteration or modification of the sign.
   (B)   No structural repair or change in shape, size or design shall be
permitted except to make a non-conforming sign comply with all requirements of
this article or to render the sign structurally sound. Routine maintenance and
changing of copy shall be permitted as long as the maintenance or changing of
copy does not result in or change the shape, size or design of the sign.
   (C)   A non-conforming sign structure may not be replaced by another non-
conforming sign structure, except where changed conditions beyond the control
of the owner warrant the signs repair.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.12) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.13 Exempt Signs.
   The following types of signs are exempt from the requirements of this
article unless otherwise expressly prohibited under §
8-3.6.7. However, all of these signs shall abide by the requirements as
specified in §
8-3.6.11:
   (A)   Signs for the sole purpose of displaying street numbers as may be
required by other ordinances and other signs required by law;
   (B)   Signs erected by or on the order of, a public officer in the
performance of his or her duty including, but not limited to, public notices,
safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic and street signs,
memorial plaques and signs of historical interest;
   (C)   Signs on private property prohibiting trespassing in accordance with
state law;
   (D)   Any sign not visible from public thoroughfares or any sign within a
business, office, mall or totally enclosed area;
   (E)   One official sign per road frontage, as required by the State of North
Carolina, identifying vehicle emissions inspection stations licensed by the
State of North Carolina;
   (F)   Signage on courtesy benches, trash receptacles, newspaper boxes,
automated teller kiosks and phone booths, not exceeding eight square feet of
sign area and not located within the required front yard setback for the zoning
district. Limited to one bench sign and one trash receptacle sign per lot; and
   (G)   Signage on coin-operated beverage dispensers, limited to three per lot
and not located within the required front yard setback for the zoning district.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.13) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.14 Weekend Signs.
   Weekend signs shall be allowed without the necessity of obtaining a permit,
subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   The signs shall be allowed only on Fridays from 12:00 p.m. through
Sundays until 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   No more than one weekend sign shall be allowed on any given lot.
   (C)   No sign shall be located on any public right-of-way and it must be on
private property with the consent of the property owner.
   (D)   Signs shall not exceed a maximum area of six square feet each.
   (E)   For identification purposes the owner of the sign shall stamp or write
legibly its name and contact information, on the backside or in a corner of the
sign.
   (F)   In order to confirm legitimacy of sign placement, the owner of every
weekend sign shall stamp or write legibly on the backside or corner of the sign
the name of the property owner providing authorization for placement of the
sign and a telephone number of that property owner.
   (G)   The signs shall not be illuminated.
   (H)   The minimum fine for placement of a weekend sign in contravention of
this article shall be $100.
   (I)   For purposes of prosecuting this chapter, it is hereby established
that if the subject matter of a wrongfully placed weekend sign is a business,
individual or entity subject to identification, then a rebuttable presumption
exists that the business, individual or entity so identified caused the sign to
be so placed and is subject to citation.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.14) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.15 Removal of Discontinued Signs.
   It is the intent of this section to establish reasonable time periods for
the removal of discontinued signs. For purposes of this section, all signs
pertaining to a business, service, institution, industry or other activity that
ceases operations shall be deemed to be discontinued signs. For purposes of
this section, "ceases operations" shall be interpreted literally and to include
cases where there is substantial evidence that a business or activity has
vacated the building or grounds; provided, further, that, this section shall
not apply to any case where a business or activity is temporarily suspended and
there is evidence that the business or activity will resume operations within a
specifically designated period. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner, the operator of a business or activity discontinuing a lease if any and
the leasehold manager if any, for ensuring compliance with the provisions of
this Section and each owner, operator or manager shall be considered
individually responsible for compliance with this section.
   (A)   All discontinued signs, with the exception of pole signs and monument
signs, shall be removed within ten days from the date of discontinuance. The
town may permit an extension of this removal period only in cases where special
equipment is needed to remove the sign and removal of the structure cannot
reasonably be arranged by the sign owner within the ten-day time period.
   (B)   All discontinued signs that meet the definition of a pole sign shall
be removed within 60 days from the date of discontinuance. The town may permit
one 30-day extension of this removal period only in cases where special
equipment is needed to remove the sign or sign structures and removal of the
structure cannot reasonably be arranged by the sign owner within the 60-day
time period.
   (C)   This Section shall not apply to the structure of a monument sign;
provided that, it might reasonably be used by a future tenant or property
owner, complies with the provisions of this article and is maintained in good
condition; provided further, that the following shall be met:
      (1)   If a discontinued monument sign contains an message panel that is
removable from the monument structure without disassembling the monument, then
within 30 days of the date of discontinuance, the panel shall be removed and
the portion of the monument structure that previously held the message panel
shall be covered with durable cloth or canvas to avoid the appearance of
blight, until the time as a new sign permit is applied for and granted and an
approved sign panel is installed in the monument.
      (2)   If a discontinued monument sign contains a sign copy area that is
not removable without disassembling the monument, then the sign copy area shall
be modified (e.g., painted over) or covered with durable cloth or canvas so
that the sign copy pertaining to the business or activity discontinued is no
longer visible, until the time as a new sign permit is applied for and granted
and approved sign copy is affixed on the sign copy area of the monument.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.15) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.16 Removal of Signs Not Maintained.
   All signs shall be maintained by the property owner in good condition so as
to present a neat and orderly appearance. The town may remove or cause to be
removed, after notice any sign which shows gross neglect, becomes dilapidated
or in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer poses a threat to public
safety. The town or his or her designee will give the owner 45 days' written
notice to correct the deficiencies or to remove the sign or signs, except signs
which pose a threat to public safety which shall be removed. If the owner
refuses to correct the deficiencies or remove the sign, town or his or her
designee will have the sign removed at the expense of the owner.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.16) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.17 Enforcement.
   This article shall be administered and enforced by the Town Manager or his
or her designee. In case any sign is proposed to be erected, constructed,
altered, converted or used in violation of any provision of this article, the
town may, in addition to other remedies and after notice to the appropriate
person, issue a citation for violation of the town ordinance thereby requiring
the presence of the violator in magistrate court; institute the filing of a
petition for an injunction or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent
the unlawful erection, construction, alteration, conversion or use to correct
or abate the violation. Additionally, the town may have the sign removed at the
expense of the owner and may issue a citation for violation of the town
ordinance to the agent that placed the sign, as well as those parties
responsible for directing the agent, including the person or business owner
whose name, message and/or address and/or telephone number appears on the sign.
Any sign located within a public street right-of-way may be removed immediately
by the town without warning or notice to the sign owner.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.6.12) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.6.18 Civic Signs.
   (A)   Permit required: no.
   (B)   Zoning Districts allowed:
      (1)   Open Space Residential;
      (2)   General Residential;
      (3)   Neighborhood Residential;
      (4)   Neighborhood Center;
      (5)   Town Center;
      (6)   Highway Commercial;
      (7)   Traditional Neighborhood Development;
      (8)   Campus Institutional;
      (9)   Campus Business;
      (10)   Special Purpose;
      (11)   General Industrial; and
      (12)   Floodplain.
   (C)   Sign height requirements:
      (1)   Maximum height of six feet in Open Space Residential, General
Residential, Neighborhood Residential, Neighborhood Center, Town Center,
Traditional Neighborhood Development, Campus Institutional, Campus Business,
Special Purpose, General Industrial, and Floodplain Districts.
      (2)   Maximum of eight feet in the Highway Commercial District.
   (D)   Number of signs permitted: maximum of one per street front,
development entrance or sign casement.
   (E)   Sign area requirements: maximum of 32 square feet.
   (F)   Additional requirements:
      (1)   Any changeable face portion shall not exceed 40% of the sign face.
      (2)   Signage advertising day of events may be placed no sooner than 6:00
p.m. the day before, and must be removed by 8:00 p.m. the day after.
(Adopted 1-8-2013)
§ 8-3.7 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
§ 8-3.7.1 Conformity Required.
   No person may use, occupy or sell any land, structure or building or
authorize or allow the use, occupancy or sale of any land, structure or
building under his or her control except in accordance with all of the
applicable provisions of this article. For the purpose of this section, the use
or occupancy of structures and buildings shall relate to anything and
everything that is done to, on or in the land, structures or buildings.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.2 Street Frontage Required.
   Any lot on which a building (or buildings) is to be erected or use is to be
established shall abut a public street with the following exceptions:
   (A)   Any lot for which a residential use has been legally established prior
to the effective date of this article in accordance with provisions permitting
establishment of use on a lot served by a private and exclusive recorded
easement of at least 15 feet in width connecting the lot to a public street,
may be used as if it abutted a street; provided that, it is served by a
driveway located on the easement;
   (B)   Any lot for which a non-residential use has been legally established
prior to the effective date of this article in accordance with provisions
permitting establishment of use on a lot served by a private, exclusive
recorded easement of at least 15 feet in width connecting the lot to a public
street, may be construed in the same manner as a lot abutting a street;
provided that, it is served with a driveway built to appropriate standards
located on the permanent, recorded easement;
   (C)   A site specific development plan may be considered for approval in the
TC, NC, NR, OSR and TND-O Districts where residential and/or non-residential
structures front upon a private courtyard, carriageway or pedestrian way, where
adequate access by emergency vehicles is maintained by way of a rear alley and
where the off-street placement of uses does not diminish the orientation of
building fronts on the public street;
   (D)   A site specific development plan may be considered for approval in the
Campus Districts to permit interior lot access by private drives so long as
business and emergency access is furnished to all interior building sites and
proposed buildings at the perimeter of the campus front upon public street(s).
See the Campus Districts;
   (E)   A development site consisting of one or more legal lots of record
which is developed under a coordinated, approved site specific plan and which
is accessed solely by driveways shall only be required to abut a public street
along some portion of the development site the minimum distance of which shall
be determined by the town to be adequate for public and emergency vehicle
access but which shall not be less than 35 feet; and
   (F)   A multi-family, townhouse, condominium or industrial development site
consisting of one or more legal lots of record which is developed under a
coordinated, approved site specific plan may be permitted, on a case by case
basis, to be served by a private street network and shall only be required to
abut a public street along some portion of the development site the minimum
distance of which shall be determined by the town to be adequate for public and
emergency vehicle access, but which shall not be less than 35 feet.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.3 One Principal Building per Lot; Exceptions.
   Only one principal building and its customary accessory building(s) may be
erected on any lot, except that multiple buildings may be erected on a single
lot as permitted by use and District regulations.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.4 Lot Size.
   No building lot (development site), even though it may consist of one or
more adjacent lots of record, shall be reduced in size such that the
requirements for building and lot type cannot be met or the performance
standards for spacing of structures, building mass and scale and street
frontage relationships cannot be respected. This prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent the purchase, dedication or condemnation of narrow strips
of land for public utilities or street or sidewalk right-of-way purposes.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.5 Yard Designation.
   (A)   On lots which abut more than one street, the front of the lot shall be
parallel to the more prominent street. Exceptions may be made to this rule by
the Zoning Administrator based upon the arrangement of existing and proposed
streets and drives and the orientation of buildings on adjoining lots. Where
neither street is more prominent than the other, the Zoning Administrator shall
decide which street shall be the front based upon these same criteria.
   (B)   Where multiple buildings are permitted on a single lot of record, each
building shall generally front upon a pedestrian oriented street, either
external or internal to the development; side and rear yard designations shall
be determined on the basis of building orientation.
   (C)   On irregularly shaped lots, the location of required front, side and
rear yards will be determined by the Zoning Administrator. The determination
will be based on the spirit and intent of this article to achieve an
appropriate spacing of buildings and orientation to the street(s).
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.6 Through Lots.
   If both the front and rear yards of a lot abut public streets, then the rear
building line shall respect the alignment of buildings on the back street while
the front building line shall respect the alignment of buildings on the
fronting street.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.7 Height Limitation Exceptions.
   (A)   The height limitations of this section shall not apply to steeples,
flagpoles, chimneys, water tanks, public utility poles and lines, skylights,
roof structures for elevators, stairways, tanks, heating, ventilation and air-
conditioning equipment or similar equipment for the operation and maintenance
of a building and any device used to screen the structures and equipment.
   (B)   Telecommunication towers, where permitted, may exceed the height limit
for structures when erected in accordance with this article.
   (C)   When adjacent to a lot or lots located in a residential District, any
part of a non-residential structure which extends above the height limit shall,
at a minimum, be separated from adjacent residential lots by a distance equal
to its height measured from the ground.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.7) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.8 Structures and Uses Limited in Yards.
   (A)   No principal building or structure shall be located within any
required setback or yard.
   (B)   No principal building or structure shall be located within any
required buffer or screen.
   (C)   Permitted fences and walls, security gates, paths, walkways,
mailboxes, utility poles, lighting fixtures, patios at grade and similar
features may be located in a required yard, so long as the sight triangle on
corner lots is protected.
   (D)   Permitted signs may be located in an established front or side yard
abutting a public street.
   (E)   Off-street parking areas, maneuvering areas for parking and loading
areas are prohibited in required yards. This restriction shall not apply to:
      (1)   A driveway which crosses a required yard to provide access from a
public street to a parking area;
      (2)   Driveways and parking areas for a detached or duplex residential
dwelling;
      (3)   Plazas associated with civic buildings or campus quadrangles that
have been designed and approved for occasional use as secondary parking areas;
      (4)   Yards included within specific streetscape plans adopted by the
Town Board in which the plans include limited parking and access in adjacent
yards; or
      (5)   Front yards in the Highway Commercial District which meet the
requirements for front parking.
   (F)   Subordinate structures attached to single-family homes, such as decks,
garages, porches, utility rooms and similar features may extend into the
required rear yard up to 25% of its depth and may cover up to 20% of its area.
The extensions may not exceed 50% of the width of the dwelling at the rear
building line.
   (G)   Above-ground sewer backflow prevention devices are expressly
prohibited in the established front yards of buildings.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.9 Accessory Structures and Uses.
   (A)   In no event shall "accessory use" or "accessory structure "be
construed to authorize a use or structure not otherwise permitted in the
District in which the principal use is located.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be limited to the rear yard of a lot
containing a principal building.
      (1)   These buildings shall not be located within five feet of a rear lot
line.
      (2)   Where permitted, accessory dwellings may be located no closer than
five feet to an abutting mid-block alley, nor closer than 15 feet to an
abutting property line.
      (3)   Accessory buildings may be located in the front of side yard;
provided that, the lot is used for single-family purposes and is greater than
one acre in size (area). In such a case, the residential accessory building
shall be set back from the road right-of-way a minimum of 100 feet, and 25 feet
from any other lot line.
   (C)   Accessory uses and structures that are clearly related to and
incidental to the permitted principal use or structure on the lot are permitted
in all Districts.
   (D)   Fences and walls shall be permitted without a permit as follows.
      (1)   In a Residential, Mixed Use or Commercial District, a fence or wall
in the established front yard of a building shall be a minimum of two feet in
height and a maximum of five feet in height. Decorative caps or spires which
extend above the highest horizontal member of the fence shall not be included
in the measurement of height.
      (2)   In a Residential or Mixed Use District, a fence or wall in an
established rear or side yard which abuts a street or alley may not exceed six
feet in height unless placed more than five feet inside the property boundary.
      (3)   In a Commercial District, fences of chain link or similar material
placed in an established yard which abuts a Residential or Mixed Use District
shall provide a semi-opaque vegetative screen on the exterior side of the
fence.
   (E)   Petroleum storage, accessory to a permitted principal use or building
is permitted.
   (F)   Temporary buildings and storage of materials are permitted; provided
that, the use is in conjunction with the construction of a building on the same
lot or on an adjacent lot; the temporary uses shall be terminated upon
completion of construction.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.9) (Updated 2009) (Amended 11-5-2013)
§ 8-3.7.10 Clear Sight Triangle at Street Intersections.
   (A)   A clear view at each corner of an intersection shall be maintained by
establishing an unobstructed "sight triangle". The extent of the required sight
triangle varies according to the speed limit of streets forming the
intersection. For streets signed 35 mph or greater, the area to be clear of
view obstructions at unsignalized intersections is generally to be the
triangular area formed by the point of intersection of street right-of-way
lines and a point located along each right-of-way line at a distance of 35 feet
from the point of intersection. For intersecting streets signed for less than
35 mph, the shaded area in the figure below illustrates the area which must, in
most instances, be clear of obstructions to driver visibility at unsignalized
intersections. As indicated, the clear sight triangle will vary according to
speed limit for traffic on the approaching street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1423.jpg]
 
   (B)   No planting, structure, sign, fence, wall, human-made berm or other
obstruction to vision shall be installed, constructed, set out or maintained so
as to obstruct cross-visibility in the sight triangle between 30 inches and 72
inches above the level of the center of the street intersection.
   (C)   The limitations of this section may be modified by the Zoning
Administrator in the instances noted below, so long as adequate visibility is
maintained relative to intended speed limit:
      (1)   Existing natural grades;
      (2)   Trees trimmed such that no limbs or foliage extend into the area
between 30 and 72 inches above the level of the adjacent intersection;
      (3)   Fire hydrants, public utility poles, street markers, government
signs, electrical junction boxes and traffic control devices;
      (4)   Buildings located in the Town Center District, the Neighborhood
Center District or the commercial centers of TND Districts; and
      (5)   The approved and intentional use of traffic calming techniques to
reduce speed; these include, but are not limited to: a series of hill crests,
neckdowns, intersection diverters and curb bulbs.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.10) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.11 Building Separation.
   All detached principle structures in all Districts shall preserve a minimum
building separation of ten feet. The requirement of the District or the
existing pattern of building spacing along a street may require a greater
separation or the provision of specified side yards.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.11) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.12 Standards for Construction; Developer Responsibility.
   Where standards and responsibility for infrastructure construction,
including, but not limited to, streets, sidewalks and landscaping, are
specified in this document, the town standards shall control.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.12) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.13 Driveways.
   (A)   No driveway or other point of access to the street shall be
constructed, relocated or altered unless the driveway has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   For development projects composed of multiple buildings and lots,
access to the pre-existing public street system shall be determined by the
location of proposed intersecting streets, topography and other general site
characteristics. No parcel of land which is a functional part of the overall
development, even though it may be removed by the developer from the rest of
the project area by subdivision or by metes and bounds description, shall be
permitted to have driveway access to the public streets bounding the project
area.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.13) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.14 Measuring Setbacks along Certain Streets.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-306, the setback requirements for any lot
which abuts a street as classified below shall be measured from the proposed
right-of-way line as listed if the existing right-of-way is of lesser width.
 
Street Classification Distance from Street Center Line to "Proposed Right of-
                      Way Line"
Freeway or expressway 125 feet
Major arterial        50 feet
Minor arterial        35 feet
Major collector       30 feet
Minor collector       30 feet
 
   (B)   Whenever the proposed right-of-way is greater than the existing right-
of-way along a particular street segment, the yard area established under the
guidelines above can be used for any purpose allowed by the particular zoning
district, except buildings and other permanent uses which are prohibited in the
required yard. Required parking, if not able to be provided elsewhere on the
lot, shall be considered a permanent use of the lot. At the time that the
proposed right-of-way is dedicated or otherwise acquired for roadway purposes,
the property owner shall be responsible for the removal of any uses from the
right-of-way that would not otherwise be permitted. The property owner shall
have one year from the date of right-of-way acquisition to remove any such
uses.
   (C)   The area between the existing right-of-way and the proposed right-of-
way line may not be used to satisfy any minimum open space, lot size or
pervious surface requirement or any other minimum requirements imposed by this
article.
   (D)   The standards within this section shall not apply to any lot within in
the Town Center District.
   (E)   An affected property owner shall have the right to appeal transitional
yard or setback requirements to the Board of Adjustment for variance or
modification as they apply to a particular piece of property. The Board of
Adjustment may vary or modify these requirements upon a showing that:
      (1)   The peculiar nature of the property results in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships that impede carrying out the strict
letter of the requirements and
      (2)   The property will not yield a reasonable return or cannot be put to
reasonable use unless relief is granted and
      (3)   Balancing the public interest in enforcing the setback requirements
and the interest of the owner, the grant of relief is required by
considerations of justice and equity.
   (F)   In granting relief, the Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable and
appropriate conditions and safeguards to protect the interests of neighboring
properties. The Board of Adjustment’s decision shall be subject to review by
the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari in accordance
with G.S. § 160D-1402.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.14) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.7.15 Negative Access Easements.
   Private negative access easements in which no driveway or other vehicle or
pedestrian access is permitted to a lot from an adjacent public street, shall
be prohibited, except those easements required by the town to limit driveways
on existing public streets.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.15) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.16 Non-conformities.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this article is to regulate
and limit the continued existence of uses and structures that were established
prior to the effective date of these regulations and that do not conform to
these regulations. Any non-conformity created by a change in the text of these
regulations or by the reclassification of property shall be regulated by the
provisions of this chapter. The "effective date" referenced below shall be the
date the text of these regulations or the Zoning Map is amended to render a
particular use, structure or lot non-conforming. Many non-conformities may
continue, but the provisions of this chapter are designed to curtail
substantial investment in non- conformities and to bring about their eventual
improvement or elimination.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses.
      (1)   Non-conforming uses of land or structures may continue only in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   A non-conforming use shall not be expanded.
      (3)   A non-conforming use shall not be changed to any other use unless
the new use conforms to the standards of the zoning district in which it is
located. Once a non-conforming use is changed to a conforming use, a non-
conforming use shall not be re-established.
      (4)   Where a non-conforming use is discontinued or abandoned for a
period of 180 days, then the use shall not be re-established or resumed and any
subsequent use of the land or structure shall conform to the requirements of
these regulations.
      (5)   No structural changes shall be made in any structure occupied by a
non-conforming use except as follows.
         (a)   Those structural changes ordered by an authorized official in
order to ensure the safety of the structure shall be permitted.
         (b)   Maintenance and repairs to keep a structure in sound condition
shall be permitted.
         (c)   Structural changes necessary to convert the non-conforming use
to a conforming use shall be permitted.
         (d)   An existing non-conforming residential structure may be enlarged
or altered; provided that, no additional dwelling units result therefrom. Any
such enlargement or alterations shall be in compliance with all yard
requirements of the District and/or use.
         (e)   The structure and its accompanying use may be moved to another
location on the lot so long as the structure meets all applicable requirements
of the District.
   (C)   Non-conforming structures.
      (1)   A non-conforming structure, devoted to a use permitted in the
zoning district in which it is located, may continue only in accordance with
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow the
continuation of a non- conforming structure.
      (3)   Any non-conforming structure may be enlarged if the expansion does
not increase the non-conformity.
      (4)   A non-conforming structure shall not be moved unless it thereafter
conforms to the standards of the zoning district in which it is located.
      (5)   A non-conforming structure, destroyed or damaged so that more than
25% of the value of the structure remains, may be repaired or restored if a
building permit for the repair or restoration is issued within six months of
the date of the damage. A non-conforming structure, destroyed or damaged so
that no more than 25% of its value remains, may be repaired or restored only if
the structure conforms to the standards of these regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located. The extent of damage or destruction shall be
determined by comparing the estimated cost of repair or restoration with the
current assessed tax value.
      (6)   (a)   A non-conforming structure shall not be replaced with another
non- conforming structure regardless of the degree of non-conformity.
         (b)   Where a legal non-conforming Class A or B type manufactured home
is located in the Open Space Residential OSR Zoning District, it may be
replaced in the same location with the same class and same or newer year model
home, or a Class A and same or newer year model home that meets the
requirements of §
8-3.8.41.
   (D)   Non-conforming vacant lots.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (D)(2) below, a non-conforming
vacant lot may be used for any of the uses permitted by these regulations in
the zoning district in which it is located; provided that, the use meets all
yard, parking and screening requirements of this article for the zoning
district in which it is located.
      (2)   If two or more adjacent, non-conforming, unimproved lots are held
in single ownership, the lots shall be considered to be a single building lot
for the purposes of this article. If the combination results in the creation of
a building lot that is more than one-and-one half times the width and area
required in the zoning district, then the two lots may be legally resubdivided
into two lots of equal width and area both of which may be developed under the
authority of subsection (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Additional requirement for non-conforming accessory uses and
structures. No non-conforming accessory use or accessory structure shall
continue after the principal use or structure is terminated by abandonment,
discontinuance, damage or destruction unless the accessory use or accessory
structure thereafter is made to conform to the standards for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   (F)   Additional requirements for manufactured home parks.
      (1)   Non-conforming manufactured home parks may not be expanded or
increased in size which shall include adding spaces to the park.
      (2)   When a site at a non-conforming manufactured home park is vacated,
another manufactured home may not be placed on that site.
   (G)   Changes of tenancy and/or ownership. There may be a change in tenancy
or ownership of an existing non-conforming use or structure, provided there is
no change in the nature or character of the non-conforming use or structure
except as provided herein and all other applicable requirements of this article
are met (e.g., parking, screening, landscaping and the like).
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.16) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-4-2014)
§ 8-3.7.17 Building Type.
   (A)   Manufactured housing shall not be used as permanent structures except
in the MH District.
   (B)   Modular buildings shall not be used as permanent structures unless
such are placed on a permanent masonry foundation and meet all of the other
design standards for buildings in the District in which they are located.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.17) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.7.18 Swimming Pools.
   Swimming pools located on any site, including single-family residential
sites, shall be:
   (A)   Located in a side or rear yard only;
   (B)   Located a minimum of 20 feet from any property line; and
   (C)   Completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than four feet and no
more than eight feet in height above grade as measured on the side of the fence
or wall which faces away from the swimming pool. This fence or wall shall
enclose the pool itself and may include any other additional portions of the
lot. All fence or wall openings into the pool area shall be equipped with a
gate that opens outward away from the pool and shall be self-closing and have a
self-latching device. (See §
8-3.5.2 for additional fence requirements.)
(2003 Code, § 8-3.7.18) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   Note: These conditions apply only to uses "permitted with conditions" or by
"special use permit" in the applicable zoning district as shown in §
8-3.3.5, Table of Uses.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.1 Above Ground Utilities.
   (A)   Utility distribution lines, which deliver service to the end user from
a substation fed by a transmission line providing service to an area larger
than the individual parcel or project area, shall be installed underground,
unless subsurface conditions make underground installation not possible or
practical.
   (B)   Facilities used for the operation of above ground utilities shall,
whenever possible, be located on interior properties rather than on properties
aligned with other lots that have continuous street frontage.
   (C)   Areas around water towers, water and wastewater treatment facilities,
substations and power plants shall be enclosed by a fence, not easily
climbable, at least six feet in height. The fence shall be located at least 20
feet from any public street right-of-way and abutting property line and shall
be planted on the exterior side with a semi-opaque vegetative screen with
expected height of at least six feet at maturity.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.2 (Reserved).
§ 8-3.8.3 Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached or Detached.
   An accessory dwelling may be attached, within or separate from the principal
dwelling.
   (A)   The principal use of the lot shall be residential and the principle
structure on the lot shall be a residential building (single-family, duplex,
multi-family or townhouse).
   (B)   No more than one accessory dwelling shall be permitted on a single lot
of record in conjunction with the principal dwelling unit.
   (C)   The accessory dwelling shall be owned by the same person as the
principal dwelling.
   (D)   The accessory dwelling shall not be served by a driveway separate from
that serving the principal dwelling unless the accessory dwelling is accessed
from a rear alley and the principal dwelling is accessed from a street. A
corner lot may be served by a separate driveway if approved by Davie County
Development Service and/or NCDOT.
   (E)   A detached accessory dwelling shall be no greater in size than 1,100
square feet or 75% of the living area of the principal dwelling and may have no
more than two bedrooms; the structure may be a dwelling only or may combine a
dwelling with garage, workshop, studio, or similar accessory use. This standard
is voluntary for dwellings permitted under the North Carolina Residential
Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
   (F)   An accessory dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 600 square feet. This
standard is voluntary for dwellings permitted under the North Carolina
Residential Building Code for One- and Two- Family Dwellings.
   (G)   A detached accessory dwelling shall be located in the rear yard.
   (H)   The owner of the accessory dwelling shall live on the parcel
containing the accessory dwelling.
   (I)   A manufactured home shall not be used as an accessory dwelling unit.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.3) (Updated 11-1-2011) (Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 8-3.8.4 Adult Establishments.
   (A)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet (determined
by a straight line and not street distance) of the closest boundary line of any
Residential Zoning District or of any point on the closest property line of any
church, school, day care, public park, residence or playground as measured by a
horizontal straight line distance from the closest point on the closest
boundary line of the property occupied by the adult establishment.
   (B)   No adult establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet (determined
by a straight line and not street distance) of any other adult establishment as
measured by a horizontal, straight line distance from the closest point on the
closest boundary line of the property occupied by each.
   (C)   No more than one adult establishment may be located within the same
structure.
   (D)   Mini-motion picture booths shall be constructed without doors and
shall orient the customer entrance of each booth toward the principal sales
counter.
   (E)   Patrons of adult establishments shall be separated from entertainers,
performers or entertainment employees by a minimum of six feet.
   (F)   All performers or entertainment employees of adult establishments
shall perform on and be limited to an elevated stage or platform, elevated from
the main floor by at least three feet.
   (G)   No printed material, slide, video, photograph, written text, live show
or other visual presentation shall be visible to the public or an adjacent
property or use, nor shall any live or recorded voices, music or sounds be
heard from outside the walls of the establishment.
   (H)   A licensed manager shall be on duty at all times
   (I)   Law enforcement personnel shall be given access to all public areas of
the establishment at all times.
   (J)   An adult establishment shall not locate within a non-conforming
structure or non-conforming property.
   (K)   The gross floor area of any adult establishment shall not exceed 5,000
square feet and all business related activity shall be conducted within the
building.
   (L)   Enclosed or fenced parking shall be prohibited.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.4) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.5 Agricultural Industry.
   (A)   There shall be a separation of no less than 250 feet between
structures housing the agricultural industry and the closest point of any
property located in a Residential District or developed for residential or
mixed use purposes.
   (B)   The use shall be located on a lot containing no less than ten acres.
   (C)   Agricultural uses shall maintain a minimum ten foot vegetated buffer
or equivalent control as determined by the Soil and Water Conservation
Commission along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute) topographic maps.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.6 Agriculture, Bonafide Farms.
   Agricultural uses must maintain a minimum ten foot vegetated buffer or
equivalent control as determined by the Soil and Water Conservation Commission
along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:
24,000 scale (7.5 minute) topographic maps.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.6) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.7 Agriculture Implement Sales and Service.
   (A)   Outdoor storage, display and sales of agricultural supply items and
materials, implements and equipment are permitted except:
      (1)   Such shall not be located in the front yard of the principal use as
the term front yard is defined in the zoning ordinance; or
      (2)   As limited in divisions (B) through (C) below.
   (B)   Outdoor storage and displays shall not occur within 40 feet of a
residential use or residentially zoned property.
   (C)   Outdoor display and sales of merchandise accessory to a principal use
shall not:
      (1)   Be located in any public street right-of-way;
      (2)   Block the entrance to any building;
      (3)   Be placed in any front yard or side yard abutting a town street;
and
      (4)   Display merchandise higher than any fence within which the
merchandise is enclosed.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.7) (Updated 2009) (Amended 9-5-2017)
§ 8-3.8.8 Amusements, Commercial, Outdoor.
   (A)   Outdoor amusement facilities shall be separated by an opaque screen
from any abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   No permanently established amusement facilities, such as miniature
golf courses, skateboard courses or mechanical rides shall be located within
200 feet of the closest point of any abutting property located in a residential
District.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later
than 12:00 midnight
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.9 Arenas; Assembly Halls, Coliseums, Armories, Ballrooms, Reception
Halls, and Exhibition Buildings.
   (A)   The facility shall have direct access to a major arterial.
   (B)   All facilities shall be located at least one hundred linear feet from
any lot line and 300 linear feet from a residential District.
   (C)   (1)   Additional requirements for facilities located in OSR and CI.
      (2)   Class B landscape buffer where property abuts Residential or Mixed
Use District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.9) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.10 Bed and Breakfast Establishment.
   (A)   The establishment shall not serve food or drink to the general public
for pay.
   (B)   The establishment may serve breakfast, lunch and dinner, or a
combination of all or some of these three meals, to registered guests of the
home.
   (C)   The price of breakfast shall be included in the room rate.
   (D)   The establishment shall be the permanent residence of the owner of the
establishment.
   (E)   In any residential zoning district, no more than two off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in the front yard and overnight guest
accommodations shall be in the principal structure only.
   (F)   Off-street parking in the side and rear yards shall be screened in
accordance with parking lot landscaping and screening requirements. Parking
shall be placed on the lot in a manner designed to have the least physical
impact on adjoining residential uses.
   (G)   Employment shall not exceed two full time employees in addition to the
owner(s).
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.10) (Updated 2009) (Amended 11-5-2013)
§ 8-3.8.11 Boarding or Rooming House.
   (A)   The house shall be the permanent residence of the owner of the
establishment.
   (B)   In any Residential Zoning District, no more than two off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in the front yard.
   (C)   Off-street parking in the side and rear yards shall be screened in
accordance with parking lot landscaping and screening requirements. Parking
shall be placed on the lot in a manner designed to have the least physical
impact on adjoining residential uses.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.11) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.12 Building Contractors, General; Heavy.
   (A)   All outdoor storage of non-passenger vehicles and building materials
shall be kept at least 100 linear feet from any adjacent residential use and
shall be located in a side or rear yard only. This setback requirement may be
reduced to 50 feet if the outdoor storage area is enclosed by a solid fence of
six minimum feet with approval from the Planning Director.
   (B)   No outdoor equipment or materials shall be visible to the public.
   (C)   Any materials within a fenced area shall not be stacked higher than
the fence.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.12) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.13 Building Materials Supply; Saw Mills.
   (A)   All outdoor storage of logs, lumber and building materials shall be
kept at least 100 linear feet from any adjacent residential lot.
   (B)   Storage of logs, lumber and building materials shall be located in a
side or rear yard only.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.13) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.14 Bulk Storage of Petroleum Products; Fuel Dealers.
   (A)   All storage tanks and loading facilities will be located at least 200
feet from any exterior property line.
   (B)   Facility shall be separated by a Type A landscape buffer from any
abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (C)   Vehicle access to the use shall be provided by way of a major or minor
thoroughfare or a commercial street directly intersecting a thoroughfare.
   (D)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (E)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
developer prior to operations beginning.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.14) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.15 Car Wash, Automatic.
   (A)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened in
accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
   (B)   Car washes, vacuums and similar service devices shall be a minimum of
20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent Residential Zoning District or
residential use.
   (C)   Car washes accessory to a principle use shall be located in the side
or rear yard only.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.15) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.16 Car Wash, Industrial.
   (A)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened in
accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
   (B)   Car washes, vacuums and similar service devices shall be a minimum of
20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent Residential Zoning District or
residential use.
   (C)   Car washes accessory to a principle use shall be located in the rear
yard only.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.16) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.17 Car Wash, Self-Service.
   (A)   The outdoor service area of a car wash shall be placed and screened in
accordance with the standards for on-site parking.
   (B)   Car washes, vacuums and similar service devices shall be a minimum of
20 feet from the nearest portion of an adjacent Residential Zoning District or
residential use.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.17) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.18 Cemetery.
   (A)   Tombstones, crypts, monuments and mausoleums must be located at least
25 feet from any street right-of-way line or abutting property. Greater
setbacks shall be observed if otherwise required by the zoning district in
which it is located. Gravesites shall also be set back at least twenty feet
from any side or rear lot lines in cemeteries (or cemetery expansions).
   (B)   Sales of crypts shall be allowed as an accessory use on premises (for
cemeteries as a principal use only). No building in conjunction with the sales
shall be located closer than 20 feet from any side lot line abutting a
residential District and 40 feet from any such rear lot line.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, a minimum of
three acres shall be needed for any cemetery being developed as a principal
use.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.18) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.19 Childcare Institution; Day Care Center.
   (A)   Outdoor play and/or recreation areas shall be located behind the front
building line in the rear yard or side yard only. If located in the side yard,
a minimum side yard setback of ten feet shall be observed. On corner or through
lots, a minimum 20-foot setback as measured from the abutting street right-of-
way line shall be required.
   (B)   All outdoor play and recreation areas shall be surrounded by a fence
or wall at least four feet in height.
   (C)   Outdoor activities are limited to the fenced area between 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   At least one off-street passenger loading/unloading space separate
from required parking shall be provided for each 20 people enrolled. Adequate
on-site turnaround area shall be provided for all loading/unloading and parking
spaces.
   (E)   Uses designed to accommodate more than 30 children shall have a
minimum lot size of one acre.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.19) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.20 Church or Religious Institution, Community Scale.
   (A)   Exterior lighting shall be directed or screened so as to protect the
privacy of the private living areas and associated open spaces of adjacent
residential properties.
   (B)   Convents, rectories, parsonages or similar uses may be placed on the
site as accessory uses.
   (C)   Accessory uses such as church offices, religious bookstores serving
the immediate congregation, parking lots, family life centers, multi-purpose
facilities, outdoor recreational facilities and day care centers on the same
site or sites contiguous to the principal use shall be permitted. Similar uses
on non-contiguous sites or on a site separated from the principal use by a
public street shall be considered principal uses in their own right and be
regulated as such.
   (D)   Church accessory uses which are not permitted as principal uses in a
District shall adhere to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No merchandise or merchandise display shall be visible from outside
the building.
      (2)   No business or identification sign pertaining to the accessory uses
shall be visible from outside the building.
   (E)   Except as noted in subsection (C) above, accessory uses not permitted
as principal uses (including television stations, radio stations, printing
presses or sports complexes) are prohibited.
   (F)   Direct access to the site shall be provided by a major or minor
thoroughfare, as depicted on the most up-to-date version of the Thoroughfare
Plan.
   (G)   The minimum site area shall be three acres.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.20) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.20.1 Church or Religious Institution, Neighborhood Scale.
   Accessory uses such as church offices, parking lots, family life centers,
multi-purpose facilities, outdoor recreational facilities and day care centers
on the same site or sites contiguous to the principal use shall be permitted.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.20.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.21 Civic, Fraternal, Cultural and Community Facilities, Not Otherwise
Listed; Private Non-profit Club or Lodge.
   (A)   The use has direct access to an arterial or collector street.
   (B)   No active part of the site (buildings, parking, recreational areas and
the like) are permitted within 50 feet of an adjacent single-family residential
use.
   (C)   An auditorium or assembly hall is only permitted; provided that:
      (1)   The use is permitted as a principal use in the District or
      (2)   The use is limited to a seating capacity of no more than 150
people.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.21) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.22 Clubs, Private.
   (A)   Private clubs shall be open to members of the club and their guests
only.
   (B)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 10:00 a.m. and no later
than 1:00 a.m. when the use abuts a residential use or a residentially zoned
lot. This restriction shall not apply where such use is separated from a
residential use or a residentially zoned lot by a major arterial street.
   (C)   Outdoor seating areas shall not be permitted within 250 feet of a
residential use or a residentially zoned lot.
   (D)   No outdoor amplified sound will be permitted after 11:00 p.m.
   (E)   Noise emanating from the club shall not exceed ambient noise levels in
the surrounding area at a distance of more than 100 feet from any point of the
property containing the club.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.22) (Updated 2009; Amended 3-12-2020; Amended 6-2-2020)
§ 8-3.8.23 Cluster Subdivisions.
   (A)   All lots within the development shall be accessed solely by interior
streets, except that lots used for permitted non-residential uses may have
driveway access to adjacent streets if approved by the town.
   (B)   No non-residential use in the development shall be permitted within
150 feet of the perimeter of the development site unless the adjacent zoning
district permits the use.
   (C)   The overall density of the cluster subdivision shall not exceed that
of a non-clustered subdivision. Land "saved" by clustering shall be dedicated
for open space according to the requirements of §
8-3.5.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.23) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.24 College or University.
   (A)   Schools shall be located on streets sized to accommodate normal
traffic volumes of existing uses plus the additional traffic projected to be
generated by the school(s).
   (B)   Accessory and incidental buildings shall be placed within established
rear yards and side yards that do not abut a street.
   (C)   Where chain link and similar fencing material are installed in an
established yard abutting a street, the fencing shall be planted on the
exterior side with evergreen shrubs minimum three feet in height (expected
height at maturity minimum six feet), six feet on center at installation.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.24) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.25 Community Center.
   Any community center having a seating capacity in excess of 500 persons
shall have direct access to a major or minor arterial.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.25) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.26 Construction Vehicle and Heavy Machinery Sales, Repair, Leasing,
Maintenance and Storage.
   Outdoor storage of construction vehicles and heavy machinery associated with
sales, repair, leasing, maintenance and storage operations shall be permitted
according to the following standards:
   (A)   Where permitted as an accessory use in conjunction with a building,
the area of storage shall not be placed in any established yard abutting a
street.
   (B)   Where permitted as a principal use on a lot, the area of storage shall
be no closer than forty feet from an abutting street right-of-way.
   (C)   The area of outdoor storage shall be screened from view from the
street(s) and from all abutting properties by an opaque screen; wherever
security fencing is desired, it shall be placed on the interior side of the
opaque screen.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.26) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.27 Correctional Institutions.
   (A)   The principal structure and any accessory use or structure (excluding
property boundary fencing) shall be located at least 500 feet from any property
located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Property boundary fencing shall not employ barbed wire, razor wire,
electrical fencing or similar materials where abutting property located in a
Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (C)   Security fencing shall be provided an opaque screen on the exterior of
fencing wherever it is adjacent to a street or property in a Residential or
Mixed Use District.
   (D)   The use shall be located on a lot of at least ten acres if the
facility has beds for more than 100 inmates.
   (E)   The use will be located on a lot of at least five acres if the
facility has beds for 100 or fewer inmates.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.27) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.28 Day Care Home, Large and Small.
   (A)   A day care home must be clearly incidental to the residential use of
the dwelling and must not change the essential residential character of the
dwelling; all building and lot standards for residential dwellings shall be
maintained.
   (B)   No outdoor play shall be permitted after dark and care shall not be
provided on a twenty-four hour basis.
   (C)   The facility shall be staffed by persons residing in the dwelling in
which the day care is located except that up to one non-resident may report to
work at a day care home.
   (D)   The day care shall be located in a structure originally constructed as
and designed for a single-family dwelling which shall be the principal
structure on the lot. The structure shall not be altered in any manner which
diminishes its value as a single-family dwelling or which changes its exterior
residential character.
   (E)   The owner of the day care home shall reside on premises.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.28) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.29 Dormitory.
   (A)   In any Residential Zoning District, no more than two off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in the front yard.
   (B)   Off-street parking in the side and rear yards shall be screened in
accordance with parking lot landscaping and screening requirements. Parking
shall be placed on the lot in a manner designed to have the least physical
impact on adjoining residential uses.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.29) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.30 Fairgrounds, Flea Markets and Farmers Markets.
   (A)   Direct access to the site shall be provided by a major or minor
arterial.
   (B)   For fairgrounds only, fairgrounds hours of operation shall be no
earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later than 12:00 midnight.
      (1)   No ride or attraction will be closer than 200 feet of the closest
point of any abutting property located in a Residential District.
   (C)   For farmers markets only, farmers market hours of operation shall be
no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later than 7:00 p.m.
      (1)   No farmers market building or vendor area located in OSR will be
closer than 200 feet of the closest point of any abutting property located in a
Residential District.
      (2)   Farmers markets located in OSR will use Type B buffering when
located next to a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (D)   For flea markets, indoors only, all business activity must take place
inside a fully closed structure.
      (1)   No flea market structure located in OSR will be closer than 200
feet of the closest point of any abutting property located in a Residential
District.
      (2)   Indoor flea markets located in OSR will use Type B buffering when
located next to a Residential or Mixed Use District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.30) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.31 Freight Terminals.
   (A)   The area designated for truck parking shall be located no closer than
40 feet from an abutting street right-of-way.
   (B)   The area of truck parking shall be screened from view from the street
(s) and from all abutting properties by an opaque screen; wherever security
fencing is desired, it shall be placed on the interior side of the screening
materials.
   (C)   The use shall be located on or have direct access to a major or minor
arterial; truck terminals shall not be sited such that collector streets are
regularly traversed to access the larger capacity road.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.31) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.32 Funeral Homes.
   The proposed funeral home shall provide a semi-opaque screen, where abutting
property located in a residential District or a residential use in a commercial
or mixed-use District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.32) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.33 Gasoline Station, Large; Neighborhood.
   (A)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later
than midnight when this use abuts a residential use or a residentially zoned
lot. This restriction shall not apply where the use is separated from a
residential use or a residentially zoned lot by a major arterial street.
   (B)   Any accessory motor vehicle repair service shall store any wrecked,
partially dismantled or inoperative vehicles located on-site in an enclosed
building or in a separate motor vehicle storage yard which meets the
requirements of this article for outdoor storage.
   (C)   The overnight storage of all merchandise and vehicles shall be indoors
and all repair work and similar activities shall be conducted entirely within
enclosed structures.
   (D)   All fuel pumps shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from any adjacent
property line.
   (E)   All fuel pumps and canopies shall be located in the side or rear yard
only. On corner lots, fuel pumps and canopies located in side yards shall be on
the side of the principle structure located away from the street intersection.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.33) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.34 Group Homes, A or B.
   (A)   The zoning lot on which the group home or care facility is proposed
shall not be located within a one-half mile radius of a zoning lot containing
another such facility.
   (B)   Group homes or care facilities located in OSR will be subject to
additional conditions:
      (1)   Group homes and care facilities will use Type B buffering when
located next to a Residential District.
      (2)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point
of any abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.33) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.35 Habilitation Facility, A or B.
   (A)   Outdoor activity areas shall be located behind the front building line
in the rear yard or side yard only. If located in the side yard, a minimum side
yard setback of ten feet shall be observed. On corner or through lots, a
minimum 20-foot setback as measured from the abutting street right-of-way line
shall be required.
   (B)   All outdoor activity areas shall be surrounded by a fence or wall at
least four feet in height.
   (C)   Outdoor activities shall be permitted only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   At least one off-street passenger loading/unloading space separate
from required parking shall be provided for each 20 people enrolled.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.35) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.36 Heliport.
   (A)   Non-emergency use (i.e., uses other than for public safety or medical
purposes) of private heliports between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. is
prohibited.
   (B)   Landing pads for on-grade heliports shall be set back a minimum of 100
feet from any property line and 400 feet from buildings used for residential
purposes, public or private schools, hospitals or public parks. These distance
requirements may be reduced one foot for each one foot of the elevation above
ground level for elevated helistops.
   (C)   The helistop or heliport landing area shall be constructed of a
material free of dust and loose particles which may be blown about by the down
blast of the helicopter rotor.
   (D)   Lighting is to be provided according to Federal Aviation
Administration requirements and is to be oriented as much as possible away from
adjacent uses.
   (E)   An on-ground helistop shall be surrounded by a fence or other barrier
which prohibits access except at controlled access points. Adequate access for
fire and other emergency vehicles shall be provided to on-ground sites.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.36) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.37 Home Occupation.
   A home occupation is permitted accessory to any dwelling unit (except
manufactured housing) in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   The home occupation must be clearly incidental to the residential use
of the dwelling and must not change the essential residential character of the
dwelling.
   (B)   A home occupation conducted in an accessory structure shall be housed
only in a garage or other accessory structure typically associated with a
dwelling.
   (C)   The use shall employ no more than one person who is not a resident of
the dwelling.
   (D)   A home occupation housed within the dwelling shall occupy no more than
25% of the total floor area of the dwelling.
   (E)   There shall be no visible outside display of stock in trade which is
sold on the premises.
   (F)   There shall be no outdoor storage or visible evidence of equipment or
materials used in the home occupation, excepting equipment or materials of a
type and quantity that could reasonably be associated with the principal
residential use.
   (G)   Operation of the home occupation shall not be visible from any
dwelling on an adjacent lot, nor from a street.
   (H)   Only vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles will be permitted
in connection with the conduct of the home occupation.
   (I)   The home occupation shall not utilize mechanical, electrical or other
equipment which produces noise, electrical or magnetic interference, vibration,
heat, glare or other nuisances outside the dwelling or accessory structure
housing the home occupation.
   (J)   Home occupations shall be limited to those uses which do not draw
clients to the dwelling on a regular basis.
   (K)   Outdoor kilns used for the firing of pottery shall be provided with a
semi-opaque screen to obstruct the view from the street and from adjacent
properties located in residential Districts, shall have a secured work area and
shall be a minimum of ten feet from abutting property lines.
   (L)   No advertising signs shall be permitted.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.37) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.38 Kennel.
   (A)   Any structure which houses animals which is not fully enclosed shall
be located at least 100 feet from any lot line and 250 feet from a Residential
or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Any run located partially or wholly outdoors shall be located at least
100 feet from any lot line and 250 feet from a Residential or Mixed Use
District.
   (C)   A maximum of 12 dogs shall be permitted in outside runs.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.38) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.39 Landfill, Construction and Demolition.
   (A)   The actual fill area shall be located at least 300 linear feet from
any pre-existing principal residential structure and at least 50 feet from any
lot line. All other structures and facilities (except access driveways)
associated with the landfill shall be located at least 100 linear feet from any
lot line.
   (B)   Direct access to the site shall be provided by major or minor
arterials only.
   (C)   All access driveways which serve the site for ingress or egress shall
be wide enough to accommodate two lanes of traffic.
   (D)   Access to the site shall be controlled with gates, fences or other
suitable devices to prevent unregulated dumping.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.39) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.40 Landfill, Land Clearing and Inert Debris (LCID).
   (A)   On-site facilities.
      (1)   Fill activity must comply with all applicable federal, state and
local laws ordinances, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to,
zoning restrictions, flood plain restrictions, wetland restrictions, mining
restrictions and sedimentation and erosion control regulations.
      (2)   Any on-site LCID landfill must obtain a permit from and comply with
the standards of Davie County and the State of North Carolina.
      (3)   Fill activity is prohibited in the 100-year floodplain and any
wetland as defined in the Clean Water Act, § 404(b).
      (4)   Fill activity is prohibited within a drainage way unless the
drainage is piped in accordance with approved plans.
      (5)   Fill activity is prohibited within any utility easement.
      (6)   The owner of a landfill for the on-site disposal of land clearing
and inert debris shall file a certified copy of a record plat of the property
on which the landfill is located in the Davie County Register of Deeds' Office.
This record plat shall accurately show the location of the landfill and the
record owner of the land on which the landfill is situated.
      (7)   Driveway access to the facility must be paved and must directly
connect to a major or minor arterial, collector street or a minor non-
residential street.
      (8)   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner which prevents
dust from leaving the property.
      (9)   Any such landfill must be closed in an approved fashion within six
months of completion of construction or within twelve months of cessation of
construction, if the development project has not been completed.
      (10)   The location of any such landfill must be indicated on the
preliminary subdivision plan and the final subdivision plat. Further, any
parcel or lot which contains any part of any such landfill must have
notification of the existence and extent of the landfill recorded as part of
the deed for the lot or parcel.
      (11)   No portion of any such landfill may be located within 200 feet of
any property line which constitutes the external boundary of the project. This
includes structures, equipment storage, parking areas and fill areas, except
that access drives may cross this area.
      (12)   A Type A buffer shall be provided at the exterior property lines
and drive of the LCID site. Buffer requirements may be adjusted as necessary to
ensure adequate protection of public health and the environment.
      (13)   The approved Land Clearing and Inert Debris Landfill permit or
notification form issued by the North Carolina Department of Environment
Natural Resources, Division of Solid Waste Management shall be presented prior
to the commencement of fill activity.
   (B)   Off-site facilities (not located on active development sites).
      (1)   Fill activity must comply with all applicable Federal, State and
Local Laws ordinances, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to,
zoning restrictions, flood plain restrictions, wetland restrictions, mining
restrictions and sedimentation and erosion control regulations. (NCAC 15A.13B
.0560-.0566)
      (2)   Fill activity is prohibited in the 100-year floodplain and any
wetland as defined in the Clean Water Act, § 404(b).
      (3)   Fill activity is prohibited within a drainage way unless the
drainage is piped in accordance with approved plans.
      (4)   Fill activity is prohibited within any utility easement
      (5)   The owner of a landfill for the on-site disposal of land clearing
and inert debris shall file a certified copy of a record plat of the property
on which the landfill is located in the County Register of Deeds' Office. This
record plat shall accurately show the location of the landfill and the record
owner of the land on which the landfill is situated.
      (6)   Any facility which would operate for more than 24 months from the
time that activity begins shall not be permitted.
      (7)   No portion of any such landfill may be located within 200 feet of
any exterior property line. This includes structures, equipment storage,
parking areas and fill areas; access drives may cross this area but may not be
placed laterally through this area.
      (8)   The actual fill area must be located at least 300 feet from any
existing residential structure and at least 300 feet from any existing or
former off-site LCID or demolition landfill.
      (9)   Driveway access to the facility must be paved and must directly
connect to a major or minor arterial, collector street or minor non-residential
street.
      (10)   All unpaved areas shall be maintained in a manner which prevents
dust from leaving the property.
      (11)   Vehicular and pedestrian access to the site shall be controlled;
the site must be closed and secured during hours when filling activities are
not under way.
      (12)   Use of the site for any purpose is limited to the hours of 7:00
a.m. until 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, if the site adjoins or is across
the street from property located in a residential District.
      (13)   No filling of any kind is allowed in a regulated flood plain or
floodway fringe.
      (14)   A Type A buffer shall be provided at exterior property lines of
the LCID site. Buffer requirements may be adjusted as necessary to ensure
adequate protection of public health and the environment.
      (15)   The landfill operator shall be responsible for removal of any and
all debris, dirt or other materials which fall from trucks entering or leaving
the landfill from all adjoining streets on at least a weekly basis. Failure to
comply constitutes a violation of this article and may constitute grounds for
revocation of the operating permit.
      (16)   All driveways which serve the site must be wide enough to
accommodate two-way traffic at all times and an area on the site must be
provided to accommodate vehicles entering the site so that no traffic waiting
to enter the site will be backed up on any public right-of-way.
      (17)   A surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit in an amount to be
determined by the Town Manager, in consultation with the consulting engineer,
must be provided to ensure that any active landfill area will be closed in an
approved fashion. The amount of the bond will be based upon the maximum acreage
expected to be in use at any given time. No more than 25% of the total area to
be filled may be actively used at any one time.
      (18)   A reclamation plan shall be provided to show how the site will be
reclaimed upon the closing of the LCID landfill.
      (19)   The approved Land Clearing and Inert Debris Landfill permit or
notification form issued by the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Division of Solid Waste Management shall be presented prior
to the commencement of fill activity.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.40) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.41 Manufactured Home, Class A or B.
   (A)   All homes shall be oriented to ensure that the longer side is parallel
or as close as possible to the centerline of the public roadway, unless
otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   A permanent porch shall be placed on the front of each home which
measures at least six feet in width and a minimum of 24 square feet in area.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.41) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.42 Manufactured Home, Temporary.
   (A)   Temporary manufactured homes shall only be permitted for reasons of
personal hardship, defined as:
      (1)   A short-term medical emergency within the immediate family; and
      (2)   Cases of fire or destruction of a primary residence requiring
temporary relocation.
   (B)   Homes shall be permitted for a period not to exceed 24 months.
   (C)   All homes shall be placed on the lot in harmony with existing site
built structures.
   (D)   All homes shall have their entire perimeter enclosed from the ground
to the bottom of the structure with material manufactured for this purpose in
accordance with standards set by the State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes. Examples of commonly recognized building materials
suitable for use as underpinning shall include, but not be limited to, the
following list: brick masonry, concrete block masonry; natural or synthetic
stone masonry; or vinyl. Assemblies, products and materials manufactured
expressly for the purpose of underpinning shall be installed in accordance with
the manufacturers' specifications.
   (E)   The towing tongue shall be removed, under skirted or screened with
shrubbery. The shrubbery shall be of a height to ensure a total visual barrier
of the towing apparatus and maintained.
   (F)   The home shall be placed in a side or year yard only, but shall not be
located in a side yard that abuts a public street. The home shall meet all
setbacks for accessory structures in the District where located.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.42) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.43 Manufactured Home Park.
   (A)   Manufactured home parks shall be located on a minimum two acre tract
(with a minimum of three manufactured home spaces).
   (B)   Each park shall provide at least two parking spaces per home. Parking
spaces shall be at least feet from adjacent home spaces.
   (C)   A manufactured home shall be sited so that:
      (1)   It is located at least 25 feet from adjacent homes; and
      (2)   A minimum five foot setback from adjacent home spaces is
maintained.
   (D)   Each manufactured home park shall have located at its entrance,
perpendicular to the public road, a permanent non-lighted sign not to exceed 16
square feet and not less than 12 square feet, indicating the park name in a
minimum of six inch letters on both sides of the sign.
   (E)   Each proposed home space in a manufactured home park shall be clearly
marked by a permanent home space number sign or marker. The home space number
shall be of a size (numbers shall be at least three inches high), reflectivity
and color and in a location which is readily identifiable by emergency
personnel and inspectors. All home space numbers shall be consistent within a
park and must be approved by the town.
   (F)   Home spaces shall be properly staked.
   (G)   All homes shall have their entire perimeter enclosed from the ground
to the bottom of the structure with material manufactured for this purpose in
accordance with standards set by the State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes. Examples of commonly recognized building materials
suitable for use as underpinning shall include, but not be limited to, the
following list: brick masonry, concrete block masonry; natural or synthetic
stone masonry; or vinyl. Assemblies, products and materials manufactured
expressly for the purpose of underpinning shall be installed in accordance with
the manufacturers' specifications.
   (H)   The towing tongue shall be removed, under skirted or screened with
shrubbery. The shrubbery shall be of a height to ensure a total visual barrier
of the towing apparatus and maintained.
   (I)   All manufactured homes located adjacent to public streets shall be
oriented to ensure that the longer side is parallel or as close as possible to
the centerline of the public roadway, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (J)   Each park containing ten or more home spaces shall provide at least
one specifically designated passive recreational area equaling at least 200
square feet per home space.
   (K)   A permanent porch shall be placed on the front of each home which
measures at least six feet in width and a minimum of 24 square feet in area.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.43) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.44 Manufactured Home Subdivision.
   (A)   All lots shall be arranged and all homes oriented to ensure that the
longer side is parallel or as close as possible to the centerline of the public
roadway, unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Only Class A manufactured homes are permitted in manufactured home
subdivisions.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.44) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.45 Motor Vehicle Sales, Rental and Leasing.
   (A)   Motor vehicle sales, lease and rental lots shall front on a major or
minor arterial. Drive-in service windows and service processing, stacking and
circulation lanes are prohibited in the established front setback of the
principal building and within 75 feet of the right-of-way in a principal
building's side yard that abuts a major or minor thoroughfare. On-site stacking
lanes for drive-in service windows shall be a minimum of 200 feet in length if
accessed directly from a thoroughfare or minimum of 100 feet if accessed
directly from a street of lesser capacity.
   (B)   All signs on the site shall conform to the standards of this article.
Non-conforming signs, if present anywhere on the site, shall be removed prior
to issuance of a change of use permit, issuance of grading permit or
commencement of new construction on the site.
   (C)   Vehicles for sale or lease may be displayed in the established front
yard under the following conditions:
      (1)   All new display areas must be paved with a decorative paving
material; and
      (2)   No vehicle shall be displayed within 15 feet of the street right-
of-way; and
      (3)   A strip averaging eight feet in width, but in no case less than
five feet in width, located in the area of the lot between the street right-of-
way and the vehicle display area shall be heavily landscaped with evergreen
shrubs and flowering plants which are suitable for this climate and the growing
conditions present on the site. A recommended plant list for shrubs is
available from the Davie County Planning Department. This strip shall be
immediately adjacent to the vehicle display area. The number of plantings may
be reduced if used in conjunction with and placed on the street side of an
opaque, decorative wall at least two and one-half feet in height. This
requirement is in addition to any other screening requirements established by
this article.
   (D)   Outdoor storage of vehicles in process of repair and vehicles for sale
or lease that are in the process of dealer preparation for buyer/lessee pick up
are permitted as follows:
      (1)   The storage areas are exempt from the interior landscaping
requirements for parking lots. However, the perimeter landscaping requirements
of parking lots shall apply to the storage areas.
      (2)   The storage areas may only be located behind the principal building
and/or its accessory buildings and shall not be placed within 100 feet of any
property line that abuts a thoroughfare or local public street.
   (E)   Businesses are prohibited from using amplified speaker/public address
systems, except within fully enclosed building(s).
   (F)   Outdoor lighting shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The maximum height for lighting (pole mounted and wall mounted)
shall be twenty feet, including the base/mounting fixture;
      (2)   Floodlights are not permitted for parking lot illumination;
      (3)   Lighting shall be directed downward and light spillover minimized
with the use of hoods and similar devices; and
      (4)   Lighting fixtures that produce glare visible from adjacent property
(s) and public rights-of -way are prohibited.
   (G)   No vehicle sales/lease lot located within the Neighborhood Center
District shall exceed one acre in size.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.45) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.46 Motor Vehicle Repair and Maintenance.
   (A)   The lot containing the use shall be located at least 200 feet from any
residential use or residentially zoned lot.
   (B)   A motor vehicle repair, service, body or paint shop which has wrecked,
partially dismantled or inoperative vehicles located on-site shall store these
vehicles in an enclosed building or in a separate motor vehicle storage yard
which meets the requirements of this article for the yards.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.46) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.47 Motor Vehicle Storage Yard.
   (A)   A motor vehicle storage yard created or expanded after the adoption
date of this article shall have an enclosed storage area not exceeding one
acre.
   (B)   The minimum lot size for a motor vehicle storage yard will be three
contiguous acres.
   (C)   No repair work shall be done on motor vehicles while stored in the
storage yard. No parts or other articles may be removed from the vehicles,
except for security purposes, nor shall any parts or articles be sold. The sale
of whole vehicles shall be permitted only to satisfy a mechanics lien or by
order of a law enforcement agency.
   (D)   (1)   Fencing shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from public
street rights-of-way.
      (2)   Fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet high and opaque.
      (3)   Facility shall be separated by a Type B landscape buffer from any
abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (E)   Vertical stacking of motor vehicles is prohibited.
   (F)   Any gasoline, oil or other materials spilled or collected on site
shall be contained and disposed of in accordance with state and federal laws.
   (G)   Tractor trailers, tankers and/or any vehicle carrying a hazardous
material shall be stored only in motor vehicle storage yards located in the SP
or GI Districts. A motor vehicle storage yard which stores a tanker which has
contained a hazardous substance shall be enclosed by a minimum ten- foot high
fence which shall be locked during non-operation hours. In addition, a spill
containment structure certified by a registered professional engineer as being
adequate for spill containment is required. No tanker shall be stored closer
than 300 feet from any Residential Zoning District or lot containing a legal
conforming residential use.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.47) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.48 Nursery, Lawn and Garden Supply Store, Retail.
   (A)   Up to two storage containers/trailers are permitted to be placed on
the lot.
   (B)   Where permitted as a principal use on a lot, the area of storage for
live plants shall be no closer than ten feet from an abutting street right-of-
way and the area of storage for all other items shall be no closer than 40 feet
from an abutting street right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.48) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.49 Nursing Care Institutions and Congregate Care Facilities.
   (A)   Any facility which is licensed to have more than 50 residents shall
maintain a side setback of at least 20 feet and a rear setback of at least 40
feet when the side or rear yard is in or abuts a residential District.
   (B)   Driveway access to accessory structures shall be through the main
entrance to the facility.
   (C)   Accessory structures shall be arranged to provide for adequate on-site
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Any portion of a building, which contains living areas, shall be set
back a minimum of 15 feet from internal driveways and parking areas. This
standard shall only apply to the living areas of buildings which contain a
mixture of uses such as offices, storage and living areas.
   (E)    Any building greater than 10,000 square feet or one story in height
shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any adjoining property lines and include a
Type A buffer. The setback shall be increased five feet for each additional
5,000 square feet over 10,000 square feet and increased ten feet for each story
above one when the building is adjacent to a residentially zoned lot.
   (F)   Acceptable materials for additions and new construction include wood,
brick, stone, stucco, vinyl and similar materials designed to give the exterior
a residential appearance. Under no circumstances shall metal siding, not
intended to mimic traditional wood siding used on residential structures or
unfinished concrete block be permitted.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.49) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.50 Outdoor Display and Sales of Merchandise.
   All display and sales of merchandise shall be conducted completely within
enclosed buildings, except where expressly permitted below:
   (A)   Outdoor seating for restaurants; provided that, such:
      (1)   Shall not be located in any street right-of-way;
      (2)   Shall be permitted only along the business' tenant bay or
storefront facade; and
      (3)   Shall not block the entrance to the business or building.
   (B)   Outdoor display or sales of merchandise accessory to a principle use;
provided:
      (1)   Shall not be located in any public street right-of-way;
      (2)   Shall be permitted only along the business' tenant bay or
storefront facade;
      (3)   Shall not block the entrance to the business or building;
      (4)   Shall not exceed 10% of the gross floor area of each non-related
and separately operated use; and
      (5)   The display area shall be shown on the site plan prior to a
certificate of occupancy.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.50) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.51 Outdoor Storage.
   (A)   Items must be placed within an enclosed building or approved outdoor
storage area at the end of each business day.
   (B)   Up to two storage trailers are permitted to be placed on a single lot
or in conjunction with a single principal use.
   (C)   Only vehicles and equipment awaiting or in process of repair which are
not visibly damaged or are not used or intended to be used as "parts" vehicles
shall be permitted.
   (D)   Where permitted as an accessory use in conjunction with a building,
the area of storage shall not be placed in any front yard or side yard abutting
a street.
   (E)   Where permitted as a principal use on a lot, the area of storage shall
be no closer than 25 feet from an abutting street right-of-way.
   (F)   All areas established for outdoor storage, including security fencing
of the areas, shall be screened from view from the public street(s) and from
all abutting properties by an opaque screen a minimum of six feet in height.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.51) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.52 Parking Lot or Deck.
   Parking lots and decks not accessory to a building on the same development
site shall meet all requirements elsewhere herein for the uses, except that
   (A)   Parking lots may be constructed up to the prevailing established
setback line in developed areas or the required setback line in undeveloped
areas. In developed areas the prevailing setback line shall be determined by
existing structures lying within 300 feet in either direction on the same side
of the same street as the proposed parking lot. If the proposed parking lot
lies at a street intersection, the prevailing established setback shall be
determined for both the fronting street and any abutting side street in the
same manner.
   (B)   Parking decks shall, to the maximum extent practicable, meet the
design standards for buildings.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.52) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.53 Reserved.
§ 8-3.8.54 Progressive Care Community.
   (A)   Accessory buildings shall only include accessory dwellings containing
no more than four dwelling units, recreation centers and similar facilities,
dining halls and maintenance buildings. All other buildings shall be principal
buildings the use of which shall be for congregate or nursing care.
   (B)   Driveway access to accessory structures shall be through the main
entrance to the community.
   (C)   Structures shall be arranged to provide for adequate on-site vehicular
and pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Paved walkways shall be provided between accessory dwellings, the
principal building and all common facilities such as dining halls and
recreation centers.
   (E)   All lease/sale arrangements for accessory dwellings shall be under the
direct control of the management company responsible for the progressive care
community.
   (F)   Principal and accessory buildings shall be predominately designed and
constructed with architectural features common to residential structures
including, but not limited to, the following features: roof pitch, facade
material and size, type and placement of windows and doors. Acceptable
materials for additions and new construction include wood, brick, stone,
stucco, vinyl and similar materials designed to give the exterior a residential
appearance. Under no circumstances shall metal siding, not intended to mimic
traditional wood siding or unfinished concrete block be permitted.
   (G)   Any building greater than 10,000 square feet or one story in height
shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any adjoining property lines and include a
Type A buffer. The setback shall be increased five feet for each additional
5,000 square feet over 10,000 square feet and increased ten feet for each story
above one when the building is adjacent to a residentially zoned lot.
   (H)   No site shall have a density greater than ten units per acre for
accessory residential dwellings. For the purposes of calculating density all
land lying underneath and within 20 feet of any congregate care or nursing care
facility and all loading/unloading, garbage collection and parking areas
associated with congregate care or nursing care facilities shall be excluded
from the total acreage.
   (I)   A minimum of five acres shall be required. All land used for the
progressive care community shall be contiguous and shall not be divided or
transected by public roads, private roads granting easement(s) to tracts of
land not included within the community or natural features which would visually
and functionally divide the development, including, but not limited to,
preventing the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (J)   All structures are limited in occupancy to persons aged 62 years or
older, the physically handicapped and their spouses except for rooms or units
occupied by resident staff personnel performing duties directly related to the
operation of the facility.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.54) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.55 Raceways and Drag Strips.
   (A)   The use shall be located on a lot of at least 40 acres.
   (B)   Vehicular access to the use shall be provided only by way of a major
or minor arterial.
   (C)   (1)   A minimum separation of 100 feet, fully vegetated Type A
landscape buffer, shall be provided between the fenced use area and any
abutting property line.
      (2)   The minimum separation shall be increased to 200 feet when the
property is located next to a Residential District.
   (D)   Existing vegetation shall be preserved to the extent practicable and
supplemented with new plantings as may be required to provide a year-round
opaque buffer from abutting properties.
   (E)   The site shall be screened from the street(s) by a masonry wall or a
solid wood fence, planted on the exterior side with a semi-opaque vegetative
screen with expected height of at least 8 feet at maturity; if security fencing
of chain link or similar material is provided, it shall be placed on the
interior side of the vegetation and wall or fence.
   (F)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:00 a.m. Monday to
Saturday or 12:00 p.m. Sunday and no later than 11:00 p.m.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.55) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.56 Recreational Facilities, Golf Courses and Driving Ranges.
   (A)   Hours of operation of public or private recreational facilities, golf
courses and driving ranges will be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than
11:00 p.m. for uses located in or abutting a residential District.
   (B)   All outdoor swimming facilities shall be located at least 100 feet
from any adjoining residentially zoned lot.
   (C)   Private recreational facilities located in a Residential Zoning
District shall be open to members of the club and their guests only.
   (D)   Membership in private recreational facilities located in Residential
Zoning Districts shall be open to residents of the immediate area only.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.56) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.57 Recreation Services, Indoors and Outdoors.
   (A)   Service areas will be separated by a Type A landscaping buffer from
the view from any street and from abutting properties.
   (B)   Chain link and similar fencing materials, if used, shall be planted on
exterior side with evergreen shrubs minimum three feet in height and six feet
on center at installation.
   (C)   Outdoor lighting associated with outdoor recreational facilities shall
not shine directly into yards of a residential use nor into the windows of a
residential structure.
   (D)   Outdoor speaker systems shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later
than 11:00 p.m.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.57) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.58 Recycling Center.
   (A)   A 50-foot side and rear yard buffer shall be required for any site
which abuts a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   No outdoor storage of goods to be recycled shall be permitted. All
such materials shall be enclosed within bins, buildings or storage containers.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.58) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.59 Residential Building, Duplex.
   Duplexes are permitted on corner or through lots in any Residential or Mixed
Use District according to the following standards:
   (A)   The entrances to each unit may face different streets.
   (B)   The dwelling shall meet the minimum front yard setback from both
streets upon which a unit faces.
   (C)   The lot shall have at least one and one-half times the minimum lot
area, if any, for the District in which it is located.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.59) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.60 Residential Building, Multi-family; Townhouse.
   (A)   Procedures for multi-family and townhouse developments. No multi-
family development is permitted unless the property on which the development is
to be built is first rezoned to Multi-Family Overlay Conditional District (MF-
O-CD).
   (B)   Standards for multi-family and townhouse developments in all
districts.
      (1)   Primary access to the development site shall be from a state or
town maintained street. The developer may be required to provide turn lanes and
other off-site transportation improvements to insure safe and adequate access.
      (2)   When located within 100 feet of a parcel zoned OSR, NR, or GR but
not MF-O, the design and appearance of multi-family dwellings must have similar
massing, height, roof pitch, and architectural features - including front
porches; cornice lines; horizontal lines of windows; and architectural
embellishments, such as: shutters, dormers, belvederes, chimneys, etc., to
create, to the maximum extent practicable, the appearance of single-family
dwellings. This standard is voluntary for dwellings permitted under the North
Carolina Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
      (3)   On small infill development sites in the NR Districts, multi-family
buildings shall be designed to blend in with surrounding single-family
residential buildings to the maximum extent practicable with regards to
building design, setbacks, driveway and garage design and location, porches,
and sidewalks. This standard is voluntary for dwellings permitted under the
North Carolina Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
      (4)   Site designs shall create a sense of "neighborhood" which includes:
         (a)   An internal vehicular circulation system reflective of a single-
family residential street system shall be used, as opposed to looped systems,
whenever practicable, whenever the proposed development includes private
streets or drives.
         (b)   Buildings shall be sited with front entrances and porches
oriented toward streets, drives, and plazas, rather than clustered around
parking lots.
         (c)   Parking lots shall be located behind buildings or screened from
view from streets, except where it is deemed appropriate to use a parking lot
as a buffer from an arterial street.
         (d)   Walkways shall connect all buildings with parking areas, play
areas, clubhouses, and existing public sidewalks adjacent to the development
site.
         (e)   Plazas, clubhouses, pools, and recreational facilities shall be
centrally located, when provided.
      (5)   Building designs that create variety and do not look monotonous if
replicated throughout the development shall be required. These standard is
voluntary for dwellings permitted under the North Carolina Residential Building
Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings. Such designs shall include the
following:
         (a)   Side and rear building elevations, garages, carports, and all
accessory structures shall have the same level of design, aesthetic quality,
and architectural detailing.
         (b)   Porches, varied rooflines, and varied facade depths shall be
provided to create variety and individuality of each dwelling within the
building.
         (c)   Windows and projecting wall surfaces shall be used to break up
larger wall surfaces, establish visual interest and provide visibility of the
street and other public spaces encouraging social interaction.
         (d)   Protective entry courts, common vestibules, covered breeze ways,
or enclosed stair halls shall be used to reduce the number of visible doors,
unless designed in a row house or townhouse manner oriented toward the street.
         (e)   Garages shall be designed to be integrated with the building
design or sited so as to avoid long monotonous rows of garage doors and
building walls. Garages shall be oriented so that they do not visually dominate
the building facade or the streetscape.
   (C)   Standards for multi-family and townhouse developments located within
the MF-O District.
      (1)   Open space shall account for a minimum of 25% of the total land
area of the development site (note: Watershed regulations may require more
pervious coverage.) For the purpose of this section, open space may include
wooded areas, yards, playgrounds, and other active recreation space.
      (2)   Private active recreation space shall be provided for all complexes
containing more than twenty dwelling units at the rate of 100 square feet per
dwelling unit. Such space may also count towards the unobstructed open space
requirements outlined in subsection (C)(1) above. Recreation space shall be
designed to reduce any impact of night lighting or noise on nearby dwelling
units located on or adjacent to the site. Said areas shall be developed and
maintained in a neat and orderly condition in order to provide a safe,
healthful, and attractive living environment. Common recreational areas shall
be easily accessible by pedestrian walkways so they can be conveniently and
safely reached and used. Furthermore, common recreational areas shall be
constructed on substantially flat (no more than 5% grade) land which is well
drained and otherwise capable of serving the purposes intended. No streets,
access easements, rights-of-way, parking areas, or required buffer shall be
used or counted towards the required recreational space.
   (D)   Standards for multi-family developments located within the NR
District.
      (1)   All buildings shall be constructed to mimic single family or duplex
residential dwellings in design, materials, and orientation to the street to
the maximum extent practicable. This standard is voluntary for dwellings
permitted under the North Carolina Residential Building Code for One- and Two-
Family Dwellings.
      (2)   No more than four units per building shall be permitted.
      (3)   The entrances to each unit in the building may face different
streets.
      (4)   The building shall meet the minimum front yard setback from each
street upon which a unit faces and shall meet all other applicable setbacks for
the district in which it is located.
      (5)   Open space shall account for 30% of the total land area of the
site. Such space shall be used to provide active recreational facilities for
the site.
      (6)   Any front or side yard off-street parking shall be designed in
scale and appearance to mimic parking for single-family or duplex residential
dwellings.
      (7)   Common parking facilities shall be screened from the property line
exterior to the development site and shall not be visible to adjacent single-
family parcels. Such parking facilities shall not be designed for more than 12
parking spaces and shall not be closer than 100 feet to another such parking
facility.
      (8)   A Type B Buffer shall be required to be planted along the perimeter
of the site.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.60) (Updated 2009) (Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 8-3.8.61 Sanitary Landfill.
   (A)   The use shall be located on a lot of at least 50 acres.
   (B)   All land filling operations and off-street parking and service areas
shall be separated by a 100 foot buffer from all adjacent properties and
shielded from view of a public street by an opaque screen.
   (C)   No structure or land filling operation will be located within 100 feet
of any property line nor within 200 feet of abutting property located in a
residential District or developed for residential or mixed use.
   (D)   Vehicular access to the proposed use shall be provided by an arterial.
   (E)   There shall be a general timetable indicating the development phases
and projected life expectancy of the landfill.
   (F)   There shall be a detailed plan for the re-use of the property, after
landfill operations cease that is not in conflict with the objectives of the
most detailed plan approved for the area.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.61) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.62 Schools, Elementary and Secondary, Including School Stadiums.
   (A)   Accessory and incidental buildings shall be placed within established
rear yards and side yards that do not abut a street.
   (B)   Where chain link and similar fencing material are installed in an
established yard abutting a street, the fencing shall be planted on the
exterior side with evergreen shrubs minimum three feet in height (expected
height at maturity minimum six feet), six feet on center at installation.
   (C)   Schools shall be located on streets sized to accommodate traffic
volumes of background uses plus the additional traffic projected to be
generated by the school(s).
   (D)   Senior high schools shall be on a lot which abuts an arterial and
primary vehicular access shall be provided from the arterial.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.62) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.63 Schools, Vocational and Professional.
   (A)   Schools shall be located on streets sized to accommodate traffic
volumes of background uses plus the additional traffic projected to be
generated by the school(s).
   (B)   Accessory and incidental buildings shall be placed within established
rear yards and side yards that do not abut a street.
   (C)   Where chain link and similar fencing material are installed in an
established yard abutting a street, the fencing shall be planted on the
exterior side with evergreen shrubs minimum three feet in height (expected
height at maturity minimum six feet), six feet on center at installation.
   (D)   Truck driving schools shall be allowed as an accessory use to a
vocational or professional school.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.63) (Updated 2009) (Amended 8-5-2014)
§ 8-3.8.64 Services B, Business.
   All storage, repair and maintenance of equipment shall occur inside an
enclosed building or shall be restricted to the rear yard and screened entirely
from the view of adjacent lots and public streets.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.64) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.65 Storage and Salvage Yards.
   (A)   No dismantling, disassembling, salvaging, wrecking or processing
operation on the premises shall be carried on between the hours of 9:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   Any gasoline, oil or other materials spilled or collected on the site
shall be contained and disposed of in accordance with state and federal laws.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.65) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.66 Wireless Ttelecommunications Facilities.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section to facilitate the
deployment of necessary telecommunication services that are the least visibly
intrusive type of installation that is not proven to be commercially or
technologically impracticable and that will effectively prohibit the applicant
from accomplishing its intended goal(s).
   (B)   Siting hierarchy and preferences. The following list indicates the
town's preferences for facility locations, in descending order of preference:
      (1)   Antennae co-location on an existing tower;
      (2)   Concealed (stealth) antennae on existing building/structure;
      (3)   New concealed (stealth) tower 50 feet in height or less;
      (4)   Building mounted antennae;
      (5)   Small wireless collocation meeting standards of division (E) below;
      (6)   Small and micro wireless facilities;
      (7)   New concealed (stealth) wireless facilities over 50 feet in height;
      (8)   Building-mounted wireless support structure with antennae;
      (9)   New freestanding non-stealth wireless facilities (monopoles).
   (C)   What information the town may consider in evaluating applications.
      (1)   When considering applications for wireless facilities, the town
shall comply with the requirements of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3,
"Wireless Telecommunications Facilities," the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
as amended (specifically 47 U.S.C. § 332 and § 1455), and the Reports and
Orders of the Federal Communications Commission, including 09-99 and 14-153.
      (2)   When considering a permit application for a wireless facility, the
town shall not require information about and the permit-issuing authority shall
not consider the following:
         (a)   An applicant's business decisions about its designed service;
         (b)   Customer demand for an applicant's service;
         (c)   The quality of an applicant's service to or from a site;
         (d)   The radio frequency emissions that will be produced by the
facility.
      (3)   When considering an application for a wireless facility that
requires a special use permit, the permit issuing authority may consider the
following:
         (a)   Issues pertaining to public safety, aesthetics, landscaping,
structural design, setbacks, and fall zones;
         (b)   Information or materials directly related to an identified
public safety, zoning or other land development issue, including evidence that
no existing or previously approved structure can reasonably be used for the
antenna placement instead of the construction of a new tower; that residential,
historic, and designated scenic areas cannot be served from outside the area;
or that the proposed height of a new tower or initial antenna placement or a
proposed height increase of a modified tower (wireless support facility),
replacement tower, or collocation is necessary to provide the applicant's
designed service; and
         (c)   For permit applications for new wireless facilities, whether it
is reasonably feasible to collocate new antennas and equipment on an existing
structure or structures within the applicant's search ring. Collocation on an
existing structure is not reasonably feasible if the applicant shows by
verifiable technical evidence that the collocation is technically or
commercially impractical or the owner of the existing structure is unwilling to
enter into a contract for such use at fair market value.
   (D)   Additional approval standards and processes.
      (1)   For all wireless telecommunication facilities.
         (a)   Abandonment.
            1.   Wireless services providers are required to remove an
abandoned wireless facility within 180 days of abandonment. Should the wireless
services provider fail to timely remove the abandoned wireless facility, the
town may cause such wireless facility to be removed and may recover the actual
cost of such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless services
provider. For purposes of this division, a wireless facility shall be deemed
abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless services provider
indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days
after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless
the wireless services provider gives the town reasonable evidence that it is
diligently working to place such wireless facility back in service.
            2.   This section applies to rights-of-way controlled by the N.C.
Dept. of Transportation and the town.
         (b)   Prior to erecting a telecommunications tower or antenna or
accessory communication facility or installing same on any structure, any
builder, user, carrier and the like, shall submit documentation that the
telecommunications tower or antenna or accessory communication facility will
meet the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards and applicable
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) regulations and comply with all other federal, state and local laws and
regulations.
         (c)   Replacement or alteration of non-conforming telecommunications
towers or antenna. Non- conforming telecommunications towers or antennae or
accessory communication facility shall be treated the same as any other non-
conforming use under this article.
         (d)   Color and lighting. The entire wireless telecommunications
facility must be aesthetically compatible with its environment. If not stealth
facilities, towers should be of a color that will blend with the surroundings.
Example: brown/green/gray. Telecommunications towers, antennae and accessory
communication facilities shall not be artificially lighted, except where
otherwise required by the FAA, FCC or other federal or state agencies. Where
the agencies allow a choice between painting the tower or installing lighting,
painting shall be the choice selected.
      (2)   Stealth antenna; stealth wireless telecommunications facilities.
         (a)   Security fencing shall not be required for accessory
communication facilities.
         (b)   Stealth wireless support structures located within non-
residential zoning districts shall have a minimum setback from the base of the
wireless support structure to the lot boundaries equal to 80% of the height of
the wireless support structure or equal to the minimum structure setback
otherwise required by this article, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Setback in residential districts. The stealth antenna and
wireless support structure shall be setback the distance required for the use
being mimicked. For example, an antenna discussed as a steeple shall be set
back the distance required for churches.
      (3)   Monopoles greater than 50 feet in height.
         (a)   No new wireless telecommunication facilities may be established
if there is space available on an existing communications tower within the
geographic area that the proposed tower is to serve.
         (b)   No equipment, mobile or immobile, not used in direct support of
the transmission or relay facility shall be stored or parked on the site unless
repairs to the facility are being made.
         (c)   An opaque screen expected to reach a minimum of eight feet in
height at maturity shall be planted around the perimeter of the area occupied
by the tower, security fencing and auxiliary uses such as parking. In addition,
existing on-site trees and other vegetation shall be preserved to the extent
practicable to maintain the entire site of the tower (including any anchoring
devices) in its pre-construction appearance.
         (d)   If a wireless support structure is located on a lot adjacent to
a lot or lots located in a Residential or Mixed-Use District, it must be
located at least 200% of the total constructed structure height from all
property lines adjacent to the Residential or Mixed-Use District(s).
         (e)   The maximum height of a wireless support structure shall be 180
feet.
         (f)   Wireless support structures shall be of a monopole construction
(lattice and guyed towers shall not be permitted).
         (g)   No signs or logos of any type shall be allowed on any
telecommunications tower at any time.
         (h)   Security fencing. There shall be minimum eight-foot high fence
installed and maintained by the owner of the wireless telecommunications
facility around the perimeter of the wireless support structure compound.
         (i)   Setbacks in non-residential zoning districts. Except as provided
in division (3)(d) above, all wireless support structures located within non-
residential zoning districts shall have a minimum setback from the base of the
wireless support structure to the lot boundaries equal to 80% of the height of
the wireless support structure or equal to the minimum structure setback
otherwise required by this article, whichever is greater.
      (4)   Streamlined process for collocation applications. Qualified
applications for the collocation of wireless facilities shall be entitled to
streamlined processing. Streamlined processing means that the application shall
be reviewed for conformance with applicable site plan and State Building Code
requirements but that shall not otherwise be subject to zoning application
requirements or public hearing requirements. Streamlined processing shall be
completed within 45 days of the town's receipt of a completed application. The
town shall provide written notice that an application is incomplete within 30
days of the receipt of the application. (See Table 2 below for more deadlines.)
To qualify for streamlined processing, the new facility shall either:
         (a)   Not exceed the number of wireless facilities previously approved
for the wireless support structure on which the collocation is proposed and
meet all the other requirements of the original approval; or
         (b)   Meet the following requirements:
            1.   The collocation does not increase the overall height and width
of the tower or wireless support structure to which the wireless facilities are
to be attached;
            2.   The collocation does not increase the ground space area
approved in the site plan for equipment enclosures and ancillary facilities;
            3.   The wireless telecommunications facilities in the proposed
collocation comply with applicable regulations, restrictions, or conditions, if
any, applied to the initial wireless facilities placed on the tower or other
wireless support structure;
            4.   The additional wireless facilities comply with all federal,
state and local safety requirements; and
            5.   The collocation does not exceed the applicable weight limits
for the wireless support structure; or
            6.   The collocation is not a substantial modification.
   (E)   Exception for small and/or micro wireless facilities.
      (1)   The streamlined process described in division (D)(1) above is
available for small/micro wireless facilities meeting the definitions in §
8-3.10.3 if the facilities:
         (a)   Meet the height requirement of Table 1 and are located:
         (b)   In town-owned rights-of-way; or
         (c)   Outside of the rights-of-way on property that is not zoned
Historic District, General Residential, or Neighborhood Residential.
 
Table 1: Small Wireless Facility Height Requirements
New, modified or replacement   Height of small wireless facility
utility pole town utility pole above utility pole, wireless      Total height
(height in feet)               support structure or town utility (in feet)
                               pole
50 above ground level          10 feet                           60
EXCEPTION for properties zoned Historic District, General Residential or
Neighborhood Residential, where utilities are underground: New modified or
replacement utility poles, town utility poles and wireless support structures
may be no taller than 40 feet.
 
      (2)   Exception to division (E)(1) above for small and/or micro wireless
facilities above, no application, permit or fee is required under the zoning
ordinance for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance; or
         (b)   The replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless
facilities; or
         (c)   Installation, placement, maintenance or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended between existing utility poles or town
utility poles; or
         (d)   Communication services providers authorized to occupy town
rights-of-way who are paying taxes under G.S. §§ 105-164.4(a), (4c) or (6).
      (3)   Town may deny an application for a small wireless facility only on
the basis that it does not meet any of the following:
         (a)   The town's applicable codes;
         (b)   Local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety,
objective design standards for decorative utility poles, town utility poles, or
reasonable and nondiscriminatory stealth and concealment requirements,
including screening or landscaping for ground-mounted equipment;
         (c)   Public safety and reasonable spacing requirements concerning the
location of ground-mounted equipment in a right-of-way; or
         (d)   The requirements of any Historic District.
      (4)   The application for a small wireless facility must include a sworn,
notarized attestation that the small wireless facilities collocated on utility
poles, town utility poles, or wireless support structures shall be:
         (a)   Activated for use by a wireless services provider to provide
service no later than one year from the permit issuance date, and
         (b)   Collocation shall commence within six months of the permit
issuance date; and
         (c)   If not, the permit may be revoked.
      (5)   (a)   Applicants for small wireless facilities may file a
consolidated application for no more than 25 separate facilities and receive a
permit for the collocation of all the small wireless facilities meeting the
requirements of this section. Town may remove small wireless facility
collocations from a consolidated application and treat separately small
wireless facility collocations:
            1.   For which incomplete information has been provided; or
            2.   That are denied.
         (b)   The town may issue a separate permit for each collocation that
is approved.
      (6)   Applications for small wireless facilities to be located in town
rights-of-way shall meet the requirements of
Chapter IX, Streets and Sidewalks.
   (F)   (1)   Schedule for permit review.
 
Table 2: Permit Review Schedule
                    Time to deem    Time to decision     Total time to decide
Facility requested  application     after application is (days)
                    complete (days) complete (days)
Collocation         45              45                   90
Small/micro
wireless            30              45                   75
collocation
New wireless
facility,
substantial
modification or     90              150                  150
small/micro
wireless facility
(not a collocation)
 
      (2)   Section
8-3.8.5, Table of Uses shall identify the type of permit required by zoning
district. All complete applications shall follow the procedural requirements of
the Development Ordinance subject to the following exception.
         (a)   A request for a special use permit will automatically be placed
on the agenda for the Board of Adjustment such that the 150-day shot clock may
be satisfied.
(Adopted 5-1-2018) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.8.67 Temporary Seasonal Uses and Structures, Including Seasonal Markets.
   The establishment of temporary sales lots for farmers markets, Christmas
trees and other seasonal agricultural products, plus related goods, are
permitted for up to a maximum of three months upon the issuance of a temporary
use permit by the Zoning Administrator. The following conditions shall apply.
   (A)   The storage of goods in or sale of goods from trailer(s) on the site
shall be prohibited.
   (B)   The use may only be located on a vacant lot or on a lot occupied by a
non-residential use.
   (C)   Off-street parking may be provided behind or to the side of the
established use, but not forward of the required front setback.
   (D)   On-site parking may be provided on a dust-free, pervious surface area
and need not comply with additional paving requirements.
   (E)   Recreational services, outdoors - recreational sportsman range.
      (1)   A “sportsman range” is any shooting match or contest in which
powder burning shot guns/bow and arrow are used and prizes are awarded for
markmanship in which the general public is invited to participate.
      (2)   No sportsman range shall be conducted without meeting the
following:
      (3)   Only shotguns may be used (#9 shot or smaller).
      (4)   All shooting shall be directed away from homes and streets.
      (5)   The design of the turkey shoot target area shall be reviewed and
approved by the Mocksville Police Department.
      (6)   Prior to the operation of any “sportsman range” a license must be
first acquired from the Mocksville Police Department. A license shall be issued
only after a written application is completed and filed with the Department
stating the name, age and address of the applicant and whether or not the
applicant has ever been convicted of a felony. No license shall be issued to a
minor or to a person who has been convicted of a felony.
      (7)   A vegetated berm or opaque fence shall enclose the firing area,
which is a minimum of eight feet in height to prevent the public view of the
activity.
      (8)   Back stops shall be constructed of material that will allow the
shot to penetrate but not pass through.
      (9)   Back stops shall be maintained at a height of four feet above the
target.
      (10)   All sportsman ranges shall be established with the firing line to
the target area perpendicular to and a minimum of 100 feet to a road right of
way.
      (11)   Firing stations/line shall be located a minimum of 250 feet from
any “residential lot line,” unless all firing would occur within a completely
enclosed resistant building.
      (12)   A 50-foot safety area shall be established around the target area.
This area shall be clearly marked to prevent entry within this area.
      (13)   All back stops shall be constructed a minimum of 500 feet from a
residence.
      (14)   There shall be two parking spaces provided per target/shooting
station.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eea2066ebb3d373a463d43322882a321fd144017/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1425.jpg]
      (15)   A sportsman range may operate only on Fridays and Saturdays
in the months of November and December and be limited to operate on two
additional weeks throughout the year.
      (16)   Hours of operation:
         (a)   Friday 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
         (b)   Saturday 1:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
      (17)   An outdoor sportsman range shall be properly posted from the
street and along the property boundary every 500 feet.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.67) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.68 Terminal, Freight.
   (A)   The area designated for truck parking and/or container storage
(including trailer storage) shall be located no closer than 50 feet from public
street right-of-way and no closer than 250 feet from a residential use or
residentially zoned lot unless separated by an arterial street or railroad
right-of-way.
   (B)   Truck parking areas are exempt from parking lot landscaping
requirements but shall be substantially screened from view from public streets
and from all abutting non-industrial properties by an opaque screen; wherever
security fencing is desired, it shall be placed on the interior side of the
screening materials.
   (C)   The use shall be located on or directly accessible to a major or minor
arterial, freeway or railroad right-of-way. Terminals shall not be sited such
that collector or neighborhood streets are regularly traversed to access a
larger capacity road or railroad.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.68) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.69 Theater, Drive-in.
   (A)   No part of the theater screen, projection booth or other building
shall be located closer than 500 feet to any Residential or Mixed Use District
or closer than 50 feet to any property line or public right-of-way.
   (B)   No parking space shall be located closer than 100 feet to any
residential District.
   (C)   The theater screen shall be placed perpendicular to a public street
   (D)   On-site stacking space shall be provided for a minimum of ten vehicles
awaiting admission.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.69) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.70 Tire Recapping.
   (A)   Up to two storage trailers are permitted in conjunction with the use.
   (B)   The area of storage shall not be placed in any front yard or side yard
abutting a street.
   (C)   The area of storage shall be no closer than forty feet from an
abutting street right-of-way.
   (D)   All areas established for outdoor storage, including security fencing
of the areas, shall be screened from view from any adjacent residential use or
residentially zoned lot by an opaque screen a minimum of six feet in height.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.70) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.71 Veterinary Services.
   (A)   Any structure which houses animals which is not fully enclosed shall
be located at least 100 feet from any lot line and 250 feet from a residential
use or lot located within a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Any run located partially or wholly outdoors shall be located at least
100 feet from any lot line and 250 feet from a residential use or lot located
within a Residential or Mixed Use District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.71) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.72 Waste Transfer Station.
   (A)   Recyclable materials from residential sources shall be limited to
tires, scrap metal such as lawnmowers and play equipment; white goods such as
refrigerators, clothes dryers and stoves; lead acid batteries; motor oil;
cardboard; and other recyclables of residential origin.
   (B)   The area of active use must be enclosed by a fence, not easily
climbable, from six to eight feet in height and the fence must be located at
least 25 feet from the public street right-of-way and 100 feet from abutting
property lines.
   (C)   A minimum separation of 100 feet, fully vegetated, shall be provided
between the fenced use area and any abutting property line; existing vegetation
shall be preserved to the extent practicable and supplemented with new
plantings as may be required to provide a year-round opaque buffer from
abutting properties.
   (D)   The site shall be screened from the street(s) by a screen composed of
a masonry wall or a solid fence, planted on the exterior side with a semi-
opaque vegetative screen with expected height of at least eight feet at
maturity; security fencing shall be placed on the interior side of the
vegetation and wall or fence.
   (E)   The active use areas of the site shall be separated by a 100-foot Type
A buffer from all adjacent properties and shielded by an opaque screen from all
public streets.
   (F)   The active use portions of the site will be entirely fenced with non-
climbable fencing material to a height of at least eight feet, which shall be
installed on the interior of the buffer and screen.
   (G)   No active area will be located within 100 feet of any property line
nor within 200 feet of abutting property located in a residential District or
developed for residential, institutional or mixed use.
   (H)   Vehicular access to the proposed use will not be provided by a minor
collector or neighborhood street and access roads to the site will connect
directly to a designated arterial.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.72) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.73 Planned Mixed Conditional Development (PMCD).
   (A)   Minimum size. A PMCD shall be located on a site containing at least
four contiguous acres.
   (B)   PMCDs do not have any listed or permitted or special uses in § 8.3.3.
Table of Uses. Rezoning to a conditional zoning district is required for each
development. The approved uses shall be listed as specific conditions approved
by the Board of Commissioners; PMCDs are primarily intended for single-family
developments. A minimum of 15% of the development shall be common open space. A
maximum of 20% of the total land of the development may be utilized for multi-
family or non-residential uses. The compatibility, location, and
appropriateness of any multi-family or non-residential uses proposed shall be
carefully considered. Those non-residential uses will be permitted with
conditions approved by the Board of Commissioners shall be reflected on the
conditional zoning district supplement issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Relationship to other applicable regulations. A PMCD shall be subject
to all applicable standards, procedures and regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   Maximum density. Proposed maximum residential density shall be
indicated in the PMCD application and the required site plan.
   (E)   Development standards. A PMCD shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Outside perimeter lot setback requirements. Any lot which adjoins
the outside boundary of the PMCD shall be considered an outside perimeter lot.
Internal streets are those contained within the boundary of the PMCD. Adjoining
streets are those not located within the PMCD but are adjacent to the outside
boundary of the PMCD. The following setbacks shall be required for outside
perimeter lots.
         (a)   Lots with access on an internal street. The rear yard setback
requirement of the existing zoning district in which the PMCD is proposed shall
be required.
         (b)   Lots with access on an adjoining street. The front yard setback
requirements of the existing zoning district in which the PMCD is proposed
shall be required.
         (c)   Corner lots with access either on an internal or adjoining
street. The front yard setback requirements of the existing zoning district in
which the PMCD is proposed shall be required on the adjoining street and the
front yard setback requirements allowed in the PMCD shall be permitted on the
internal street.
         (d)   Access drives. No loading space, parking space or access drive
to a parking space shall be permitted within any required buffer yard.
      (2)   Required parking.
         (a)   Off-street parking.
            1.   Off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with § 8-
3.4.4; except that, the parking requirements may be met through group parking
located on commonly owned land.
            2.   Additionally, any required parking spaces located between the
fronts of residential buildings and public rights-of-way or private access
easements shall be at least 20 feet in depth and shown on the PMCD site plan.
In no instances shall off-street parking spaces extend into public rights-of-
way or private access easements. All off-street parking shall be on an improved
surface constructed of concrete or asphalt.
         (b)   Special accommodations. Special accommodations for recreational
vehicles, including boats, may be provided in group parking areas. Such special
parking areas shall be designated and screened from adjacent residential uses.
      (3)   Private streets. Private streets are permitted in PMCDs at the
discretion of the Board of Commissioners. Where permitted, all streets shall be
built in accordance with the requirements of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways, with curb and gutter, shall serve as
minimum guidelines for design. However, public streets may be required to
ensure adequate street connectivity.
      (4)   Pedestrian access.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be provided on at least one side of all streets,
except when approved by the Town Board. Sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete, brick, or stone paving materials on a case- by-case basis or when
consistent with an adopted Town streetscape plan. Sidewalks shall be a minimum
width of five (5) feet. Vertical clearance along all sidewalks shall be at
least eight (8) feet.
         (b)   Pedestrian and other modes of non-vehicular movement shall be
provided.
      (5)   Lot dimensional requirements and spacing of structures. Lot and
setback dimensional requirements for individual lots within a PMCD are
flexible, except for a minimum ten-foot building setback from public rights-of-
way and private access easements. Minimum distances between single-family,
duplex and twin home structures shall be as follows:
         (a)   Front or rear facing front. The minimum distance between the
front wall of one structure and the rear wall of another structure, or the
front walls of structures oriented to face each other, shall be not less than
30 feet from one another.
         (b)   Rear facing rear. Dwellings oriented back-to-back shall be
subject to the following provisions:
            1.   The minimum distance between rear walls of the dwellings shall
be no less than 30 feet.
            2.   Accessory structures shall only be permitted in the
intervening space between principal dwellings oriented back-to-back or to the
rear yard of the principal dwelling.
            3.   Front facing side. The minimum distance between the front wall
of the structure and the side wall of another structure shall not be less than
16 feet to allow for fire lanes.
            4.   Side or rear facing side. The minimum distance between the
rear of a structure and side of another structure, or the minimum distance
between the side walls of structures, shall not be less than 16 feet to allow
for fire lanes.
            5.   Front loaded garages. All front-loaded garages shall be set
back no less than 20 feet from public rights-of-way or private access
easements.
            6.   Perimeter buffer. Where perimeter lots in PMCDs do not meet
the minimum lot area and dimensional requirements of the surrounding zoning
district(s), a minimum 30-foot buffer is required between these lots and the
adjacent Single-family Zoning District (The Single-family Zoning Districts are
OSR, OSR-C, NR, NR-C, TND, TNDCD, GR, and GR-C). The buffer shall contain a
minimum of four canopy trees, ten understory trees and 33 shrubs per 100 linear
feet. The planting material comprising the buffer shall be spread across the
width of buffer and not just planted in rows. The intent of this section is to
soften the appearance of the development and not necessarily screen it from
view. Shrubs shall be expected to reach a minimum height of 36 inches, and a
minimum spread of 30 inches within three years of planting. Understory trees
shall be a minimum of four feet high with a minimum caliper of one inch,
measured six inches above grade when planted. Canopy trees shall be a minimum
of eight feet in height and two inches in caliper, measured six inches above
grade, when planted. When mature, a canopy tree should be at least 40 feet high
and have a crown width of 30 feet or greater. A minimum of 25% of the
understory trees and 75% of the shrubs shall be evergreens. The preservation of
existing stands of trees and shrubs is strongly encouraged and can be credited
toward meeting this requirement if sufficiently demonstrated on the site plan
and accompanied by pictures. This buffer shall be located on commonly owned
land and shall be considered open space as described in division (E)(6) below.
Where any individual lot in the PMCD does not meet the dimensional and area
requirements of an abutting Single-family Zoning District, the buffer shall be
required along the entire length of the PMCD that abuts the existing
development.
      (6)   Common open space.
         (a)   Area. Common open space shall not be less than 15% of the total
development area. Open space shall be held in common ownership by a homeowner's
association, a private non-profit conservation entity or accepted by the town
as public open space.
         (b)   Limitations on flood hazard land as open space. Land within a
floodway or floodway fringe, as defined by FEMA, may be used to provide not
more than 50% of the required open space.
         (c)   Qualification. To qualify as open space, land shall be usable
for recreation purposes or shall provide visual, aesthetic or environmental
amenities and may not be occupied by streets, drives, parking areas, or
structures. At least 30% of the gross area (unless otherwise allowed by the
Board of Commissioners) dedicated (for open space) must be suitable for and
designed to be used as active recreation space (for example, walking trails,
ball fields, community swimming pools, playgrounds and the like).
         (d)   Access to open space. All property owners within the development
shall have access to open space by means of a public street or improved walkway
located in an easement at least 15 feet in width.
         (e)   Open space connectivity requirements. Where practicable, areas
of open space within a PMCD shall be connected. Separate areas of active open
space on site shall be connected by a sidewalk or pedestrian path consisting of
an all-weather surface. Open space in PMCDs shall adjoin open space in
neighboring parcels where practicable. If public parks or greenways are present
on adjacent sites, a pedestrian connection to these resources shall be made
from the PMCD.
         (f)   Maintenance of open space. Maintenance of the open space, as
shown on the approved plan, shall be required in perpetuity and shall be the
responsibility of the homeowner's association.
      (7)   Alternative compliance. Alternative compliance measures may be
proposed which vary from the strict application of the above requirements in
order to accommodate the unique character of the site or to utilize innovative
design. Alternative compliance may be granted by the Board of Commissioners
upon a finding that the proposed alternative fulfills the intent of this
chapter as well as, or better than would strict compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (8)   Architectural standards for residential dwellings. In order to
improve and maintain the quality of residential neighborhoods, protect the
investments of residents and promote the interests of the community as outlined
in the town's adopted land use plan, the developer may submit a list of
voluntary architectural standards to be incorporated throughout the PMCD to
planning staff with the application. Standards submitted may address the
following issues: roof pitch, building materials, foundation type and facing
materials, fences (front and rear), pools, accessory buildings, porches, decks,
articulation, garages and number and frequency of dwelling design.
      (9)   Parking areas, sidewalks, and commercial building entrances shall
be lit in order to contribute to the security of the property and to facilitate
the safe passage of persons using these areas after dark. However, measures
shall be provided to minimize light spillover onto adjacent properties and
glare toward motor vehicle operators.
      (10)   Outdoor lighting shall meet all of the following requirements: (1)
The maximum height for lighting (pole mounted and wall mounted) shall be 20
feet, including the base/mounting fixture; (2) floodlights are not permitted
for parking lot illumination; (3) lighting shall be directed downward and light
spillover minimized with the use of hoods and similar devices; (4) lighting
fixtures that produce glare visible from adjacent property(s) and public
rights-of -way are prohibited; and (5) light fixture designs shall meet the
approved specifications of the Town Center District.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.73) (Updated 2009) (Amended 11-7-2024)
§ 8-3.8.74 Recycling and Salvage Operation.
   (A)   A 50-foot side and rear yard buffer shall be required for any site
which abuts a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   All access/drives and parking lots are required to be paved with
asphalt or concrete.
   (C)   Site shall accommodate all traffic to site; parking or stacking of
vehicles on side of street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   No outdoor storage of goods to be recycled shall be permitted. All
such materials shall be enclosed within bins, buildings or storage containers.
   (E)   Hours of operation: no processing operation on the premises shall be
carried on between hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Monday thru Saturday.
   (F)   Open burning is prohibited.
   (G)   Any gasoline, oil or other materials spilled or collected on the site
shall be contained and disposed of in accordance with state and federal laws.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.8.74) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.8.75 Solar Energy Generating Facility.
   (A)   Solar energy generation structure shall not exceed a height of 15
feet.
   (B)   All equipment producing noise or sound shall be setback 100 feet from
any property line, if located adjacent to any residential dwelling unit. If the
facility is on a working farm where the primary residential structure of the
farm is on an adjacent lot, then this 100-foot setback will not apply to this
primary residential structure.
   (C)   All facilities located in the GI Zoning District shall meet the
setbacks of the underlying zoning district.
   (D)   All storage must be located indoors. No outdoor storage shall be
allowed.
   (E)   The facility shall be enclosed with a security fence with a minimum
height of eight feet.
   (F)   A Type D buffer shall be required. The buffer shall be located
adjacent to the property line and between the property line and the fence.
   (G)   No lighting shall be directed onto adjacent property. Flood lights or
other high-intensity lighting shall be prohibited.
   (H)   The solar facility shall be designed and located to avoid glare or
reflection onto adjacent properties and adjacent roadways, and shall not
interfere with traffic or create a safety hazard.
   (I)   A site plan, drawn and stamped by a North Carolina-licensed surveyor
or engineer, shall be submitted, showing the following:
      (1)   The location and dimensions of all proposed areas for the placement
of solar panels, screening/fencing and related improvements;
      (2)   Any preexisting structures on the same lot; and principal
structures on other properties that would affect the placement of solar panels;
      (3)   Parking and access areas;
      (4)   Location of any proposed solar access easements.
      (5)   Location where wiring is brought together for interconnection to
system components and/or the local utility power grid and the location of the
disconnect switch;
      (6)   Any proposed new structures; and
      (7)   Any other relevant elements as requested by staff.
   (J)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to remove all obsolete or
unused systems within 12 months of cessation of operations. A decommissioning
plan shall be submitted with the permit application. It shall be signed by the
party responsible for decommission and the landowner (if different), addressing
the following:
      (1)   Defined conditions upon which decommission will be initiated (i.e.,
end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, and the like);
      (2)   Removal of all non-utility-owned equipment, conduit, structures,
fencing, roads and foundations;
      (3)   Restoration of property to conditions prior to the development of
the facility;
      (4)   The time frame for completion of decommission activities;
      (5)   Description of any agreement (i.e., lease) with landowner regarding
decommissions;
      (6)   The party responsible for decommissioning;
      (7)   Plans for updating the decommissioning plan;
      (8)   Before final electrical inspection, the applicant shall provide
evidence that the decommissioning plan was recorded with the Register of Deeds.
   (K)   The Planning Director shall be provided copies of any lease agreement,
solar access easement, and a plan for removal of the system/equipment. All
other applicable local and state approvals shall be submitted as part of the
special use permit or zoning permit.
   (L)   The owner or future owner of the property on which a solar energy
generating facility is installed assumes all risk associated with diminished
performance of the system caused by any present or future adjacent structure or
landscaping that may interfere with the system's ability to produce power at
its rated capacity, regardless of when that adjacent structure or landscaping
is constructed or installed.
   (M)   Facilities are exempt from parking requirements if there is not a
building component.
   (N)   No more than 75% of a solar generating facility tract of property may
be covered with panels.
   (O)   Facilities shall be maintained and in good working condition and be
free from debris and nuisances.
   (P)   Any other conditions found necessary by staff or the Board of
Adjustment to meet the standards of this article.
(Adopted 8-5-2014)
§ 8-3.8.76 Electronic Gaming Operations.
   A zoning permit will be issued by the zoning administrator if the
application is complete and all of the following requirements are met:
   (A)   If food or beverage is served, the establishment must meet the
requirements of the Davie County Health Department, including any and all
necessary permits and/or licenses.
   (B)   The establishment must be a minimum of 1,000 feet from any schools,
day care, religious institution, park and building being used as a dwelling.
   (C)   The establishment must be a minimum of one-half mile from any other
establishment engaged in an electronic gaming operations business.
   (D)   For the purposes of this subsection and
8-3.8.76(c), the distance shall be measured in a straight line from the closest
point between the building housing the electronic gaming operation and the
building housing the dwelling or other electronic gaming operation.
   (E)   Electronic gaming operations are prohibited in or as part of any check
cashing facility.
   (F)   All games rooms/tables/devices shall be operated only on the ground
floor of a building.
   (G)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the windows or the entrance to the room where the electronic
gaming is played and the rear wall of the room. A clear view of the interior
from the entrance to the rear of the room must be maintained at all times.
   (H)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures where the
public congregates shall be permitted; provided, however, that, this shall not
be construed so as to prohibit the maintenance of closets used exclusively for
storage purposes, or of toilets.
   (I)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels, stairways
or other devices with any place where electronic gaming is.
(Adopted 10-3-2017; Amended 12-12-2019; Amended 1-7-2020)
§ 8-3.8.77 Warehousing, self-storage.
   (A)   Self-storage warehouse spaces shall be used for storage only. No space
shall be leased for any other purpose.
   (B)   All storage shall be located within the building, and outside storage
of any type, including the outside storage of moving vans, vehicles and boats
shall not be permitted.
   (C)   All driveways and parking areas between and around buildings shall be
paved with asphalt or concrete.
   (D)   Storage units shall not be visible off site, and access to individual
storage units shall be from corridors internal to the building.
(Adopted 9-4-2018)
§ 8-3.8.78  Micro-brewery, micro-winery, micro-distillery.
   (A)   No outdoor amplified sound will be permitted after 11:00 p.m. if
located within 500 feet of a residential use.
   (B)   No loading or distribution activities shall take place outside of the
enclosed building between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. when the
establishment is located within 500 feet of any residential or institutional
use.
   (C)   Food trucks and vendors may be located on-site. No vendor vehicles may
be parked in a front yard outside of operating hours.
   (D)   Production shall not exceed the thresholds set forth in §
8-3.10.3 Definitions, otherwise such facilities shall be classified as beverage
manufacturing under “Manufacturing B” and permitted accordingly.
   (E)   Agriculture accessory permitted micro-breweries or distilleries shall
not exceed ten acres in size.
(Adopted 3-12-2020) (Amended 6-2-2020)
§ 8-3.8.79 Studios (Art, Arts and Crafts, Dance, Music, Photographic).
   Studios allowed in OSR or NR will be subject to additional conditions:
   (A)   Type B buffering required when located next to a Residential District.
   (B)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later
than 9:00 p.m.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.80 Feed and Seed Stores.
   (A)   Feed and seed stores located in OSR will be subject to additional
conditions:
      (1)   Feed and seed stores will use Type B buffering when located next to
a Residential District.
      (2)   No structure shall be located within 300 feet of the closest point
of any abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 7:00 a.m. and no later
than 9:00 p.m.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.81 Asphalt and Concrete Plant and Contractors.
   (A)   Facilities shall be separated by a Type A buffer from any abutting
property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   No facility shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (C)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (D)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
developer prior to plant operations beginning.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.82 Building Material Salvage Yards, Scrap Metal Processing Yards.
   (A)   Yards created or expanded after the adoption date of this article
shall have an enclosed storage area not exceeding one acre.
   (B)   Fencing shall be set back a minimum of twenty-five feet from public
street rights-of-way and property lines.
      (1)   Fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet high and opaque.
   (C)   Yard materials and/or debris may not be in piles higher than six feet.
Vertical stacking of motor vehicles is prohibited.
   (D)   Any gasoline, oil or other materials spilled or collected on site
shall be contained and disposed of in accordance with state and federal laws.
   (E)   Yards shall be separated by a Type A landscape buffer from any
abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (F)   No yard shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of any
abutting property located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (G)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (H)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
developer prior to yard operations beginning.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.83 Meat Packing Plant.
   (A)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Fencing shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from public street
rights-of-way and property lines.
      (1)   Fencing shall be a minimum of eight feet high and opaque.
   (C)   Meat packing plants shall be separated by a Type A landscape buffer
from any abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (D)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (E)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
developer prior to meat packing plant operations beginning.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.84 Saw Mills.
   (A)   Facilities shall be separated by a Type A landscape buffer from any
abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (C)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (D)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
developer prior to saw mill operations beginning.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.85 Museum or Art Gallery.
   Facilities allowed in OSR or NR will be subject to additional conditions:
   (A)   Type B buffering required when located next to a Residential District.
   (B)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District.
   (C)   Hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no later
than 9:00 p.m.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.86 Public Works Facility.
   Public works facilities located in OSR will be subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   No structure shall be located within 200 feet of the closest point of
any abutting property located in a Residential District or Mixed Use District.
   (B)   Facility shall be separated by a Type A landscape buffer from any
abutting property located in a Residential or Mixed Use District.
   (C)   Concrete driveway aprons will be required at access points to town or
NCDOT roads.
   (D)   Access drives/roads will be brought up to town and NCDOT standards by
town prior to operations beginning.
(Adopted 3-5-2024)
§ 8-3.8.87 Group Care Facility A and B.
   (A)   Management. If not licensed by the state, group care facilities shall
have written operating procedures or manuals, established goals and objections
for persons receiving therapy or treatment, a structured system of management
with a board of directors, on premises management/supervisory personnel, and
admission standards that allow only residents that have a commitment and a
desire to adjust to society and are not dangerous to others as defined in state
law.
   (B)   Heated building area. One hundred square feet of heated building shall
be provided per resident.
   (C)   Limits on accessory production activities.
      (1)   Accessory production of goods shall occur only within the principal
structure.
      (2)   The area for production activities shall not exceed 25% of the
gross floor area of the principal structure.
   (D)   Spacing requirement.
      (1)   A group care facility shall not be located within one half mile
from any other group care facility.
      (2)   All measurements shall be made by drawing straight lines from the
nearest point of the lot line of the where the proposed group care facility is
to be located to the nearest point of the lot line of another group care
facility.
   (E)   Display of goods. No outside or inside display of goods is permitted
on the property.
   (F)   No retail sales. No retail sales shall occur in the group care
facility.
(Adopted 5-6-2025)
§ 8-3.8.88 Group Care Facility C..
   (A)   Management. The group care facility shall be licensed by the state and
operated by a non-profit corporation established pursuance to G.S, Ch. 55A.
   (B)   Heated building area. One hundred square feet of heated building shall
be provided per resident.
   (C)   Limits on accessory production activities. The area for production
activities shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the principal
structure.
   (D)   Spacing requirement.
      (1)   A group care facility shall not be located within one half mile
from any other group care facility.
      (2)   All measurements shall be made by drawing straight lines from the
nearest point of the lot line of the where the proposed group care facility is
to be located to the nearest point of the lot line of another group care
facility.
   (E)   Display of goods. No outside or inside display of goods is permitted
on the property.
   (F)   No retail sales. No retail sales shall occur in the group care
facility.
   (G)   Storage. All materials and equipment associated with this use and any
accessary uses, except for licensed motor vehicles, shall be stored inside a
building.
(Adopted 5-6-2025)
§ 8-3.9 ADMINISTRATION.
§ 8-3.9.1 The Staff.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
following powers and duties to be carried out in accordance with these
regulations which include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   To serve as staff to the Town Board, the Planning Board and the
Board of Adjustment with regard to their functions under these regulations and
to inform the bodies of all facts and information at their disposal with
respect to applications for amendments to the text of these regulations,
amendments to the zoning maps, appeals, variances, permit requests and any
other matters brought before them under this article;
      (2)   To maintain the text of these regulations and the zoning maps;
      (3)   To maintain development review files and other public records
related to the administration and enforcement of these regulations;
      (4)   To review applications for zoning permits filed under these
regulations;
      (5)   To recommend and comment on proposed amendments to these
regulations and to the zoning maps;
      (6)   To establish the rules of procedure and permit application forms as
are necessary and proper for the administration of their responsibilities under
these regulations;
      (7)   To determine street classifications not otherwise specified on the
adopted town Thoroughfare Plan; and
      (8)   To administer the water supply watershed protection regulations
contained herein including the following additional duties:
         (a)   To serve as staff to the Board of Adjustment when it is serving
in its capacity as the Watershed Review Board;
         (b)   To submit copies of all amendments upon adoption to the
Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section,
Division of Water Quality;
         (c)   To keep records of variances granted to the watershed
regulations. This record shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the
Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Water
Quality on or before January 1 of the following year and shall provide a
description of each project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting
the variance;
         (d)   To keep records of the town's utilization of the 10/70
provision, including any acreage allocated by the county to the town. The
records shall include the total acres of non-critical area eligible to be
developed under the 10/70 provision and individual records for each project
showing the following information: location, acres, site plan, use and total
allocation of the 10/70; and
         (e)   To monitor land use activities in the watershed to identify
situations that may threaten water quality. The Zoning Administrator shall
report these situations to the agency with direct regulatory responsibility for
these activities.
   (B)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer. The Zoning Enforcement Officer is
charged with enforcing the provisions of the zoning regulations as set out
herein except for enforcement duties specifically assigned to the Zoning
Administrator. If the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall find that any of the
provisions of this article are being violated, he or she shall notify, in
writing, the person responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and order that necessary actions be taken to correct the
deficiency. He shall order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings or
structures, removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being
done and shall take any other action authorized by this article to ensure its
compliance.
   (C)   The Technical Review Committee. The Technical Review Committee shall
be appointed by the Town Manager and shall meet when needed to discuss land use
issues and to review development proposals. The recommendations of the
Committee shall be forwarded to review boards by the Zoning Administrator for
their consideration in making decisions regarding rezonings, special use
permits, special exception permits and any other issue related to land use and
development as governed by this article within the zoning jurisdiction of the
town.
   (D)   The Town Manager. The Town Manager shall appoint the Zoning
Administrator, the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the Technical Review
Committee and shall have the authority to exercise any and all duties and
authorities assigned to such.
   (E)   (1)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a
direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff
member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person
with whom the staff member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest under
this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff
person or such other staff person as may be designated by the development
regulation or other ordinance.
      (2)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the local government, as determined by the local government.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.1) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.9.2 The Boards.
   (A)   The Planning Board. The Planning Board shall have the duties
prescribed by the town’s Code of Ordinances.
      (1)   All members shall, before entering their duties, qualify by taking
an oath of office:
            "I,_________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
maintain the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitution
and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of my office as __________, so help me God."
      (2)   Conflict of interest. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on
any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
      (3)   If an objection is raised to a board member's participation at or
prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote rule on the objection.
      (4)   In summary, those duties related to this article include, but may
not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   To prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update
and recommend to the Board of Commissioners a comprehensive plan, and such
other plans as deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data
collection, mapping, and analysis.
         (b)   To facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and
participation in the planning process.
         (c)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner.
         (d)   To advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the
implementation of plans, including, but not limited to, review and comment on
all zoning text and map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604.
         (e)   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement
of various means for carrying out plans that the governing board may direct.
         (f)   To provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi-judicial
decisions, provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as
a basis for the deciding board.
         (g)   To perform any other related duties that the governing board may
direct.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment of the town shall consist of
eight regular members who shall be the Mayor and Town Board of Commissioners
and one alternate members appointed by the Town Board and two extraterritorial
members appointed by the Davie County Board of Commissioners, of whom one shall
be an alternate member. All members shall, before entering their duties,
qualify by taking an oath of office:
            "I,___________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and maintain the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the
Constitution and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of my office as __________, so help me
God."
      (2)   Conflict of interest.
         (a)   A member of any board exercising quasi-judicial functions
pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial
matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional rights
to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations of due process
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to
hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
         (b)   If an objection is raised to a board member's participation at
or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority
vote rule on the objection.
      (3)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
         (a)   To hear and decide appeals according to the procedures of this
section, where it is alleged there is an error in any order, decision,
determination or interpretation made by the Zoning Administrator or Zoning
Enforcement Officer in the administration and enforcement of this article;
         (b)   To grant variances from the terms of this article according to
the standards and procedures prescribed herein;
         (c)   To grant special use permits for certain uses as specified in
the table of uses;
         (d)   To serve as the local Watershed Review Board as authorized and
prescribed in 15A NCAC 02B and these regulations; and
         (e)   A member of the Board or any other body exercising the functions
of a Board of Adjustment shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial
matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’ constitutional rights
to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts include, but are not
limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is
not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close
familial, business or other associational relationship with an affected person
or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter. If an objection is raised
to a member’s participation and that member does not recuse himself or herself,
the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
      (4)   Members from within the town limits. Each member and alternate
shall be appointed by the Town Board, or if a town elected official shall serve
consecutive three year terms while their term of office continues. Appointed
members and alternates serve for a term of three years.
      (5)   Extraterritorial members. Extraterritorial members shall have all
of the obligations and duties of the other members of the Board of Adjustment,
including rights to vote on all matters coming before the Board. Each
extraterritorial member shall be appointed for a period of three years.
Expiration dates for each term, beginning on January 1, 2023 initially and
thereafter, shall be December 31 of the year in which the term is to expire and
the term of office of the succeeding member shall begin on January 1; provided
further that, if the members are appointed such that their terms of office
begin prior to a January 1 date, the terms of original members shall be
extended by the period of time between their appointment and December 31, 2024
for the member whose term ends on December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2025 for
the member whose term ends on December 31, 2023. Eligibility for reappointment
shall be determined by the procedures and policies established by the Board of
Commissioners of the county. Membership of the Board will include a
proportional number of Extraterritorial Jurisdiction representatives as
required by G.S. § 160D-307(a).
      (6)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at
a regular place and time and shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question
or, if absent or failing to vote, an indication of the fact. Final disposition
of permits, appeals or variances shall be recorded in the minutes, indicating
the reasons of the board therefore, all of which shall become a part of the
public record.
      (7)   Quorum. No final action shall be taken on any matter unless a
quorum is present. For the purposes of granting variances, a quorum shall be
four-fifths of the full membership of the Board. For the purposes of conducting
other business related to the function of the board, such as hearing appeals,
considering permit applications, adopting or amending rules of procedure or
approving the agenda, appeals and special use permits, a quorum shall be a
simple majority of the full membership of the Board. For the purposes of this
subsection, vacant positions on the Board and members who are disqualified from
voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered “members of the
Board” for calculation of the requisite super majority if there are no
qualified alternates available to take the place of the members. Alternate
members, while attending any regular or special meeting of the Board and
serving in the absence or temporary disqualification of any regular member, or
to fill a vacancy pending appointment of a member, shall have and exercise all
the powers and duties of the regular member so absent.
      (8)   Administrative materials. The administrator or staff to the Board
shall transmit to the Board all applications, reports, and written materials
relevant to the matter being considered. The administrative materials may be
distributed to the members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same
time they are distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the appellant
or applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or
applicant. The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record. The administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic
form.
      (9)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the local government, and
any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S. § 160D-
1402(c) shall have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary
hearing. Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial
evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the Board.
      (10)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board. Objections to inclusion or
exclusion of administrative materials may be made before or during the hearing.
Rulings on all unresolved or new objections shall be made by the Board Chair at
the hearing. The Chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board.
      (11)   Appeals from a decision of the Board of Adjustment. Any person or
persons, jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the Board, may
within 30 days after the Board's decision, but not thereafter, present to the
Davie County Superior court a petition as defined in G.S. § 160D-1402, Appeals
in nature of certiorari.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners. The Town Board of Commissioners shall have
the following duties related to this article:
      (1)   To review and from time to time initiate changes to this article;
      (2)   To decide upon any application or request for amendment to this
article or the zoning maps;
      (3)   To take any other action not delegated to the Planning Board or
Board of Adjustment as the Board may deem desirable and necessary to implement
the provisions of this article; and
      (4)   A member shall not vote on any zoning map or text amendment where
the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a
direct, substantial and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.2) (Updated 2009) (Amended 11-5-2013; Amended 6-1-2021;
Amended 7-5-2022)
§ 8-3.9.3 Permits.
   (A)   Permit required. No building or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied and no building or structure shall be erected, expanded or moved until
a zoning permit as required by this article shall have been issued. The form
and content of the permit, when not expressly set out in this article, shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator and may include any information required
for the applicant to demonstrate an intent to comply with the zoning
regulations. Zoning permit forms shall be available at the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Permit type. Permits shall be required for any use by right, unless
specifically exempted by this article, special uses and special exceptions.
   (C)   Expiration of permit. Any zoning permit issued by the Zoning
Administrator shall become null and void after a period of six months from the
date of issuance of the permit unless a valid building permit has been issued
for the work authorized by the permit or, if a building permit is not required,
substantial work has not begun. Once a zoning permit has expired, construction
on the property in question cannot proceed until a new zoning permit has been
issued.
   (D)   Condition of approval. Zoning permits issued on the basis of site
plans, architectural renderings, landscaping plans and other information
submitted as part of the zoning permit application process authorize only the
use, arrangement, construction and change set forth in the approved plans and
applications. Use, arrangement, construction or change that differ from that
authorized by the permit shall be deemed a violation of this article.
   (E)   Right of appeal. If a request for a zoning permit from the Zoning
Administrator is disapproved or if a ruling of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
is questioned, the aggrieved party may appeal the ruling to the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with §
8-3.9.5.
   (F)   Site plan required. Site plans shall be required as part of the
application process for any of the following:
      (1)   New structures;
      (2)   Expansions to existing structures;
      (3)   Any new use not contained within an existing building, except:
         (a)   Agricultural uses which do not involve the construction of
buildings, containment pens for livestock, swine or poultry or the construction
of sediment or animal waste lagoons; and
         (b)   Temporary or seasonal uses unless the Zoning Administrator
cannot otherwise determine compliance with parking or screening requirements.
      (4)   Any change in impervious surface area on lots located within a
Watershed Overlay District; and
      (5)   Any significant change in required landscaping or buffer areas.
   (G)   Level 1 site plan requirements. A Level 1 site plan shall be required
for any single-family or duplex residential use, any use located outside of a
Watershed Overlay District that has a land use code of one, any change to an
existing use located within a Watershed Overlay District that does not affect
the land, any renovation or expansion to a civic use, church or similar non-
profit organization where the scope of work does not increase occupancy levels
or intensity of use or modify existing parking areas or circulation areas and
any other situation determined by the Zoning Administrator or review board to
require such a plan. A Level 1 site plan does not require the seal of a
professional engineer, architect, landscape architect or surveyor, but shall
consist of the following elements, except that the Zoning Administrator has the
authority to waive any application requirement where the proposed type or scale
of use makes that information unnecessary or impractical.
      (1)   Graphic materials required for plans. Level 1 site plans shall be
sketched on a map of the property that is drawn to scale.
      (2)   Conditions on the site. Level 1 site plans shall show existing and
proposed features of the site including proposed changes to existing features.
The features shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The date the plan was drafted along with the name, address and
phone number of the preparer;
         (b)   The zoning classification of the subject property and all
immediately adjacent properties;
         (c)   Property lines, lot dimensions and total acreage;
         (d)   The location and extent of rights-of-way and easements;
         (e)   The location and type of natural water features (e.g., streams,
ponds, rivers, wetlands and the like);
         (f)   The location and dimensions of driveways;
         (g)   The approximate location and dimension of structures including
signs;
         (h)   The location and dimension of parking lots/areas and internal
circulation drives;
         (i)   The location and dimension of private streets;
         (j)   The approximate location and dimensions of landscaping,
buffering, screening, fences and walls;
         (k)   Septic tank systems and wells (including dimensions of each);
and
         (l)   The approximate location of significant trees (those eight
inches or greater in caliper when measured six inches above grade).
   (H)   Level 2 site plan requirements. A Level 2 site plan shall be required
for any use with a land use code of 2, 3, 4 or 5, any project resulting in a
change in impervious surface area within a watershed District except for
single-family and duplex residential development and any other situation
determined by the Zoning Administrator or Review Board to require such a plan.
A Level 2 site plan shall require the seal of a professional engineer,
architect or landscape architect, except that surveyors may also seal plans for
projects that do not include any engineering storm water control structures. A
Level 2 site plan shall consist of the following elements:
      (1)   Graphic materials required for plans. Site plans shall be drawn to
scale on a map of the property. A scale shall be used which ensures that all
features are legible. All Level 2 site plans shall include the following
detail:
         (a)   A location map that shows the project in relation to the larger
planning area;
         (b)   The name of the applicant;
         (c)   The name of the development;
         (d)   A north arrow;
         (e)   A legend; and
         (f)   A scale, including a bar scale.
      (2)   Conditions on the site. Level 2 site plans shall show existing and
proposed features of the site including proposed changes to existing features.
The features shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Natural, historic and open space features.
            1.   Natural cover (wood, pastureland and the like);
            2.   Streams, ponds or rivers;
            3.   Historic sites;
            4.   Fragile environmental areas;
            5.   The approximate location of significant trees (those eight
inches or greater in caliper when measured six inches above grade);
            6.   Contour lines shown as dotted lines at no more than five-foot
intervals (this may be modified by Zoning Administrator depending upon
topography); and
            7.   The location, size and dimensions of all recreational areas
and areas intended to remain as permanent open space, clearly indicating
whether the open space areas are intended to be offered for dedication to the
public.
         (b)   Human-made features.
            1.   Parking and loading areas;
            2.   Public and private streets and alleys, including planned
points of ingress and egress;
            3.   Storm water structures and conveyances, including all
engineered storm water control structures required to meet state mandated water
supply watershed protection regulations;
            4.   Utilities, including water, sewer, electric, power and
telephone;
            5.   The location and dimensions of all structures, including
freestanding signs;
            6.   Dimensions and layout of parking and loading areas;
            7.   A lighting plan;
            8.   All sidewalks, trails and pedestrian paths; and
            9.   The location and dimensions of all landscaping, berms, fences,
walls, screening and buffering.
         (c)   Legal features.
            1.   The zoning of the property and adjacent properties, including
zoning district lines. (Note: some uses may require identification of zoning
district designations as much as 1,000 feet from the proposed development site.
Please consult §
8-3.8 of this article entitled additional conditions, regarding the proposed
use or contact the Zoning Administrator for more information.);
            2.   Property lines;
            3.   Project phase lines;
            4.   Street rights-of-way;
            5.   Utility easements (including water, sewer, electric, power,
storm water and telephone); and
            6.   Lot dimensions.
   (I)   Design and landscaping information required. Whenever a proposed
project would be subject to one or more of the design standards, landscaping or
fencing/wall requirements of this article, architectural renderings sealed by
an architect and site plans sealed by an engineer, landscape architect or
surveyor that are prepared in sufficient detail at a sufficient scale to
determine compliance with relevant sections of this article shall be required
as part of a complete application, except that the Zoning Administrator or
Review Board may exempt minor modifications that do not require the renderings
or plans to demonstrate an intent to comply with the regulations.
   (J)   Sign detail required. Whenever a new sign or change in existing sign
would require the issuance of a permit, detailed designs showing all relevant
information required to determine compliance with the sign regulations shall be
required as part of a complete application.
   (K)   Other requirements. In addition to information required in this
subsection, other information or documents deemed relevant by the Zoning
Administrator or Review Board shall be required, such as evidence of approval
of sedimentation and erosion control plans, prior to issuance of a zoning
permit.
   (L)   Permits for uses by right and uses with conditions. A permit for a use
by right and a use with conditions shall be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator. Applications for a permit shall be made on a form provided by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (M)   Permits for special uses. Permits for special uses shall be obtained
from the Board of Adjustment. Applications for a special use permit shall be
made on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator.
   (N)   Permits for special exceptions. Permits for special exceptions shall
be obtained from the Board of Adjustment. Applications for a special exception
permit shall be made on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.3) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.9.4 Special Use Permits.
   (A)   Permit required. When required, no zoning or building permit shall be
issued until a special use permit for the requested use has been approved by
the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Applicants. A request for a special use permit will be considered only
if requested by the owner of the property in question or an authorized agent of
the property owner.
   (C)   Applications. Applications for all special use permits or amendments
to any approved special use permit must be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Applications which are not complete shall be returned to the applicant, with a
notation of the deficiencies in the application. The Zoning Administrator has
the authority to waive any application requirements where the type of use or
scale of proposal makes that information unnecessary or impractical. A complete
application will include all of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form signed by all of the property owners
of the area proposed for the permit or a completed application form signed by
the developer along with an affidavit signed by all property owners giving the
applicant the permission to pursue the permit and to bind the property to the
proposal and to conditions which the Board might impose;
      (2)   A complete explanation of the proposed use(s) of the property;
      (3)   A Level 2 site plan;
      (4)   Documentation containing facts which will be used to support the
petition, including, but not limited to, deed restrictions, letter of
sufficiency regarding public water and sewer, proposed homeowners association
documents and appropriate county and state approvals;
      (5)   All appropriate fees;
      (6)   A complete listing of all abutting owners of property, their
addresses and tax identification numbers;
      (7)   A synopsis or overview of the project, including information
relevant to use, density, lot layout, housing type, planned amenities and the
like; and
      (8)   Any other information deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be
necessary for sufficient review of the application.
   (D)   Staff review.
      (1)   Sketch plan. Prior to submission of the complete application, all
subdivision developers are required to submit a sketch plan for staff review.
Preparation and review of the sketch plan shall conform to the requirements of
the town’s subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Applications. All applications for special use permits shall be
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and the Technical Review Committee prior
to Board of Adjustment review. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the
number of copies to be submitted by the applicant to ensure that there are
sufficient copies to send to the Board, the Technical Review Committee and all
other appropriate agencies for review and comment. The applicant shall submit a
completed application no later than 30 working days prior to the Board meeting
at which the application is to be heard. If the application is found to be
incomplete or the development is found to be in conflict with the requirements
of this section, the developer shall be notified and the application rejected.
      (3)   Cooperation. The developer is strongly encouraged to work closely
with staff and neighboring property owners before and during the application
and review process to minimize delays and address concerns which may arise in
the review process.
      (4)   Prior to the action on the proposed special use permit, staff may
meet with the petitioner to discuss the proposed plan and suggest features to
be included in the special use permit proposal. The specifics of the plan may
be negotiated to address community issues or concerns and to insure that the
spirit and intent of this chapter are preserved. During the evidentiary
hearing, the Board of Adjustment may suggest additional features to be included
or reflected in the proposal prior to taking action on the request.
   (E)   Hearing.
      (1)   A special use permit hearing will be conducted as a quasi-judicial
hearing before the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   The applicant has the burden of producing competent, material and
substantial evidence establishing that:
         (a)   The proposed special use will comply with all of the lot, size,
yard and other standards of this article, except as may be amended through an
approved variance or special exception permit; and
         (b)   The proposed special use will comply with all general and
specific standards required by the appropriate section of this article for the
issuance of a special use permit for this use.
   (F)   Board of Adjustment action.
      (1)   Review. The Board of Adjustment shall review the application to
determine compliance with this article and all applicable regulations within
the town’s planning jurisdiction. When deciding special use permits, the Board
of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial procedures.
      (2)   Required general findings. No special use permit shall be approved
by the Board of Adjustment unless the following general findings of fact are
made concerning the proposed special use:
         (a)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety
if located, designed and proposed to be operated according to the plan
submitted;
         (b)   The use complies with all regulations and standards of this
article;
         (c)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
property or the use is a public necessity;
         (d)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located;
         (e)   Public water and sewer service are available in adequate
capacity, if needed;
         (f)   The proposed use will not be in conflict with the objectives of
the most detailed plan adopted for the area in which it is located; and
         (g)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by the variance.
   (G)   Decision. In considering an application for a special use permit, the
Board of Adjustment may attach reasonable and appropriate conditions and
safeguards to the location, nature and extent of the proposed use and its
relationship to surrounding property, for the purpose of insuring that the
conditions of permit approval will be complied with and any potentially
injurious effect of the special use on adjoining properties, the character of
the neighborhood or the health, safety and general welfare of the community
will be minimized. The conditions may relate to parking areas and driveways,
pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems, screening and buffer areas,
intensity of site development, the timing of development and other matters the
Board of Adjustment may find appropriate or the applicant may propose. The
applicant will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
additional conditions or requirements prior to final action by the Board of
Adjustment. Reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards may be imposed
upon these permits. Where appropriate, such conditions may include requirements
that street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that
provision be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions and
safeguards imposed under this subsection shall not include requirements for
which the local government does not have authority under statute to regulate
nor requirements for which the courts have held to be unenforceable if imposed
directly by the local government, including, without limitation, taxes, impact
fees, building design elements within the scope of G.S. § 160D-702(b),
driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in G.S. § 136-18(29)
and G.S. § 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the development or
use of land.
   (H)   Withdrawal or amendment of a special use permit application. An
application for a special use permit may be withdrawn or amended as follows:
      (1)   A petition filed according to this section may be withdrawn by the
petitioner at any time up to the scheduling of the date of the public hearing
on the petition.
      (2)   Once the petition has been filed, the petitioner shall not be
allowed to amend it, except by request to the Zoning Administrator no later
than three weeks prior to the scheduled public hearing date. No changes to the
petition shall be accepted in the intervening weeks prior to the public
hearing. No changes to the petition shall be made at the hearing, except that
changes proposed by the petitioner, Board of Adjustment and other interested
parties may be presented at the hearing and considered by the Board of
Adjustment during their deliberations.
      (3)   If the Board of Adjustment deems any amendment to be a substantial
change to the petition, it shall defer action on the petition for 30 days to
allow interested parties the opportunity to comment on the amendment to the
petition.
   (I)   Effect of approval. An approved application for a special use permit
and all conditions which may be attached to the approval are binding on the
property. All subsequent development and use of the property shall be in
conformance with the special use permit and all plans, specifications and
conditions unless such are amended or the permit terminated by the Board of
Adjustment.
   (J)   Effect of denial.   The Board of Adjustment may allow re-submission of
the application if it determines that, since the date of action on the prior
application, one of the following criteria has been met:
      (1)   The Town Board has adopted a new or amended plan for the area that
changes public policy regarding how the subject property and/or the general
area affected by the special use permit should be developed;
      (2)   Construction or expansion of a road, water line, sewer line or
other infrastructure has occurred or is to occur in a time frame as to serve
the property and comfortably accommodate the type and intensity of development
which would be allowed under the proposed special use permit; or
      (3)   There has been a substantial change in conditions or circumstances,
outside the control of the applicant, which justifies waiver of the one-year
restriction on resubmission of a special use permit application for the
property; this shall not include a change in the ownership of the subject
property nor a change in the scale or features of the development proposed in
the prior application.
   (K)   Amendment to an approved special use permit.
      (1)   Any major change to a development approved by special use permit
shall require an amendment to the special use permit by the Board of
Adjustment. Any proposed change in use, increase in density or intensity,
decrease in open space and common recreational facilities, substantial change
in the location of uses or streets from what is shown on the approved plans,
any change in a condition imposed on the use by the Board of Adjustment or any
other change the Zoning Administrator determines is significant shall be deemed
a major change requiring an amendment to the special use permit. Factors to be
considered by the Zoning Administrator in determining if a change is
substantial include, but are not limited to, the extent of the change, the
expected impact on adjacent properties and the impact on off-site streets and
other public infrastructure. Otherwise, minor changes to a permit may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The owner of property which is subject to an approved special use
permit may petition for an amendment of the special use permit and accompanying
conditions by following the procedures applicable to initiation of new special
use permits.
   (L)   Recognition of previously approved special use permits. Special use
permits which have been previously granted by the Board of Adjustment of the
town and special use permits previously granted by the County Board of
Adjustment will be recognized for building permit and other administrative
purposes during the period of time the project was vested by the ordinance
under which it was approved. After the vesting period, if construction of the
development has not begun or there is no valid building permit in effect for
the property, the special use permit will be considered null and void.
   (M)   Revocation of a special use permit.
      (1)   If, at any time, the Zoning Administrator determines that
construction inconsistent with the approved special use permit is occurring
within the development, he or she shall cause to be issued a stop work order on
the construction and he or she shall notify the responsible parties of the
violation who will immediately cease and desist further work on the project.
      (2)   If the non-conformance involves a completed, unoccupied building,
no certificate of occupancy shall be granted for the building until the
violation is corrected. If the non- conformance involves initial construction
or provision of any of the public facilities, open space, required landscaping
or similar common features of the approved permit, no building permits or
certificates of occupancy will be issued within the development until the
violation is corrected or an amended or new special use permit has been granted
by the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Action to revoke a permit shall be taken by the Board of Adjustment
after receiving a request from staff. A request shall be in writing and shall
declare that the applicant and all property owners within the development, as
recorded at the Register of Deeds office, have been notified at least ten days
before the meeting of the pending action and the date, time and place of the
Board of Adjustment meeting at which the request will be made. The applicant
and property owners shall have the right to appear before the Board of
Adjustment at the meeting and show cause why the Board of Adjustment should not
revoke the permit. Notification shall be deemed given when written notice is
sent by first class mail to the property owner at the address shown on the most
recent property tax records and one or more signs are posted in prominent
locations on the subject site reasonably calculated to give notice of the
action.
   (N)   Expiration of a special use permit. Approval of a special use permit
shall confer upon the developer all vested rights as set forth in this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.4) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.9.5 Appeals.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator or
Zoning Enforcement Officer pertaining to this article.
   (B)   An appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator or
Zoning Enforcement Officer. An appeal to the Board of Adjustment shall be made
within ten days of the order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator or Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   An appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator. Once an
appeal is filed, the Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit all papers
with reference to the case to the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination with reference to
the appeal.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.5) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.9.6 Variances.
   (A)   When practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from
carrying out the strict letter of this article, the Board of Adjustment shall
have the power to vary or modify any of the regulations or provisions of this
article relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures or the use of the land, except those specifically related to water
supply watershed requirements, so the spirit of the article shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. For variances
to the requirements of a water supply Watershed Overlay District, see §
8-3.9.8.
   (B)   Anyone requesting a variance shall file such with the Zoning
Administrator on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator. Applications
shall be filed at least ten days prior to the Board of Adjustment meeting at
which it will be heard. After filing, the request shall be heard at the next
available Board of Adjustment meeting.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment, in considering an application for a variance,
shall give due consideration to the following.
      (1)   No non-conforming use of land or structures in the same district
and no permitted use of land or structures in other districts shall be
considered grounds for the granting of a variance.
      (2)   The request for a variance for a use that is expressly or by
inference, prohibited in the district involved shall not be granted.
      (3)   The fact that property may be utilized more profitably will not be
considered in granting a variance.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment, before granting a variance, shall make all of
the following findings:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment, in granting a variance, may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this article.
Violation of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under
which a variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.6) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.9.7 Amendments.
   (A)   Authority. The Town Board shall have the authority to amend the zoning
text and maps as follows; except that, amendments to this text which affect one
or more watershed requirements shall also follow the procedures outlined in §
8-3.9.8 for amendments.
   (B)   Initiation. Any amendment to the zoning text or map, except for the
classification of property to a conditional district may be initiated by:
      (1)   The Town Board or the Planning Board;
      (2)   The property owner(s), upon filing an official petition including a
complete application; and
      (3)   No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the written consent
of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the local
government. For purposes of this section, "down-zoning" means a zoning
ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
         (a)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less
dense than was allowed under its previous usage.
         (b)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in
a zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were
allowed under its previous usage.
   (C)   Application for a text amendment. A petition for amendment to the text
of this article shall consist of:
      (1)   A completed application form;
      (2)   A written justification for the requested amendment including
consistency of the proposal with town planning policies;
      (3)   All appropriate fees; and
      (4)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator
or Review Board.
   (D)   Application for a map amendment. A petition for amendment to the
Zoning Map shall consist of:
      (1)   A completed application form;
      (2)   A list of adjoining properties including tax parcel numbers and the
name and address of each owner. For the purposes of this section, adjoining
property owners shall include owners of properties lying within 100 feet of the
subject property if located across a public or private street;
      (3)   A map of the parcel and its relationship to the general area in
which it is located;
      (4)   All appropriate fees; and
      (5)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator
or Review Board.
   (E)   Conditional District rezonings.
      (1)   Initiation. The reclassification of property to a conditional
District may be initiated only by the property owner(s) or an agent authorized
by affidavit to act on the owner’s behalf.
      (2)   Petition. A request for rezoning to a conditional District shall
include an official petition consisting of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form;
         (b)   A list of adjoining properties including tax parcel numbers and
the name and address of each owner. For the purposes of this section, adjoining
property owners shall include owners of properties lying within 100 feet of the
subject property if located across a public or private street;
         (c)   A map of the parcel and its relationship to the general area in
which it is located;
         (d)   All appropriate fees;
         (e)   A Level 2 site plan;
         (f)   A written description or notation on the map explaining the
proposed use of all land and structures, including the number of residential
units or the total square footage of any non-residential development; and
         (g)   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator or Review Board.
      (3)   Conditions. Prior to the action on the proposed amendment (which
may also include a period after the public hearing) any Planning Board or Town
Board member (or any group of members not comprising a majority of the Board)
may meet with the petitioner to discuss the proposed plan and suggest features
to be included in the rezoning proposal. The specifics of the plan may be
negotiated to address community issues or concerns and to ensure that the
spirit and intent of this article are preserved. During the public hearing, the
Town Board may suggest additional features to be included or reflected in the
proposal prior to taking action on the request, but only those that are
mutually approved by the town and the petitioner may be incorporated into the
zoning regulations or permit requirements. These mutually approved conditions
shall be listed and signed by the applicant/petitioner during the Town Council
hearing.
      (4)   When development not begun within three years. The property owner
shall commence construction in accordance with the approved development plan
within three years after the rezoning. If the Planning Board determines that
construction has not commenced in accordance with the plan within the time
period, it may, at its discretion, recommend to the Town Board that the town
rezone the property to an appropriate General Use Zoning District.
   (F)   Copies. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the number of copies
of each petition and other required documentation to be submitted by the
petitioner so that copies may be circulated to all appropriate staff, agencies
and boards for review and comment.
   (G)   Withdrawal or amendment of petition.
      (1)   A petition filed according to this section may be withdrawn by the
petitioner at any time up to the scheduling, by the Town Board, of the date of
the public hearing on the petition.
      (2)   If the petitioner wishes to withdraw the petition after the
scheduling of the public hearing, the petitioner may file a request to withdraw
with the Town Clerk. On the date scheduled for the hearing, the Town Board may
approve the request for withdrawal if it finds that there are substantial
circumstances favoring the withdrawal and that the withdrawal will not be
detrimental to the interests of citizens affected by the petition.
      (3)   Once the petition has been filed, the petitioner shall not be
allowed to amend it except by request to the Zoning Administrator no later than
three weeks prior to the scheduled public hearing date. No changes to the
petition shall be accepted in the intervening weeks prior to the public
hearing. No changes to the petition shall be made at the hearing, although
potential changes proposed by the petitioner, Planning Board, Town Board and
other interested parties may be presented at the hearing and considered by the
Planning Board and Town Board during their deliberations.
      (4)   If the Town Board deems any amendment to be a substantial change to
the petition, it shall defer action on the petition for 30 days to allow
interested parties the opportunity to comment on the amendment to the petition.
      (5)   If the Town Board deems any amendment to be an intensification of
the petition, it shall call a new public hearing.
   (H)   Protest petitions.
      (1)   Written protest against an amendment to the zoning classification
of property, excepting amendments which initially zone property added to the
territorial coverage of the ordinance, shall require a favorable vote of three-
fourths of all members of the Town Board under the following conditions:
         (a)   If written protests are submitted by the owners of 20% or more
of the area of the lots included in a proposed change; or
         (b)   If written protests are submitted by the owners of 5% of a 100-
foot wide buffer extending along the entire boundary of each discrete or
separate area proposed to be rezoned. A street right-of-way shall not be
considered in computing the 100-foot buffer area as long as that street right-
of-way is 100 feet wide or less. When less than an entire parcel of land is
subject to the proposed zoning map amendment, the 100-foot buffer shall be
measured from the property line of that parcel. In the absence of evidence to
the contrary, the city may rely on the county tax listing to determine the
“owners” of potentially qualifying areas.
         (c)   Vacant positions on the Council and members who are excused from
voting shall not be considered members of the council for calculation of the
requisite super majority.
         (d)   The foregoing provisions concerning protests shall be applicable
to any amendment which initially zones property added to the territorial
coverage of the ordinance as a result of annexation or otherwise or to an
amendment to an adopted:
            1.   Special use District;
            2.   Conditional District; and
            3.   If the amendment does not change the types of uses that are
permitted within the District or increases the approved density for residential
development or increase the total approved size of non-residential development
or reduce the size of any buffers or screening approved for the special use
District or conditional District.
      (2)   To be valid and effective, protest letters shall:
         (a)   Be presented in writing;
         (b)   Contain the signature(s) and address(s) of the protesting
property owner(s);
         (c)   State that the signer does protest the proposed amendment;
         (d)   Be received by the Town Clerk at least two working days,
excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays before the date established for
a public hearing on the proposed amendment, in order to establish the
sufficiency and accuracy of the petition; and
         (e)   Subject to the limitations of this article, zoning regulations
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed.
If any resident or property owner in the town's planning and zoning
jurisdiction submits a written statement regarding a proposed amendment,
modification, or repeal to a zoning regulation, including a text or map
amendment that has been properly initiated as provided in §
8-3.9.7 above, to the Town Clerk at least two business days prior to the
proposed vote on such change, the Town Clerk shall deliver such written
statement to the Board of Commissioners. If the proposed change is the subject
of a quasi-judicial proceeding under §§
8-3.9.4,
8-3.9.5, and
8-3.9.6, the Town Clerk shall provide only the names and addresses of the
individuals providing written comment, and the provision of such names and
addresses to all members of the Board of Commissioners shall not disqualify any
member of the respective board(s) from voting.
   (I)   Hearing.
      (1)   The Town Board may refuse to call for a public hearing on any
petition for amendment to the zoning text or zoning map if, in the Board’s
opinion, the petition lacks merit.
      (2)   Notice of public hearings required under these regulations shall be
in accordance with the North Carolina General Statutes.
      (3)   Notice of any request for a change in the zoning map shall state
that the Planning Board and Town Board may consider the application of any of
the zoning districts to the property, not just the classification requested.
      (4)   Conduct of public hearing:
         (a)   No amendment shall be adopted until after the Town Board has
held a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
         (b)   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
procedures established by the Mayor and Town Board.
         (c)   When presenting a petition for the reclassification of property
to a General Use District, as opposed to a Conditional Zoning District, the
petitioner shall refrain from using any graphic materials or descriptions of
the proposed use or development site design, except for those which would apply
to any use or development site design permitted in the requested district.
   (J)   Recommendation and decision.
      (1)   No proposed amendment shall be approved unless it is first
submitted to the Planning Board for a recommendation. If the Planning Board
does not make a recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, deny or
defer a decision on the proposed amendment within 31 calendar days after the
petition has been referred to it, then the Planning Board shall be considered
to have recommended deferral for additional deliberation. The petition, along
with the recommendation of the Planning Board, shall be placed on the agenda of
the Town Board at its next regular zoning meeting.
      (2)   The Town Board, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning
Board, shall within a reasonable time either reject the proposed amendment or
approve the proposed amendment, with or without modifications.
      (3)   In considering any petition to reclassify property the Planning
Board in its recommendation and the Town Board in its decision shall consider
all of the following:
         (a)   Whether the proposed reclassification is consistent with the
purposes, goals, objectives and policies of adopted plans for the area;
         (b)   Whether the proposed reclassification is consistent with the
overall character of existing development in the immediate vicinity of the
subject property;
         (c)   The adequacy of public facilities and services intended to serve
the subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and
recreational facilities, police and fire protection, hospitals and medical
services, schools, storm water drainage systems, water supplies and wastewater
and refuse disposal; and
         (d)   Whether the proposed reclassification will adversely affect a
known archaeological, environmental, historical or cultural resource.
      (4)   When considering a petition to reclassify property to a general-use
District, the Planning Board and the Town Board shall not evaluate the petition
based on any specific proposal for the use of the property or design of the
site.
      (5)   In approving an amendment to reclassify property to a general-use
District or, with the consent of the petitioner, to a conditional District, the
Town Board may change the existing classification of the property or any part
of the property covered by the petition, to the classification requested or to
any other classification or classifications permitted by this article.
      (6)   The Town Board may modify any proposed text amendment upon adoption
of an ordinance enacting the amendment, without the withdrawal or modification
of the petition or further public hearings, when, in the opinion of the Board,
such a change would not require a separate public hearing.
      (7)   The Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed
amendment is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has been adopted and
any other officially adopted plan that is available. The Planning Board shall
provide a written recommendation to the governing board that addresses plan
consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board, but
a comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with
the comprehensive plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the
proposed amendment by the governing board.
      (8)   A statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning
shall be prepared for each petition for a rezoning to a conditional use
District or other small-scale rezoning.
      (9)    Prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the governing
board shall adopt a statement describing whether its action is consistent with
the adopted land use plan and explaining why the Board considers the action
taken to be reasonable and in the public interest. If a zoning map amendment is
adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the
zoning amendment shall have the effect of also amending any future land-use map
in the approved plan, and no additional request or application for a plan
amendment shall be required. A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be
considered concurrently. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the governing board statement describing
plan consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis
and policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
      (10)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings (map
amendments).
         (a)   When adopting or rejecting any petition for a zoning map
amendment, a statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning
shall be approved by the Planning Board and recommended to the Board of
Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall adopt its own statement of
reasonableness at the time it rules on a petition for a zoning amendment. This
statement of reasonableness may consider, among other factors,
            1.   The size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the
area proposed to be rezoned;
            2.   The benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors,
and the surrounding community;
            3.   The relationship between the current actual and permissible
development on the tract and adjoining areas and the development that would be
permissible under the proposed amendment;
            4.   Why the action taken is in the public interest; and
            5.   Any changed conditions warranting the amendment.
         (b)   If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning"
under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners
statements on reasonableness may address the overall rezoning.
      (11)   The Planning Board and/or Board of Commissioners may consider and
adopt a combined, single statement of consistency and reasonableness.
   (K)   Effect of the denial of a petition.
      (1)   A petition for the reclassification of property that has been
denied in whole or in part, shall not be re-submitted within one year of the
date of the Town Board’s action on the original petition.
      (2)   The Town Board may, however, allow re-submission of a petition
within the one-year restricted period if it determines that, since the date of
action on the prior petition, one of the following criteria has been met:
         (a)   There has been a similar change in the zoning district
classification of an adjacent property;
         (b)   The Town Board has adopted a new or amended plan for the area
that changes public policy regarding how the property affected by the amendment
should be developed;
         (c)   Construction or expansion of a road, water line, sewer line or
other infrastructure has occurred or is to occur in a time frame as to serve
the property and comfortably accommodate the intensity of development allowed
under the proposed classification; and
         (d)   There has been a substantial change in conditions or
circumstances, outside the control of the petitioner, which justifies waiver of
the one-year restriction on a new petition. This shall not include a change in
the ownership of the subject property nor, in the case of a petition for
reclassification to a conditional or overlay District, a change in the scale or
features of the development proposed in the prior petition.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.7) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.9.8 Watershed Amendments and Variances.
   (A)   Amendments. All amendments to the watershed regulations shall be heard
as regular amendments to this article. However, under no circumstances shall
the town amend, supplement or change the watershed regulations so as to cause
these regulations to violate the watershed protection rules as adopted by the
State Environmental Management Commission. All amendments shall be filed with
the State Division of Water Quality, State Division of Environmental Health and
the State Division of Community Assistance.
   (B)   Watershed variances.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall handle minor variances to the
watershed requirements in the same manner as regular zoning variances.
      (2)   If a major variance (see definition) is requested, the Planning
Board shall, after making a favorable decision to grant the request, prepare a
preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate speed. The preliminary
record of the hearing shall include all of the following:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (3)   (a)   The information shall be sent to the State Environmental
Management Commission for it's review. The EMC shall review the preliminary
record and determine whether or not:
            1.   The request qualifies as a major variance;
            2.   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance is granted;
and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat
to the water supply.
         (b)   Based on its findings, the EMC shall approve the variance as
proposed or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations or
disapprove the variance. The EMC shall prepare a decision and send it to the
Board of Adjustment. The Planning Board shall prepare a final decision based on
the decision of the EMC.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify any jurisdictions within the
watershed of a proposed variance to the watershed regulations. Local
governments may submit any comments to the Zoning Administrator before the
public hearing by the Planning Board.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.8) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.9.9 Waiver of Architectural and Site Design Requirements.
   In order to encourage creative design, to avoid undue hardship and to
expedite the zoning approval process for developments within the town, a waiver
of any of the architectural or site design requirements contained within this
article may be approved as follows.
   (A)   Minor waiver. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to grant a minor
waiver from the standards of this article subject to the following:
      (1)   Any request for a waiver of a standard set forth in the ordinance
including, but not necessarily limited to, height requirements and limitation,
yard requirements, parking requirements, screening or buffer requirements,
planting requirements, ratio requirements, density requirements, spacing
requirements and signage requirements, landscaping material, building design
and parking lot layout shall be granted only after the applicant has
demonstrated that:
         (a)   The deviation was a result of unique conditions of the property;
or
         (b)   The deviation will result in a project that is at least equal to
or better than what would be accomplished under the strict application of this
article.
      (2)   Before granting a minor waiver the Zoning Administrator shall
reasonably determine that granting the waiver:
         (a)   Does not and will not violate the spirit and intent of the
ordinance; and
         (b)   Does not and will not adversely affect the rights of other
property owners in any material manner.
      (3)   A minor waiver may not deviate by more than 10% from any of the
measurable standards of this article.
      (4)   The authority given to the Zoning Administrator to grant the
waivers shall be construed to be permissive and not mandatory and the Zoning
Administrator may decline to make the waiver. In the event this occurs, the
applicant shall have the right to request a special exception permit from the
Board of Adjustment granting a major waiver to these requirements.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the Zoning
Administrator's duties and rights under this article or an applicant's right to
appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Major waiver. The Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant a major
waiver from the standards of this article through the issuance of a special
exception permit. Application and issuance of the permits shall be governed as
follows.
      (1)   Applicants. A request for a special exception permit will be
considered only if requested by the owner of the property in question or an
authorized agent of the property owner.
      (2)   Applications. Applications for all special exception permits or
amendments to any approved special exception permit must be filed with the
Zoning Administrator. Applications which are not complete shall be returned to
the applicant, with a notation of the deficiencies in the application. A
complete application will include all of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form signed by all of the property
owners of the property or land proposed for the permit or a completed
application form signed by the developer along with an affidavit signed by all
property owners giving the applicant the permission to pursue the permit and to
bind the property to the proposal and to conditions which the Board might
impose;
         (b)   A complete explanation of the purpose and extent of the
requested waiver including sealed site plans and architectural renderings when
applicable or requested by the Zoning Administrator or the Board of Adjustment;
         (c)   Documentation containing facts which will be used to support the
petition, including, but not limited to, deed restrictions, proposed homeowners
association documents and statements from adjacent property owners (where
applicable);
         (d)   All appropriate fees;
         (e)   A complete listing of all owners of adjacent property, their
addresses and tax identification numbers; and
         (f)   Any other information deemed by the Zoning Administrator or the
Board of Adjustment to be necessary for sufficient review of the application.
      (3)   Staff review. All applications for a special exception permit shall
be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and, where necessary, the Technical
Review Committee prior to Board of Adjustment review. The Zoning Administrator
shall determine the number of copies to be submitted by the petitioner to
ensure that there are sufficient copies to send to the Board, the Technical
Review Committee and all other appropriate agencies for review and comment. The
applicant shall submit a completed application no later than 15 working days
prior to the board meeting at which the petition is to be heard. If the
application is found to be incomplete, the developer shall be notified and the
petition rejected.
      (4)   Cooperation. The developer is strongly encouraged to work closely
with staff and neighboring property owners before and during the application
and review process to minimize delays and address concerns which may arise.
      (5)   Board review. The Board of Adjustment shall review the application
for a waiver in the context of the spirit and intent of the requirements of
this article; existing, proposed and planned development in the immediate area;
similar properties and situations in other areas of the town's jurisdiction;
and all other applicable regulations affecting the property.
      (6)   Required general findings. No special exception permit shall be
approved by the Board of Adjustment unless the following general findings of
fact are made concerning the proposed special use:
         (a)   The proposed development represents a design in site and/or
architecture which will result in a development that is equivalent to or
superior to that achievable under the applicable regulations;
         (b)   The proposed development will be compatible with and will not
substantially injure the value of adjoining property; and
         (c)   The proposed development is consistent with the intent of this
article.
      (7)   Withdrawal or amendment of a special exception permit application.
An application for a special exception permit may be withdrawn or amended as
follows.
         (a)   A petition filed according to this section may be withdrawn by
the petitioner at any time up to the scheduling of the date of the public
hearing on the petition.
         (b)   If the petitioner wishes to withdraw the petition after the
scheduling of the public hearing, the petitioner may file a request to withdraw
with the Zoning Administrator. On the date scheduled for the hearing, the Board
of Adjustment may approve the request for withdrawal if it finds that there are
substantial circumstances favoring the withdrawal and that the withdrawal will
not be detrimental to the interests of citizens affected by the petition.
         (c)   Once the petition has been filed, the petitioner shall not be
allowed to amend it, except by request to the Zoning Administrator no later
than three weeks prior to the scheduled public hearing date. No changes to the
petition shall be accepted in the intervening weeks prior to the public
hearing. No changes to the petition shall be made at the hearing, although
potential changes proposed by the petitioner, Board of Adjustment and other
interested parties may be presented at the hearing and considered by the Board
of Adjustment during their deliberations.
         (d)   If the Board of Adjustment deems any amendment to be a
substantial change to the petition, it shall defer action on the petition for
30 days to allow interested parties the opportunity to comment on the amendment
to the petition.
         (e)   If the Board of Adjustment deems any amendment to be an
intensification of the petition, it shall call for a new public hearing.
      (8)   Hearing.
         (a)   A special exception permit hearing will be conducted as a quasi-
judicial hearing before the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   The applicant has the burden of producing competent, material
and substantial evidence in support of the application.
      (9)   Decision. In considering an application for a special exception
permit, the Board of Adjustment may attach reasonable and appropriate
conditions and safeguards to the location, nature and extent of the proposed
use and its relation to surrounding property, for the purpose of insuring that
the conditions of permit approval will be complied with and any potentially
injurious effect of the special use on adjoining properties, the character of
the neighborhood or the health, safety and general welfare of the community
will be minimized. The conditions may relate to parking areas and driveways,
pedestrian and vehicular circulation systems, screening and buffer areas,
intensity of site development, the timing of development and other matters the
Board of Adjustment may find appropriate or the applicant may propose. The
applicant will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
additional conditions or requirements prior to final action by the Board of
Adjustment.
      (10)   Effect of approval. An approved application for a special
exception permit and all conditions which may be attached thereto are binding
on the property.
      (11)   Amendment to an approved special exception permit.
         (a)   Any change to a development approved by special exception permit
shall require an amendment to the special exception permit by the Board of
Adjustment.
         (b)   The owner of property which is subject to an approved special
exception permit may petition for an amendment of the special exception permit
and accompanying conditions by following the procedures applicable to
initiation of new special exception permits.
         (c)   Evidence presented at the hearing on the proposed amendment will
be limited to the effect of the proposal on the original special exception
permit, any plans or conditions which were a part of the original special
exception permit and the present standards and requirements in this article.
      (12)   Appeals. Any petition for review by Superior Court shall be filed
with the Clerk Of Superior Court within thirty days after a written copy of the
decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed in the office of the Zoning
Administrator or is delivered to every aggrieved party who has filed a written
request for the copy with the Clerk at the time of the hearing of the case,
whichever is later.
      (13)   Revocation of a special exception permit.
         (a)   A special exception permit may be revoked by the Board of
Adjustment if it determines that the applicant is exceeding the authority
granted by the permit or fails to meet the conditions attached thereto.
         (b)   Action to revoke a permit shall be taken by the Board of
Adjustment after receiving a request from staff. Such a request shall be in
writing and shall declare that the applicant and all property owners within the
development, as recorded at the register of deeds office, have been notified at
least ten days before the meeting of the pending action and the date, time and
place of the Board of Adjustment meeting at which the request will be made. The
applicant and property owners shall have the right to appear before the Board
of Adjustment at the meeting and show cause why the Board of Adjustment should
not revoke the permit. Notification shall be deemed given when written notice
is sent by first class mail to the property owner at the address shown on the
most recent property tax records and one or more signs are posted in prominent
locations on the subject site reasonably calculated to give notice of the
action.
      (14)   Expiration of a special exception permit.
         (a)   Approval of a special exception permit shall confer upon the
developer all vested rights as set forth in this article.
         (b)   In order for a special exception permit to remain in effect for
a particular development, a valid building permit must be issued for
construction within the time period vested. If at any time after this date,
construction has not been completed and no valid building permits are
outstanding for construction within the development, the special exception
permit shall expire. No further construction may occur within the development
until a new special exception permit has been issued by the Board of
Adjustment. Application for a new special exception permit shall follow the
procedures outlined in this section.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.9) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.9.10 Enforcement.
   Whenever there is a violation of this article, the Zoning Administrator and/
or Zoning Enforcement Officer may take any or all of the following actions to
stop the violation.
   (A)   When staff determines work or activity has been undertaken in
violation of a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter or other
town development regulation or any state law delegated to the local government
for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state or in violation of the terms of a
development approval, a written notice of violation may be issued.
      (1)   The notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the
landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means
to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity.
      (2)   The notice of violation may be posted on the property.
      (3)   The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners that the notice was provided, and the
certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (B)   Permit revocation. In addition to initiation of enforcement actions
under G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked by the Zoning
Administrator by notifying the holder in writing stating the reason for the
revocation.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator and/or town shall follow the same
development review and approval process required for issuance of the
development approval, including any required notice or hearing by the Board of
Adjustment or Board of Commissioners, in the review and approval of any
revocation of that approval.
      (2)   Development approvals shall be revoked for any substantial
departure from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal
or failure to comply with the requirements of the Town Code of Ordinances,
including the zoning and subdivision ordinances or any state law delegated to
the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for
false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any
development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state law
or town ordinance may also be revoked.
      (3)   The revocation of a development approval by the Zoning
Administrator may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405.
   (C)   Stop work orders. Whenever a building, structure or part thereof is
being constructed, demolished, renovated, altered or repaired in substantial
violation of any applicable provision of this article, the Zoning Administrator
and/or Zoning Enforcement Officer may order the specific part of the work that
is in violation or would be when the work is completed, to be immediately
stopped. The stop work order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing
the work and shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons
for cessation and the action(s) necessary to lawfully resume work.
      (1)   A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that person
is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail.
      (2)   The person or persons delivering the stop work order shall certify
to the local government that the order was delivered, and that certificate
shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      (3)   No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop
work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   In addition to the other remedies cited in this article for the
enforcement of its provisions and pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the regulations
and standards of this article may be enforced through the issuance of civil
penalties by the Zoning Administrator and/or Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Subsequent citations for the same violation may be issued by the
Zoning Administrator and/or Zoning Enforcement Officer if the offender does not
pay the citation (except as otherwise provided in a warning situation) after it
has been issued unless the offender has sought an appeal to the decision of the
Zoning Administrator through the Board of Adjustment. Once the ten-day warning
period has expired, each day which the violation continues shall subject the
violator to additional citations to be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The following penalties are hereby established:
         (a)   Warning citation: correct violation within ten days;
         (b)   First citation: $50;
         (c)   Second citation for same offense: $100; and
         (d)   Third and subsequent citations for same offense: $500.
      (4)   If the offender fails to pay the civil penalties within three days
after having been cited, the town may recover the penalties in a civil action
in the nature of debt.
   (E)   Criminal penalties. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of
violating the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 and/or imprisoned
for a period not to exceed 30 days. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense; provided that, the violation of this article is not corrected
within 30 days after notice of the violation is given.
   (F)   Equitable remedy. The Zoning Administrator and/or Zoning Enforcement
Officer may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any appropriate
equitable remedy to enforce the provisions of this article. It is not a defense
to the Zoning Administrator’s application for equitable relief that there are
other remedies provided under general law or this article.
   (G)   Injunction. Enforcement of the provisions of this article may also be
achieved by injunction. When a violation occurs, the Zoning Administrator and/
or Zoning Enforcement Officer may, either before or after the institution of
other authorized action, apply to the appropriate division of the General Court
for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to correct
the unlawful condition or cease the unlawful use of the property.
   (H)   Order of abatement. In addition to an injunction, the Zoning
Administrator may apply for and the court may enter into an order of abatement
as part of the judgment in the case. An order of abatement may direct any of
the following actions:
      (1)   Buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed;
      (2)   Fixtures, furniture or other moveable property be moved or removed
entirely;
      (3)   Improvements, alterations, modifications or repairs be made; or
      (4)   Any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property
into compliance with this article.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.9.10) (Updated 2009) (Amended 6-1-2021)
§ 8-3.10 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
§ 8-3.10.1 Rules of Construction.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following rules of construction
apply.
   (A)   Interpretations shall be guided by statements of intent.
   (B)   The term "this article" shall refer to the "Town of Mocksville Zoning
Ordinance".
   (C)   The words "shall", "must" and "will" are mandatory, implying an
obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision.
   (D)   The word "may" is permissive, except when the context of the
particular use is negative, then it is mandatory (e.g., "may not").
   (E)   The word "should", whether used in the positive or the negative, is a
suggested guideline.
   (F)   References to "days" will always be construed to be business days,
excluding weekends and holidays, unless the context of the language clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (G)   For purposes of interpreting this article, certain words, concepts and
ideas are defined in §
8-3.10.3. Except as defined herein, all other words used in this article shall
have their everyday dictionary definition.
   (H)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense and words
used in the future tense include the present tense.
   (I)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in
the plural number include the singular.
   (J)   The word "person" includes a firm, association organization,
partnership, corporation, trust and company as well as an individual.
   (K)   The word "lot" includes the word "plot", "parcel" or "tract".
   (L)   The word "building" includes the word "structure" and the word
"structure" includes the word "building".
   (M)   The words "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words "intended", "arranged" or "designed" to
be used or occupied.
   (N)   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender.
   (O)   The word "street" includes the words road, avenue, place, way, drive,
lane, boulevard, highway and any other facility principally designed for motor
vehicle traffic, except an alley or an easement solely for utilities or
pedestrians.
   (P)   The terms "Town Board" and "Board of Commissioners" shall mean the
Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of Mocksville, North Carolina.
   (Q)   The term "Planning Board" shall mean the Planning Board of the Town of
Mocksville, North Carolina.
   (R)   The term "Zoning Administrator" shall mean the Zoning Administrator of
the town of Mocksville, North Carolina.
   (S)   The term "Subdivision Administrator" shall mean the Subdivision
Administrator of the town of Mocksville, North Carolina.
   (T)   The term "Manager" or "Town Manager" shall mean the Town Manager of
the town of Mocksville, North Carolina.
   (U)   The term "Board of Adjustment" shall mean the Board of Adjustment of
the town of Mocksville, North Carolina".
   (V)   The term "State" shall mean the state of North Carolina.
   (W)   Any reference to a section shall mean a section of The Town of
Mocksville Zoning Ordinance, unless otherwise specified.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.10.1) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.10.2 Interpretation.
   (A)   Zoning boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of
any District shown on the official zoning map, the Zoning Administrator shall
employ the following rules of interpretation.
      (1)   Where the zoning maps show a boundary line located within a street
or alley right-of-way, railroad or utility line right-of-way, easement or
waterway, it shall be considered to be in the center of the right-of-way,
easement or waterway. If the actual location of the right-of-way, easement or
waterway varies slightly from the location as shown on the zoning maps, then
the actual location shall control.
      (2)   Where the zoning maps show a District boundary to approximately
coincide with a property line or city, town or county border, the property line
or border shall be considered to be the District boundary, unless otherwise
indicated on.
      (3)   Where the zoning maps show a District boundary to not coincide or
approximately coincide with any street, alley, railroad, waterway or property
line and no dimensions are shown, the location of the boundary shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the zoning maps.
      (4)   If, because of error or omission in the zoning maps, any property
within the jurisdiction of this article is not shown as currently being in a
zoning district, the property will be classified as OSR, until changed by
amendment.
      (5)   Where District boundaries appear to parallel to the center line of
streets, easements or rights-of-way, the District boundaries shall be construed
to be parallel thereto and at such a distance therefrom as is indicated on the
zoning maps.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall decide the exact location of zoning
district boundary lines when a question arises concerning boundary lines shown
on the zoning maps. This decision may be appealed to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Split tracts and fractional requirements. The Zoning Administrator
shall employ the following rules with respect to split tracts and fractional
requirements.
      (1)   Where a District boundary line divides a lot or tract in single
ownership, the District requirements for the least restricted portion of the
lot or tract shall be extended to apply to the whole, provided the extensions
shall not include any part of a lot or tract more than 35 feet beyond the
District boundary line. The term "least restrictive" shall refer to all zoning
restrictions except lot or tract size.
      (2)   When any requirement of this article results in a fraction of a
dwelling unit or other measurement, that fraction will be disregarded and the
nearest lower whole number shall apply.
      (3)   Whenever a density calculation for a legal lot of record results in
less than one dwelling unit being permitted, one dwelling unit will be
permitted subject to the remaining provisions of this article.
   (C)   General rules of conflict.
      (1)   In the event of a conflict between the text of this article and any
caption, figure, illustration or table included herein, the text of this
article shall control.
      (2)   In the event there is a conflict in limitations, requirements or
standards applying to any individual use or structure, the more stringent or
restrictive provision shall apply.
   (D)   Distance measurements. Distance separations are required for many uses
in this article. Unless otherwise specified, the following rules shall apply in
determining the measurements:
      (1)   Where lot separation is required, measurements shall be made from
lot line to lot line using the shortest straight-line distance between lots.
      (2)   Where separation between a building, structure, parking area,
buffer, driveway or similar feature on a development site and any other feature
on the same or abutting site is required or is part of a regulation contained
herein, the separation shall be measured between the closest points on the
feature using the shortest straight-line distance between the two.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.10.2) (Updated 2009)
§ 8-3.10.3 Definitions.
   For the purpose of interpreting this article, certain words and terms used
in this article are defined as follows. Except as defined herein, all other
words used in this article shall have their usual, customary dictionary
meaning.
   ABANDONED.
      (1)   A use shall be deemed to be abandoned when:
         (a)   The use is physically and objectively discontinued [other than
in association with the settlement of an estate or for any use which is
seasonal in nature];
         (b)   The premises are devoted to another use; or
         (c)   The characteristic equipment and furnishings of a non-conforming
non- residential use have been physically removed from the premises and have
not been replaced by the same or similar equipment within 30 days.
      (2)   All of the above events are considered abandonment, regardless of
the intent of the owner, lessee or occupant and regardless of any circumstances
beyond the control of the parties that prevent continuation of the use.
   ABATTOIRS. A facility used for slaughtering and processing of animals and
the refining of their byproducts.
   ABUTTING PROPERTIES. Having common property boundaries or lot lines which
are not separated by a street, alley or other vehicular right-of-way such as a
railroad.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. See DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY, ATTACHED; DWELLING
UNIT, ACCESSORY, DETACHED.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. See STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A use or structure that is customarily or
typically subordinate to and serves a principal use or structure; is clearly
subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal use or structure
served; and is located on the same lot as the principal use or structure. The
structure must meet State Building Code requirements. This term shall include
swimming pools, satellite dishes, and pre-constructed buildings built
specifically for storage and/or other accessory uses.
   ACCESSORY USE. See USE, ACCESSORY.
   ADAPTIVE REUSE. The rehabilitation, reconstruction or renovation of existing
buildings or structures for any use other than its current use.
   ADJACENT. This term shall mean anything that is contiguous or abutting with
the assumption that railroads, roads and other rights-of-way do not exist.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION. Decisions made in the implementation,
administration, or enforcement of development regulations that involve the
determination of facts and the application of objective standards set forth in
this chapter. These are sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or
administrative determinations.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any principal or accessory structure or use of land
which meets the definition of adult establishment as set forth in G.S. §§ 14-
202.10 et seq. and the Town Code of Ordinances, but excluding massage therapy.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY. Commercial poultry or swine production, cattle or
swine feed lots, fur bearing animal farms, commercial plant production (not
retail nurseries) on more than two acres, commercial fish or poultry hatcheries
and other similar activities.
   AIRPORT. Landing fields, parking and service facilities, passenger and
baggage terminals and related facilities for the operation, service, fueling,
repair, storage, charter, sales and rental of aircraft. The word “aircraft”
shall include fixed-wing as well as rotary-wing craft.
   ALLEY. A service way providing a secondary means of public access to
abutting property.
   ALTERATION. A change in the size, configuration or location of a structure;
or a change in the use of a structure or lot from a previously approved or
legally existing use.
   AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA. Any tower and/or antenna owned and operated by an
amateur radio operator for "amateur service," as that term is defined by 47
C.F.R. § 97.3(a)(4). The towers and antennas must be used only for
noncommercial purposes and must be 50 feet tall or less. For the purposes of
this chapter, any antenna not meeting this definition shall be deemed a
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. This use does not include towers and
antennas owned or operated by a government agency.
   AMENDMENT. Any change by the Town Board to the text of these regulations or
the official zoning maps.
   AMORTIZATION. A provision requiring a non-conformance to either become
conforming or be removed within a set period of time, otherwise known as the
amortization period.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. Any business establishment which is primarily
engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a video arcade, billiard
parlor, skating rink or similar activity as a principal use to the general
public, but does not include indoor motion picture theaters.
   AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Any business establishment which is primarily
engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a miniature golf course,
skateboard course, water slide, mechanical ride, par 3 golf course, golf
driving range or go-cart course, fish ranch or similar activity to the general
public, but does not include outdoor motion picture theaters, raceways, drag
strips or motorcycle courses.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of
wireless communications services.
   ANTENNA ELEMENT REPLACEMENT. The replacement of any part or all an antenna
or antenna array with a model of the same manufacturer and model type or close
specification.
   APPLICABLE CODES. The N.C. State Building Code uniform fire, building,
electrical, plumbing or mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code
organization together with state, Davie County or Town of Mocksville amendments
to those codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of destruction of
property or injury to persons.
   APPLICANT. Any person seeking approval under these regulations for any form
of development or use of land.
   ARCHITECT. A person licensed to practice architecture in the state.
   ARENA. A structure or facility designed and intended to be used primarily
for athletic events and containing seating for spectators of those events, but
not including a raceway or drag strip.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any object or material which is not a natural
obstruction, including any which, while not a significant obstruction in
itself, is capable of accumulating debris and thereby reducing the flood-
carrying capacity of a stream.
   ARTS AND CRAFTS STUDIO. The creation of objects in a studio, made one at a
time, by hand. The creation includes, but is not limited to, woodworking,
tinsmithing, silversmithing, pottery throwing, glass blowing, painting,
weaving, caning, metal working and sculpting.
   ASPHALT AND CONCRETE PLANT AND CONTRACTORS. A facility preparing asphalt
and/or concrete mixtures for street and driveway paving, including contractors
engaged in asphalt and/or cement work. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s):
 
2357   Concrete Contractors
324121 Asphalt Paving Mixture and Block Manufacturing
 
   AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE. A type of banking and financial services with
automated or self-service banking features with no staff or personnel provided.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. See MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   AWNING. A structure made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be raised or retracted from a
building to a flat position against the building, but not a canopy.
   BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES. A facility engaged in deposit banking or
extending credit in the form of loans. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s):
 
5221 Depository Credit Intermediation
5222 Non-depository Credit Intermediation
 
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobiles stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An owner-occupied residential building
providing rooms for temporary overnight lodging and meal(s) for more than
three, but not more than eight, guests on a paying basis.
   BEDROOM. A fully enclosed interior room as shown on the building plan for
the structure having, as a minimum, a doorway, window and closet.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen
undesirable views and/or decrease noise.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). (Applies only to the Watershed Overlay
District.) A structural or non-structural management-based practice used
singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source input to receiving
waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES, NON-STRUCTURAL. Non-structural BMPs are non-
engineered methods used to control the amount of non-point source pollution.
These may include land-use controls and vegetated buffers.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES, STRUCTURAL. Structural BMPs are engineered
structures that are designed to reduce the delivery of pollutants from their
source or to divert contaminants away from the water supply.
   BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE. An owner-occupied dwelling or part thereof, in
which lodging is provided to more than three, but not more than eight, paying
guests on a weekly or longer basis and where the rooms rented neither
individually nor collectively constitute separate dwelling units.
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903.
   BROADCAST STUDIO. An establishment primarily engaged in providing two-way
radio/telephone communication services, telephone voice and data
communications, telegraph services, radio and television broadcasting or cable
and other pay television services, but excluding those uses classified as
utilities. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS
group(s):
 
5131 Radio & Television Broadcasting
 
   BUFFER. (See also SCREENING.) A strip of land with natural or planted
vegetation, located between a structure or use and a side or rear property
line, intended to spatially separate and visually obstruct the view of two
adjacent land uses or properties from one another. A BUFFER AREA may include
any required screening for the site.
   BUILD-TO LINE. A line extending through a lot which is generally parallel to
the front property line and marks the location from which the principle
vertical plane of the front building elevation must be erected; intended to
create an even building facade line on a street. The BUILD-TO LINE is
established on the record plat (final plat).
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDING AREA. The area of a zoning lot remaining after the minimum setback
requirements of this article have been satisfied.
   BUILDING CONTRACTORS, GENERAL. An establishment providing general
contracting and/or building construction services for residential, farm,
industrial or commercial uses and which typically
does not involve outdoor storage of machinery or equipment. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
2351  Plumbing, Heating, Air-Conditioning Contractors
2352  Painting and Wall Covering Contractors
2353  Electrical Contractors
2354  Masonry, Drywall, Insulation and Tile Contractors
2355  Carpentry and Floor Contractors
2356  Roofing, Siding and Sheet Metal Contractors
23592 Glass and Glazing Contractors
23595 Building Equipment and Other Machinery Installation Contractors
23599 All Other Special Trade Contractors
 
   BUILDING CONTRACTORS, HEAVY. An establishment providing general contracting
and/or building construction services other than for buildings, such as
highways and streets, bridges, sewers and flood control projects and which may
involve outdoor storage of machinery or equipment. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
2341  Highway, Street, Bridge and Tunnel Construction Contractors
23491 Water, Sewer, Pipeline Construction Contractors
23591 Structural Steel Erection Contractors
23593 Excavation Contractors
23594 Wrecking and Demolition Contractors
 
   BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The outline of the total area covered by a building’s
exterior walls at the ground level.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See HEIGHT, BUILDING.
   BUILDING LINES. Lines that are tangent to the exterior surface of buildings
or structures or the surfaces of cantilevered projections therefrom, parallel
to front, side and rear lot lines and referred to as front, side and rear
building lines, respectively.
   BUILDING MATERIALS SUPPLY. An establishment engaged in selling lumber and a
general line of building materials and hardware to the public. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4441 Building Materials and Supplies Dealer (Retail)
 
   BUILDING PRESENTATION. The direction of the architectural front facade of a
building in relation to the street or public space.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located. In any residential district, any structure
containing a dwelling unit shall be deemed to be a PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the
lot on which it is located.
   BUILDING SITE. (See also DEVELOPMENT.) An area of land or property where
development is undertaken.
   BUILDING WALL. The entire surface area, including windows and doors, of an
exterior wall of a building. For the purposes of this article, the area of a
wall will be calculated for only the first three stories or 45 feet in height
of a building, whichever is less.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. (Applies only to the Watershed Overlay District.) Built-
upon areas shall include that portion of a development project and/or lots that
are covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including buildings,
pavement, gravel areas (e.g. roads, parking lots, paths), recreation facilities
(e.g., tennis courts) and the like. (NOTE: Wooden slatted decks and the water
area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   BULK STORAGE OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (TANK FARMS). The storage on a zoning lot
of 2,500 gallons water capacity or more of flammable liquid or 2,000 gallons
water capacity or more of flammable gas, excluding “storage tanks, above
ground” and “fuel dealers”, as defined herein. This definition includes all
uses listed in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4227 Petroleum and Petroleum Products Wholesalers
 
   BUS/TRANSIT SHELTER. A freestanding structure less than 100 square feet,
located on a bus transit route, which is designed to accommodate embarking and
disembarking bus transit passengers.
   CALIPER. The diameter measurement of a tree-trunk.
   CAMPGROUND. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.
   CANOPY. A structure, either detached from or attached to and extending from
the enclosed portion of a building and used principally to provide shelter in
connection with activities conducted in the principal building.
   CANOPY TREE. A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 35
feet or more with a minimum mature crown width of 30 feet and meets the
specifications of the American Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the
American Association of Nurserymen.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure enclosed on not more than two sides and used for
the parking of motor vehicles.
   CAR WASH, AUTOMATIC. An unattended, automated, mechanical facility for the
washing of automobiles, small recreational vehicles and light trucks wherein
the customer remains in the vehicle during the service.
   CAR WASH, FULL SERVICE. An attended facility wherein the customer pays for
the labor, materials and equipment necessary to wash or otherwise clean an
automobile, small recreational vehicle or light truck. This type of car wash
may or may not be partially automated. Typically, the customer does not remain
in the vehicle during the service.
   CAR WASH, INDUSTRIAL. Mechanical facilities for the washing, vacuuming and
waxing of large automobiles and heavy machinery.
   CAR WASH, SELF SERVICE. A car wash wherein the customer provides labor and
where no self-propelled wash racks are provided.
   CEMETERY. Land and facilities, including offices and chapels, used for the
burial of the dead.
   CEMETERY, LICENSED. Land and facilities used for burial of the dead meeting
the requirements of a perpetual care cemetery under state law. Such a facility
includes any burial ground, mausoleum or columbarium operated by a cemetery
company and meeting licensing requirements of the state.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued by the Zoning Administrator
setting forth that a lot, building, structure or use complies with the zoning
ordinance and that the same may be used for the purposes stated therein.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the Building Inspector
setting forth that a building, structure or use complies with all State
Building Codes in effect within the town’s jurisdiction.
   CHANGE OF USE. A change in the use of a structure or land for which a
certificate of compliance is required.
   CHARTER. The entire body of local acts currently in force applicable to the
Town of Mocksville, including articles of incorporation issued to the town by
an administrative agency of the state.
   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. A facility providing residential and non-residential
care for 13 or more children under the age of 21, who are handicapped or who
are without the benefit of parents who can provide for those children’s basic
physical, emotional, educational, spiritual and/or other special needs.
   CHURCH or RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A facility of a church, temple, synagogue
or other non-profit religious organization operated for worship and which may
include religious training or study.
   CHURCH OR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION - COMMUNITY SCALE. A church or religious
institution in which the seating capacity in the sanctuary or main activity
area is greater than 600 persons.
   CHURCH OR RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION - NEIGHBORHOOD SCALE. A church or religious
institution in which the seating capacity in the sanctuary or main activity
area is 600 persons or less.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients are admitted for examination and
treatment on an outpatient basis by one or more physicians, dentists,
psychologists, social workers or other medical personnel and are not lodged
overnight.
   CLINIC, VETERINARY. See VETERINARY SERVICES.
   CLOSE FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild. The term includes the step, half and in-law
relationships.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE NON-PROFIT. A building or land used for the
activities of a non-profit private club or social organization and not adjacent
to, operated as or in connection with a public tavern, café or other place open
to the public.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. A for profit establishment as defined in G.S. § 18B-1000(5)
which holds an ABC permit from the state.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings and built-upon areas in order
to conserve and/or protect natural resources and to provide for innovation in
the design of a development project.
   CLUSTER HOUSING. A development pattern where the dwelling units are grouped
or “clustered” on a density basis for the total land area of the development,
rather than spread evenly throughout the site on a lot by lot basis. A CLUSTER
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT includes permanent open space and greenways usually owned
and maintained by a homeowner’s association or developer.
   COLLECTOR STREET. See STREET, COLLECTOR.
   COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. An institution of higher education offering
undergraduate and/or graduate degrees.
   COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
town utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities.
   COMMUNICATION FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components,
including wires and cables and associated facilities used by a communications
service provider to provide communications service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6) (The
one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming, or other programming
service and subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such video programming or other programming service), and information
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24) (The term INFORMATION SERVICE means
the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming,
processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via
telecommunications, and includes electronic publishing, but does not include
any use of any such capability for the management, control, or operation of a
telecommunications system or the management of a telecommunications service),
and telecommunications service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53) (The term
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE means the offering of telecommunications for a fee
directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.), or
wireless services.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator as defined in
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and 47 U.S.C. § 522(5); a provider of information
service, as defined in COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and 47 U.S.C. § 153(24); a
telecommunications carrier, as defined in COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE and in 47
U.S.C. § 153(51); or a wireless provider.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A building used for recreational, social, educational and
cultural activities, open to the public and usually owned and operated by a
public or non-profit group or agency.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION TOWER. See TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan that has been officially adopted by
the Board of Commissioners pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
   CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY. A licensed multi-unit facility which provides
housing, part-time medical care, shared food preparation and dining areas and
recreational facilities, as well as significant social facilities to meet the
needs of the elderly. CONGREGATE CARE FACILITIES do not include nursing care
institutions or similar institutions devoted primarily to the care of the
chronically ill or incurable.
   CONSTRUCTION, START OF. The first placement of a structure, including a
manufactured home, on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns or any work at the point of
placing the foundation or beyond the state of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. This definition does not include the
installation of streets or walkways nor does it include the installation of
temporary buildings on the property, such as garages, sheds or trailers, not
part of the main structure nor occupied as dwelling units.
   CONTIGUOUS AREA. Any area which abuts directly on a subject property or is
separated from the subject property by a street or the right-of-way of a
railroad or other utility or public service corporation.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale gasoline,
diesel fuel, kerosene, automotive products, prepackaged food products,
household items and/or other goods commonly associated with the same and having
a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square feet.
   CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision which complies with the standard lot
dimensions of Section 6 of the Town Zoning Ordinance and the development
standards found in Sections 7.000 and 8.000 of the Town Subdivision Ordinance.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
   CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION. A jail or other institutional facility used to
confine and provide treatment or rehabilitation to violators of criminal laws,
including facilities for persons who are participating in supervised work-
release programs, whether the facilities provide confinement for all of each
24-hour period or only a portion thereof; but not including temporary holding
facilities that are accessory to a police station.
   COUNTY. Any one of the counties listed in G.S. § 153A-10.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. The area under a tree, which includes all land within
the drip-line of the tree. The drip-line is measured by a vertical line
extending from the outermost portion of a tree’s canopy to the ground.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET, MINOR.
   CULTURAL FACILITY. An indoor or outdoor theater, auditorium or other
building or structure designed, intended or used primarily for musical, dance,
dramatic or other live performances or a museum or gallery operated primarily
for the display, rather than the sale, of works of art.
   DAY CARE. Any child or adult care arrangement for three or more individuals
who receive care away from their primary residence by persons other than their
parents, children, grandparents, aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters, first
cousins, nieces, nephews, guardians or full-time custodians, where care is
provided on a regular basis at least once per week for more than four but less
than 24 hours per day.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A day care facility in which day care is provided for 13 or
more children when any child is preschool-age or sixteen or more other children
and/or adults.
   DAY CARE HOME, LARGE. A facility in which day care is provided for six to 12
preschool-age children or up to fifteen other children and/or adults.
   DAY CARE HOME, SMALL. An operation in which day care is provided for up to
five preschool-age children or up to eight other children and/or adults.
   DECIDUOUS. A plant or tree with foliage that is shed annually.
   DECISION-MAKING BOARD. A governing board, planning board, board of
adjustment, watershed review board, or other board assigned to make quasi-
judicial decisions under this chapter.
   DEED RESTRICTION. A restriction on the use of a lot or parcel of land that
is set forth in the deed and recorded with the County Register of Deeds. Also
known as a RESTRICTIVE COVENANT.
   DENSITY, GROSS RESIDENTIAL. The number of residential dwelling units per
acre of land, determined by dividing the number of dwelling units by the total
number of acres in the parcel to be developed.
   DENTAL LABORATORY. See MEDICAL OR DENTAL LABORATORY.
   DETENTION STRUCTURE. A permanent structure designed for the temporary
storage of storm water runoff in order to reduce the peak rate of discharge
from a site.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
   DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
   DEVELOPMENT. The carrying out of any building activity, the making of any
material change in the use or appearance of any structure or land or the
subdividing of land into two or more parcels.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (C) hereof, for the purposes of
these regulations, the following activities or uses shall be considered
DEVELOPMENT:
         (a)   The reconstruction, alteration of the size or material change in
the external appearance of a structure on land or water;
         (b)   A change in the intensity of use of land, such as an increase in
the number of dwelling units in a structure or on land or a material increase
in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices or dwelling
units in a structure or on land;
         (c)   Alteration of the shore or bank of a pond, lake, river or other
waterway;
         (d)   Commencement of drilling (except to obtain soil samples), mining
or excavation on a parcel of land;
         (e)   Clearing of land, including clearing or removal of vegetation
and including any significant disturbance of vegetation or soil manipulation;
or
         (f)   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of
land.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT includes all other activity customarily associated with
it. When appropriate to the context, DEVELOPMENT refers to the act of
developing or to the result of development. Reference to any specific operation
is not intended to mean that the operation or activity when part of other
operations or activities is not development. Reference to particular operations
is not intended to limit the generality of this definition.
      (3)   For the purposes of these regulations the following operations or
uses shall not be considered DEVELOPMENT; some may, however, require a zoning
permit:
         (a)   Work involving the maintenance, renewal, improvement or
alteration of any structure, if the work affects only the color or decoration
of the exterior of the structure or interior alterations that do not change the
use for which the structure was constructed;
         (b)   Work involving the maintenance or replacement of existing
landscaped areas and existing rights-of-way;
         (c)   A change in use of land or structure from a use within a
specified category of use to another use in the same category;
         (d)   A change in the ownership or form of ownership of any parcel or
structure;
         (e)   The creation or termination of rights of access, riparian
rights, easements, covenants concerning development of land or other rights in
land unless otherwise specifically required bylaw; or
         (f)   The clearing of survey cuts or other paths of less than four
feet in width.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits and variances. The
term also includes all other regulatory approvals required by regulations
adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D, including plat approvals, permits issued,
development agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. Any zoning regulation, subdivision regulation,
erosion and sedimentation control regulation, floodplain or flood damage
prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection regulation, stormwater control
regulation, wireless telecommunication facility regulation, historic
preservation or landmark regulation, housing code, State Building Code
enforcement, or any other regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D, or a
local act or charter that regulates land use or development.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. See BUILDING SITE.
   DISH ANTENNA (also referred to as an EARTH STATION). An accessory structure
that includes the following:
      (1)   An antenna or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive
communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier, which is situated at the focal point of the
receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify the transfer signals; and
      (3)   A coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the
interior of a building.
   DISTURBED AREA. An area subject to erosion due to the removal of vegetative
cover and/or earthmoving activities.
   DORMITORY. A building containing bathroom facilities available for common
use by the residents of the building, which is occupied or intended to be
occupied as the dwelling for more than six persons who are not related by
blood, marriage or adoption but who are enrolled in, affiliated with or
employed by the same educational, religious or health institution and which is
co-located with and subordinate to the institution. DORMITORY shall not include
a boarding house, motel, hotel, group home or health institution.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. See LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE WINDOW. A customer service facility located within the
principal structure as an accessory to an office or retail establishment which
is intended to enable the customer to transact business with a sales or service
representative located within the principal structure without exiting the motor
vehicle.
   DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDRY PLANTS. A building, portion of a building or
premises used for cleaning fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel or articles of
any sort by immersions in volatile solvents including, but not limited to
petroleum distillates and/or chlorinated hydrocarbons and any process
incidental thereto. This definition includes only those uses in the following
NAICS group(s)
 
8123 Drycleaning and Laundry Services
 
   DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDRY SERVICES. A building, portion of a building or
premises used for the collection and distribution of dry-cleaning or the
cleaning of fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel or articles of any sort without
the immersion of the articles in volatile solvents including, but not limited
to petroleum distillates and/or chlorinated hydrocarbons and any process
incidental thereto. It is intended that uses in this category shall not pose a
significant threat to the health and safety of the public or adjacent uses and
that such may legally discharge all liquid waste into a public sanitary sewer
or private septic system.
   DWELLING. A building that contains one or two dwelling units used, intended
or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied for
living purposes.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY, ATTACHED. A second dwelling unit connected to or
located within three feet of a residential building, which is restricted in
area, purpose and occupancy in accordance with this article.
   DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY, DETACHED. A dwelling unit located within an
accessory structure, which is located more than three feet from the principal
structure and is restricted in area, purpose and occupancy in accordance with
this article.
   DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY. A dwelling unit in which the sleeping and living
areas are contained in the same room.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights for a specific
purpose by the property owner to or for the use by, the public or another
person.
   EASEMENT, NEGATIVE ACCESS. An easement, which allows no driveway or other
vehicles, access to a lot from an adjacent public street.
   EASEMENT, SIGHT. An easement, which grants the right to maintain
unobstructed view across property, located at a street intersection.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Any business enterprise whether as a primary or
accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but not
limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games of chance,
including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of value are
redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether the value of such distribution is
determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds. ELECTRONIC
GAMING OPERATIONS may include but are not limited to, internet cafes, internet
sweepstakes, electronic gaming machines/operations, or cyber cafes. This does
not include any lottery approved by the State of North Carolina or any
nonprofit operation that is otherwise lawful under state law (for example,
church or civic organization fundraisers)
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST. A request for a modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that involves collocation of new transmission
equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not include a
substantial modification.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. A facility providing temporary housing for one or more
individuals who are temporarily or permanently homeless due to disaster,
evacuation or other similar civil emergency.
   ENGINEER. A person licensed to practice engineering in the state.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. An area surrounding or near the base of a wireless
support structure within which a wireless facility is located.
   EVERGREEN. A plant or tree with foliage that persists year-round.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material, and
substantial evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision
required by a development regulation adopted under G.S. Chapter 160D. Also
called a "quasi-judicial hearing".
   EXHIBITION BUILDING. A structure or facility designed, intended or used
primarily for public gatherings, indoor exhibitions, galleries or conventions.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. (Applies only to the Watershed Overlay District.)
      (1)   Existing development means projects that are built or projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under state zoning law as of the
effective date of the amendment incorporating water supply watershed
regulations into the town’s zoning ordinance based on at least one of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based
on a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval
to proceed with the project;
         (b)   Having an outstanding valid building permit; or
         (c)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan
under the provisions of § 3-2.2.
      (2)   For projects that require a state permit, such as landfills, NPDES
wastewater discharges, land application of residuals and road construction
activities, existing development shall be defined as those projects that are
built or those projects for which a state permit was issued prior to 8-3-1992.
   EXISTING LOT OF RECORD. (Applies only to the Watershed Overlay District.) A
lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the adoption of this article or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded
prior to the adoption of this article.
   EXPANSION OF AN EXISTING ANTENNA ARRAY. The addition of an antenna or
antenna array with a new manufacturer and/or model type and/or increases the
bandwidth of the antenna or antenna array.
   EXTERIOR FEATURES. The architectural style, general design and general
arrangement of the exterior of a structure, including the kind, texture and
color of building materials, the size and scale of the building and the type
and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant
fixtures and including the landscaping and natural features of the parcel
containing the structure.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building extending from grade to the top of
the parapet, wall or eaves that is exposed to public view.
   FAIRGROUNDS. An area of land use including, but not limited to: agricultural
related office buildings, animal judging shows, carnivals, circuses, community
meeting or recreational buildings and uses, concerts, food booths and stands,
games, rides, rodeos, sales and auctions, storage and theaters.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of not more
than six persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption living together as
a single housekeeping unit and domestic servants as are employed on the same
premises. A FAMILY may include five or fewer foster children placed in a family
foster home licensed by the state. The term FAMILY shall not be construed to
include any group of persons living together as a fraternal, sororal, social,
honorary or professional organization.
   FAMILY SUBDIVISION. (Applies only to the Watershed Overlay District.) A
division of a tract of land:
      (1)   To convey the resulting parcels, with the exception of parcels
retained by the grantor, to a relative or relatives as a gift or for nominal
consideration, but only if no more than one parcel is conveyed by the grantor
from the tract to any one relative: or
      (2)   To divide land from a common ancestor among tenants in common, all
of whom inherited by intestacy or by will.
   FARM PRODUCT SALES. Seasonal sale of farm products raised on the premises
where products are sold only as an accessory to an agricultural use.
   FARMER’S MARKET. The seasonal selling or offering for sale at retail of
vegetables or produce, occurring in a pre-designated area, where the vendors
are generally individuals who have raised the vegetables.
   FARMHOUSE CLUSTER. A rural subdivision for up to six house lots accessed by
a private drive.
   FEED AND FLOUR MILL. Establishments primarily engaged in milling flour or
meal from grains (except rice) or vegetables and/or milling flour and preparing
flour mixes or dough.
   FEED AND SEED STORE. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of
supplies directly related to the day to day activities of agricultural
production.
   FENCE OR WALL, OPAQUE. A vertical structure constructed of masonry,
concrete, metal or wooden material which does not allow light to pass through.
   FENESTRATION. The design and positioning of windows and doors in a building
or structure.
   FLAG. A piece of durable fabric of distinctive design attached to a
permanent pole, that is used as a symbol or decorative feature which represents
a country, state or other political subdivision.
   FLAMMABLE FUEL STORAGE (BELOW GROUND). The storage of flammable or other
hazardous liquids at a below grade location in compliance with applicable state
laws.
   FLEA MARKET. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or
structure where goods are offered for sale to the general public by individual
sellers from open facilities or temporary structures.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water over
topping stream banks and inundating areas adjacent to the watercourse.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP. An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the floodway and floodway
fringe areas. The maps also contain cross section information relevant to both
the floodway and floodway fringe areas with data available in official reports
supplied by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR. The channel and area abutting a watercourse, which
would be covered with water during a 100-year flood as designated by reports
and data provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and as shown on
the zoning map.
   FLOODPLAIN, 500-YEAR. The channel and area abutting a watercourse, which
would be covered with water during a 500-year flood as designated by reports
and data provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the channel and floodplain of a stream designated
by Federal Emergency Management Agency reports and data as adequate to provide
passage for the 100-year flood, without increasing the elevation of that flood
at any point by more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. An area lying outside the floodway, but within the
floodplain.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including the
basement) such as the top of the slab in concrete slab construction or the top
of the wood flooring in wood frame construction.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of the
principal building and any accessory buildings or structures, measured from the
exterior walls or from the center line of party walls. The term does not
include any area used exclusively for the surface parking of motor vehicles or
for building or equipment access, such as stairs, elevator shafts and
maintenance crawl space.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The total floor area of the building or buildings on
a lot or parcel divided by the gross area of the lot or parcel.
   FOOD AND BEVERAGE STORE. An establishment primarily engaged in selling food
or beverages for home preparation and consumption off premises. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s)
 
445 Food and Beverage Stores
 
   FREEWAY or EXPRESSWAY. A divided highway with full control of access and
grade separation of all intersections.
   FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
   FRONT YARD. See YARD, FRONT.
   FRONTAGE, LOT. The lot boundary which coincides with a public street or
space.
   FRONTAGE, BUILDING. The facade of a structure facing the street.
   FRONTAGE BUILDOUT. The portion of lot frontage which has a building or wall
running parallel to it.
   FUEL DEALER. An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of fuel
oil (excluding retail sale of motor fuels), bottled gas, coal, wood or other
fuels. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group
(s):
 
45431 Direct Selling Establishments, Fuel Dealers
 
   FUNERAL HOME. An establishment engaged in undertaking services, such as
preparing the human dead for burial and in arranging and managing funerals.
This definition includes crematories and mortuaries. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
8122 Death Care Services
 
   GARAGE, PRIVATE (RESIDENTIAL). A building housing not more than the number
of vehicles in use by the family occupying the main structure to which the
private garage is attached or detached, and in which space may be used for an
incidental home occupation.
   GASOLINE STATION, LARGE. A retail establishment which primarily sells
gasoline to the public and which may include a convenience store, garages for
passenger vehicle repair with associated vehicle storage areas and an automatic
carwash as accessory uses.
   GASOLINE STATION, NEIGHBORHOOD. A retail establishment which primarily sells
gasoline to non-commercial vehicle operators, having no more than two canopies
and eight separate pumping stations and providing only minor passenger vehicle
repairs.
   GENERAL RETAIL. See RETAIL, GENERAL.
   GOLF COURSE. An area designed for golf, including a par 3 golf course,
having at least nine holes, each with a tee, fairway and green and may have one
or more hazards. A clubhouse, pool and other facilities associated with a
country club built around a golf course are considered part of the golf course.
   GOLF DRIVING RANGE. An open air golf practice facility.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICES. The offices of the executive, legislative, judicial,
administrative and regulatory branches of federal, state and local governments.
This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
92 Public Administration
 
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Mocksville.
   GRADE. The elevation of the land or land which is level at a specific point.
   GRADE, EXISTING. The elevation along the ground surface of a site as
recorded in topographic mapping at two-foot or four-foot contour intervals, on
file in the office of the Planning Department or as surveyed and mapped at a
contour interval of not more than four feet, by a licensed surveyor.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The elevation at the top of the ground, walk or terrace
where the ground, walk or terrace intersects the exterior walls of a structure
or the vertical supports of a sign.
   GREENWAY. A linear open space along a natural or constructed corridor, which
may be used for pedestrian or bicycle passage. GREENWAYS often link areas of
activity, such as parks, cultural features or historic sites with each other
and with populated areas.
   GROUND COVER. Any plant material that reaches an average height of not more
than 12 inches.
   GROUND LEVEL. For floodway purposes, the existing average elevation of the
land.
   GROUND SIGN. See SIGN, GROUND MOUNTED.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY A. A transitional housing facility for 40 or fewer
residents, licensed by the state and operated by a nonprofit corporation
chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides room and board, personal
care and rehabilitation services while persons receive therapy and/or
counseling for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   To assist them to recuperate from the effects of or refrain from
the use of drugs or alcohol;
      (2)   To provide emergency and temporary shelter for persons in distress
such as runaway children and battered individuals; and
      (3)   To provide shelter and support for older adults and persons who are
handicapped. A GROUP CARE FACILITY shall not serve primarily as an alternative
to incarceration. Such facilities may have accessory uses conducted on the
premises, including, but not limited to, schooling of residents, training
programs in occupational fields and production of goods and crafts to be sold
off-premises.
      This use does not include a TEMPORARY STRUCTURE or a HABILITATION
FACILITY as defined in this section.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY B (CORRECTIONAL GROUP CARE FACILITY). A transitional
housing facility for 40 or fewer residents, licensed by the state or operated
by a nonprofit corporation chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides
room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services while persons receive
therapy or counseling to assist them to adjust to society as an alternative to
incarceration, but not including a TEMPORARY STRUCTURE or a HABILITATION
FACILITY as defined in this section. Such facilities may have accessory uses
conducted on the premises, including, but not limited to, schooling of
residents, training programs in occupational fields, and production of goods
and crafts to be sold off-premises.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY C (THERAPEUTIC C0MMUNITY). A transitional housing
facility for 200 or fewer residents, licensed by the state and operated by a
nonprofit corporation chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides room
and board, personal care and rehabilitation services while persons receive
therapy and/or counseling primarily to assist them to recuperate from the
effects of or refrain from the use of drugs or alcohol, and/or to assist them
to adjust to society as an alternative to incarceration, but not including a
TEMPORARY STRUCTURE or a HABILITATION FACILITY as defined in this section. Such
facilities may have accessory uses conducted on the premises, including, but
not limited to, schooling of residents, training programs in occupational
fields, and production of goods and crafts to be sold off-premises.
   GROUP HOME A. A transitional housing facility with support and supervisory
personnel licensed by the state and operated by a non-profit corporation
chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides room and board, personal
care and rehabilitation services in a supportive family environment for not
more than six residents, exclusive of supervisory personnel, including, but not
limited to,
handicapped persons, older adults, foster children and abused individuals. This
use shall include family care homes, as defined in G.S. § 168-21. This use
shall not serve primarily as an alternative to incarceration, shall not include
individuals who are dangerous to others, as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)(b) and
shall not include persons living together as a fraternal, sororal, social,
honorary or professional organization.
   GROUP HOME B. A transitional housing facility with support and supervisory
personnel licensed by the state and operated by a non-profit corporation
chartered pursuant to G.S. Ch. 55A, which provides room and board, personal
care and rehabilitation services in a supportive family environment for not
more than 12 residents, exclusive of supervisory personnel, including, but not
limited to, handicapped persons, older adults, foster children and abused
individuals. This unit shall not serve primarily as an alternative to
incarceration, shall not include individuals who are dangerous to others, as
defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)(b) and shall not include persons living together
as a fraternal, sororal, social, honorary or professional organization.
   HABILITATION FACILITY A. Any facility in which one to eight handicapped
persons receive habilitation services, rehabilitation services or engage in
recreational activities, regardless of whether these services and activities
are therapeutic or educational in nature. These facilities are licensed by the
state and do not provide room and board. This definition does not include the
principal uses schools, elementary or schools, secondary. These facilities are
intended to serve handicapped persons as defined in state law, in accordance
with rights provided by applicable laws.
   HABILITATION FACILITY B. Any facility in which more than eight handicapped
persons receive habilitation services, rehabilitation services or engage in
recreational activities, regardless of whether these services and activities
are therapeutic or educational in nature. These facilities are licensed by the
state and do not provide room and board. This definition does not include the
principal uses schools, elementary or schools, secondary. These facilities are
intended to serve handicapped persons as defined in state law, in accordance
with rights provided by applicable laws.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person with a physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more of the person’s life activities; a record of
having the impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment. This
definition does not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled
substance. This definition includes Willie M. children, but does not include
persons who are dangerous to others as defined by G.S. § 122C-3(11)(b).
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in the Superfund Amendments
and Reauthorization Act (SARA) § 302, Extremely Hazardous Substances; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA),
Hazardous Substances; § 311 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) (oil and hazardous
substances); or any solid waste or combination of solid wastes, which because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TREATMENT FACILITY. A building, structure or use of land
devoted or intended to be devoted, primarily to changing by any method,
technique or process, including incineration or neutralization, the physical,
chemical or biological character of any hazardous material so as to neutralize
the material or render it non-hazardous, safer for transport, amenable for
recovery, amenable for storage or reduced in bulk. Such a use may also contain
temporary storage facilities normally associated with these operations and of
sufficient size to conduct a commercially feasible operation. However, under no
circumstances is a hazardous materials treatment facility to be construed to be
any of the following:
      (1)   A facility which manufactures hazardous materials from component
non-hazardous materials;
      (2)   A facility or location for the long term or perpetual storage of
hazardous materials; or
      (3)   A facility for the treatment of hazardous materials which is
clearly subordinate, incidental and related to the principal structure,
building or use of land and is located on the same lot as the principal
structure, building or use.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical defined as a physical hazard or a health
hazard under standards of NCAC 7C.0101(a)(105). Physical hazards include, but
are not limited to, chemicals, which are combustible, explosive, flammable and
reactive. Health hazards include, but are not limited to, chemical, which are
carcinogens, toxins, corrosives or irritants.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any commercial hazardous waste facility
which accepts hazardous waste from the general public or from another person
for a fee, but does not include any facility owned or operated by a generator
of hazardous waste solely for its own use. A HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY means a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste. This definition includes hazardous
materials treatment facilities as defined herein.
   HEALTH SERVICES, MISCELLANEOUS. This class of use includes outpatient care
centers such as kidney dialysis centers, blood banks, birth control clinics,
mental health and drug treatment centers and similar uses. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s)
 
6214  Outpatient Care Centers
6215  Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories
62199 All Other Ambulatory Health Care Services
 
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the finished grade of all sides of a building, measured at the midpoint of
each side, to the topmost elevation of the  roof or to the topmost projection
of the building above any roof, including parapet walls. Enclosed penthouses or
equipment rooms are considered a part of the building and included in the
calculation of building height.
   HELICOPTER LANDING PAD. The designated takeoff and landing area from which
helicopter departures and approaches are intended to originate or terminate.
   HELIPORT. A helicopter terminal facility for general public transportation
with support facilities. The word HELIPORT shall mean an area on the ground
used by helicopters, which may include, in addition to the landing pad,
passenger and cargo facilities, maintenance, overhaul, fueling, service and
storage facilities, tie-down areas, hangars, parking and other necessary
buildings and open spaces. The term HELIPORT includes the terms heliports and
public-use heliport used in Federal Aviation Administration publications.
   HELISTOP. A limited use helicopter terminal facility that is clearly
subordinate to a related business, institution or other operation. The word
HELISTOP shall mean an area, either on the ground or on a building and shall
include the landing pad used by helicopters for the purpose of picking up or
discharging passengers or cargo, routine maintenance facilities, parking area,
fuel pumping facilities (only if the activity is approved by the appropriate
agencies) and storage or hangar facilities, but no other accessory facilities.
The term HELISTOP includes the terms private-use heliport and personal-use
heliport contained in Federal Aviation Administration publications, except for
the limitations on the facility as noted in this definition.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. A business, profession, occupation or trade which is
conducted within a residential building or accessory structure for the economic
gain or support of a resident of the dwelling and which is incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the building.
   HOSPITAL. A facility providing medical, psychiatric or surgical services for
sick or injured persons, including emergency treatment, diagnostic services,
training, research and administration. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s)
 
622 Hospitals
 
   HOTEL. A building containing more than four individual rooms for the purpose
of providing overnight lodging facilities to the general public for
compensation, with or without meals and which has common facilities for
reservations and cleaning services, combined utilities and on-site management
and reception services. HOTELS may or may not provide on-site parking and
access to hotel rooms is generally provided through interior hallways.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVER. Any structure or material which significantly
reduces or prevents natural absorption of storm water into the soil. IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE COVER includes any built upon area including, but not limited to,
buildings or other structures with roofs, sidewalks, driveways, parking lots,
streets and any concrete, stone, brick, asphalt or gravel surface. For purposes
of calculating impervious surface coverage requirements pursuant to the zoning
ordinance, wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are
considered pervious.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any structure or constructed feature not included under the
definition of structure.
   INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY. An unlicensed facility providing living
arrangements for the elderly and their spouses in single-family, duplex or
multi-family units designed to allow a predominately independent lifestyle
within the framework of a larger, unified, health maintenance environment.
   INFILL DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a building on a vacant parcel
located in a predominately built up area.
   JAIL. A building and all accessory uses and structures, used to confine,
house and supervise persons who are serving terms of imprisonment for
violations of criminal laws or who are awaiting trial for alleged violations of
criminal laws, but not including temporary holding facilities that are
accessory to a police station and not including any housing or other facilities
for persons who are participating in work-release programs or who have
previously served and completed terms of imprisonment for violations of
criminal laws.
   JUNKYARD. The use of more than 600 square feet of the area of any lot for
the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other
scrap materials or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of
automobiles or other vehicles, machinery or parts thereof regardless of whether
the material is for sale.
   KENNEL. A use or structure intended and used for the breeding or
accommodation of small domestic animals for sale and/or for the training or
overnight boarding of animals for persons other than the owner of the lot. This
definition shall not include a veterinary clinic in which the overnight
boarding of animals is necessary for or accessory to the testing and medical
treatment of the physical disorders of animals.
   LANDFILL, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION. A landfill which accepts construction
or demolition debris or waste including solid waste from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations on pavement, buildings or other
structures.
   LANDFILL, LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS (LCID). A landfill that is limited
to receiving land clearing waste, concrete, brick, concrete block,
uncontaminated soil, gravel and rock, untreated and unpainted wood and yard
trash.
   LANDFILL, SANITARY. A facility for the disposal of all types of solid
wastes, excluding hazardous wastes or toxic substances.
   LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the Davie County tax records to determine
who is a LANDOWNER. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid
option, lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or
representative for the purpose of making applications for development
approvals.
   LANDSCAPING. The installation and maintenance of trees, shrubs, plant
materials and/or ground cover, including grass, mulch, decorative stone and
similar materials, but excluding bare soil, uncultivated vegetation, impervious
pavement materials and gravel.
   LARGE MATURING TREE. A tree whose height is greater than 35 feet at maturity
and meets the specification of American Standards for Nursery Stock, published
by the American Association of Nurserymen. See also CANOPY TREE.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person licensed to practice landscape architecture in
the state.
   LAUNDRY AND LINEN SUPPLY SERVICE. Establishments primarily engaged in
supplying laundered items, such as table and bed linens, towels, diapers and
types of uniforms.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under G.S. Chapter 160D or an applicable local act that is not an evidentiary
hearing.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LIBRARY, PUBLIC. A publicly operated facility housing a collection of books,
magazines, audio and video tapes or other material for use by the general
public.
   LINEAR FRONTAGE. The length of a property abutting a public right-of-way
from one side lot line to another.
   LIVESTOCK SALES AND AUCTIONS. A commercial establishment where livestock are
collected for sale or auction.
   LOCAL ACT. An act of the General Assembly applying to one or more specific
cities by name, or to all cities within one or more specifically named
counties.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city or county, including the Town of Mocksville.
   LOGO. A business trademark or symbol.
   LOT. A parcel of land or any combination of several parcels of land occupied
or intended to be occupied by a principal use or structure, together with any
accessory structures or uses and the accessways, parking area, yards and open
spaces required in these regulations.
   LOT, ADJACENT. See ADJACENT PROPERTY.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets or
abutting a curved street or streets in such a way that the front building line
meets either side lot line at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of the lot area, expressed as a percent that is
covered by impervious surface cover.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage and access on two or more public
streets. A corner lot shall not be considered as having DOUBLE FRONTAGE unless
it has frontage and access on three or more streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on only one
street.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two or more streets, one of
which is a minor or less important street in the community, the access to which
is restricted to the minor street.
   LOT, THROUGH. See LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
   LOT LINE. A line or series of connected line segments bounding a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line which separates the lot from a street right-of-
way. Corner lots shall have only one FRONT LOT LINE.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line, which separates one lot from another
lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, except in the case of a triangular lot, a line ten feet in
length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from
the front lot line or a chord thereof if the front lot line is curved, shall be
considered as the rear lot line for purposes of determining the required rear
yard. In cases where neither of these conditions is applicable, the Zoning
Administrator shall designate the rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. A lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by plat or by metes and bounds which has been
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines at the
building setback line as measured along a straight line parallel to the front
lot line or parallel to the chord thereof.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel or contiguous parcels of land which is indicated by
the owner at the time of application for a building or zoning permit as being
that land which is proposed for development under a single development plan.
   MAINTAINED EASEMENT. A recorded right-of-way made of crushed gravel,
pavement or graded and cleared of brush, so as to permit access by vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that:
      (1)   Is not constructed in accordance with the standards of the State
Building Code for one- and two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Is composed of one or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the home site on its own chassis; and
      (3)   Exceeds 40 feet in length and eight feet in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976,
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria, the intent
of which is to ensure that a Class A manufactured home, when installed, shall
have substantially the appearance of an on-site, conventionally built, single-
family dwelling:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times its
width, with the length measured along the longest axis and width measured at
the narrowest part of the other axis;
      (2)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of two and two-tenths feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard
residential construction;
      (3)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than six inches, which may include a gutter;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint, wood or hardboard comparable in composition, appearance and durability
to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (5)   The home is placed on a permanent masonry foundation, not to
include unfinished concrete block. The foundation wall shall be continuous and
unpierced except for ventilation as required by the state regulations for
manufactured/mobile homes; and
      (6)   The towing tongue shall be removed upon final placement of unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976,
that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction, but which does not meet the definition of a Class A manufactured
home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A development site, whether a single parcel or
multiple contiguous parcels, containing spaces leased or intended to be leased
for occupancy by manufactured homes used as residential dwellings regardless of
whether the homes are provided as part of the lease and including all uses
accessory to the residential use. This definition shall not include
manufactured home sales lots on which unoccupied manufactured homes are parked
for the purpose of inspection and sale.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. The land in a manufactured home park allotted to or
designated for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. Any parcel of land which is subdivided, with
utilities extended for the installation or placement of manufactured homes.
   MANUFACTURING A. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
fabrication or assembly of products from pre-structured materials or
components. Because of the nature of its operations and products, Manufacturing
A produces little or no noise, odor, vibration, glare and/or air and water
pollution and, therefore, has minimal impact on surrounding properties. This
definition may include the uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
3149   Other Textile Product Mills
315    Apparel Manufacturing
335991 Motorcycle, Bicycle and Parts Manufacturing
3369   Other Transportation Equipment
3399   Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing
 
   MANUFACTURING B. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
manufacture of foodstuffs, textiles, electrical components or tobacco products
and the fabrication of wood, leather, paper, water or plastic products. Because
of the nature of its operations and products, Manufacturing B could impact
immediately adjoining properties due to noise, odor, vibration, glare and/or
air and water pollution. This definition may include the uses in the following
NAICS group(s):
3119 Other Food Manufacturing
3122 Tobacco Manufacturing
313  Textile Mills
3169 Other Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing
3219 Other Wood Product Manufacturing
322  Paper Manufacturing
3231 Printing and Related Support Activities
3261 Plastics Product Manufacturing
3341 Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing
3342 Communications Equipment Manufacturing
3343 Audio and Video Equipment
3344 Semiconductor and other electronic component manufacturing
3351 Electric Lighting Equipment Manufacturing
3353 Electrical Equipment Manufacturing
337  Furniture and Related Products Manufacturing
3391 Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing
 
   MANUFACTURING C. A manufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the
processing and manufacturing of materials or products not otherwise classified
under Manufacturing A, Manufacturing B or other use defined in this section.
Manufacturing C includes the processing and manufacturing of  products from
extracted or raw materials, the assembly of large or heavy machinery and the
storing or using of flammable, explosive, hazardous or toxic materials in the
manufacturing processes. Because of the nature of its operations and products,
Manufacturing C may impact surrounding properties due to noise, odor,
vibration, glare and/or air and water pollution. This definition may include
the uses in the following NAICS group(s):
3133   Textile and Fabric Finishing and Fabric Coating Mills
3161   Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing
321114 Wood Preservation
3212   Veneer, Plywood and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing
3221   Pulp, Paper and Paper Board
3241   Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing
3259   Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing
3262   Rubber Product Manufacturing
3271   Clay Product and Refractory Manufacturing
3272   Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing
3279   Other Non-metallic Mineral Product Manufacturing
331    Primary Metal Manufacturing
3329   Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing
3333   Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing
3353   Electrical Equipment Manufacturing
3359   Other Equipment and Component Manufacturing
3369   Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing
 
   MASSAGE AND BODY WORK THERAPY. Any massage or body work therapy as defined
by the State Massage and Bodywork Therapy Practice Act, G.S. §§ 90-621 et seq.,
provided by a person licensed as provided therein to perform the therapy.
   MASSING. The shape and form a building or assemblage of buildings assumes
through architectural design.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other
datum, to which base flood elevations shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
for the county are referenced.
   MEAT PACKING PLANT. An establishment primarily engaged in the slaughtering
of cattle, hogs, sheep, lambs and calves for meat to be sold or to be used on
the same premises in canning, cooking, curing and freezing and in making
sausage, lard and other products. The definition includes all uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
3116 Animal Slaughtering and Processing
 
   MEDICAL OR DENTAL LABORATORY. An establishment primarily engaged in
providing professional analytic or diagnostic services to the medical
profession or to the patient, on direction of a physician; or an establishment
primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth and orthodontic
appliances to order for the dental profession. This definition includes only
those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
6215 Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories
3391 Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing
 
   MEDICAL AND SURGICAL OFFICES. An establishment primarily engaged in
furnishing medical and surgical services to individuals and licensed for the
practice by the state. This definition includes only those uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
6211 Offices of Physicians
6212 Offices of Dentists
6213 Offices of Other Health Practitioners
 
   MICRO-BREWERY/MICRO-DISTILLERY/MICRO-WINERY. A facility in which beer, wine,
or other alcoholic beverages are brewed, fermented, or distilled for
distribution and consumption, and which possesses the appropriate license from
the State of North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, meeting all
of the standards of G.S. 18B, and associated tasting rooms, brewpubs,
restaurants, and food trucks for the consumption of on-site produced beer,
wine, or distilled products are permitted on the premises. Micro-breweries
shall not exceed production of 25,000 barrels as defined by G.S. 81A-9. A
micro-distillery produces less than 50,000 proof gallons of spirits per year
according to the American Distilling Institute. Micro-wineries primarily source
fruit from local farms but do not farm fruit on site and do not exceed the
equivalent of 50,000 gallons. Any beverage production facility that exceeds the
production thresholds established in this definition shall be classified as
Beverage Manufacturing under the definition of MANUFACTURING B.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MIXED USE BUILDING. The combination of both commercial and residential uses
within a single building of two or more stories, wherein at least 50% of the
heated floor area contains residential dwelling unit(s).
   MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. A planned development where two or more use
categories (commercial, residential, industrial, institutional and the like)
are incorporated on a single development site.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. See MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit which is constructed in compliance with the
State Building Code and composed of components substantially assembled in an
off-site manufacturing plant and  transported to the building site for final
assembly on a permanent foundation or other acceptable means established by the
State Building Code.
   MOTEL. A building containing more than four individual rooms for the purpose
of providing overnight lodging facilities to the general public for
compensation, with or without meals and which has common facilities for
reservations and cleaning services, combined utilities and on-site management
and reception services. MOTELS provide on-site parking and access to most rooms
is provided directly from a parking area.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designated to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled
vehicle. For purposes of this definition, the term motor vehicle shall not
include vehicles or implements used in farming or construction but shall
include all forms of motorized watercraft.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, INOPERATIVE. A motor vehicle which meets at least one of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Vehicle is presently unable to satisfy the vehicle inspection
standards of the state, regardless of whether the vehicle possesses a currently
valid inspection certificate;
      (2)   Vehicle lacks a current inspection certificate or displays an
expired certificate;
      (3)   Vehicle is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (4)   Vehicle cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (5)   Vehicle has expired license plate or is unlicensed.
   MOTOR VEHICLE BODY OR PAINT SHOP. An establishment primarily engaged in body
work, painting or customizing of automobiles or other motor vehicles. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
81112 Automotive Body, Paint, Interior and Glass Repair
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE DISMANTLING AND WRECKING YARD. Any open area of more than 200
square feet used for storing or dismantling inoperative motor vehicles. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4211 Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and Supplies Wholesaler
4219 Miscellaneous Durable Goods Wholesalers
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. An establishment engaged in providing
mechanical automotive maintenance and repair, such as engine repair, exhaust
system replacement and transmission repair and/or providing other related
services, such as upholstery or glass replacement. This use includes service
stations but does not include body work or painting. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
8111  Automotive Repair and Maintenance
81112 Automotive Body, Paint, Interior and Glass Repair
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE SALES, RENTAL AND LEASING. Any use where automobiles, other
motor vehicles or manufactured homes are stored and/or displayed for the
purpose of sale or lease as an entire or complete unit. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4411  Automobile Dealers
4412  Other Motor Vehicle Dealers
45393 Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers
5321  Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing
 
   MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE YARD. An outdoor area for the storage of more than one
wrecked, damaged or inoperative motor vehicle awaiting insurance adjustment,
major body work or other repair or other disposition. This definition does not
include Motor Vehicle Parts, Used, NAICS group 5015 and Waste Materials, NAICS
group 5093.
   MULTIPLE BUILDING SITE. A group of two or more non-residential buildings
established on a single development tract, having unified design of buildings
and coordinated organization of open space, parking and service areas.
   MULTI-FAMILY. See RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, MULTI-FAMILY.
   MUSEUM or ART GALLERY. A structure used for the display and preservation of
paintings, sculpture and other constructed or natural objects illustrating
human or natural history. This definition includes only those uses in the
following NAICS group(s):
 
7121 Museums, Historical Sites and Similar Institutions
 
   NAICS. North American Industry Classification System, 1997.
   NATURAL OBSTRUCTION. Any rock, tree, gravel or similar natural matter which
is an obstruction and has been located within the floodway by a non-human
cause.
   NEIGHBORHOOD RECREATION AREA. Public or private tennis, basketball or other
courts, swimming pools or similar indoor and/or outdoor uses that are operated
on a fee or membership basis primarily for the use of persons who reside in a
specific area or neighborhood in which the facility is located. NEIGHBORHOOD
RECREATION AREAS may include accessory uses such as snack bars, pro shops and
locker rooms, which are designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons
of the principal recreational use.
   NIT. A unit measure of luminance or brightness equal to one candela per
square meter, measured perpendicular to the rays of the source.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. Any lot of record which does not meet the dimensional
requirements established in these regulations as adopted or amended.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure which does not comply with all of
the standards and regulations of this article as adopted or amended.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any use of land or buildings which does not comply with
all of the regulations of this article as adopted or amended.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   NON-STORE RETAIL. See RETAIL, NON-STORE.
   NURSERY, LAWN AND GARDEN SUPPLY STORE, RETAIL. An establishment primarily
engaged in the retail sale of trees, shrubs, other plants, seeds, bulbs,
mulches, soil conditioners, fertilizers, pesticides, garden tools and other
garden supplies to the general public. These establishments primarily sell
products purchased from others, but may sell some plants, which are grown at
the establishment. This definition includes only those uses in the following
NAICS group(s):
 
4442 Lawn and Garden Equipment and Supplies Store
 
   NURSING CARE INSTITUTION. A licensed healthcare facility, however named,
governmental or non-governmental, which provides in-patient care to six or more
non-related persons for whom planned and continued medical or nursing attention
or both, are indicated in contrast to the occasional or incidental care
provided in congregate care facilities. A NURSING CARE INSTITUTION may be
designed and marketed specifically for the elderly, physically handicapped or
both, but not specifically for mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others
as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)(b).
   OFF-STREET PARKING. Parking which occurs on a lot and not on a street or
other public right-of-way.
   OFFICE. A use or structure in which business or professional services are
conducted or rendered.
   OFFICE, MISCELLANEOUS. Office uses not specifically listed and defined
elsewhere in this article as a principal use.
   OFFICES, PROFESSIONAL. See PROFESSIONAL OFFICES.
   OPEN SPACE. Land used for recreation, natural resource protection,
amenities, protection of important rural and town vistas and/or buffer yards.
OPEN SPACE may include, but is not limited to, lawns, walkways, active
recreation areas, playgrounds, wooded areas and greenways.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Open space within a development not in individually
owned lots, which is designated and intended for the common use or enjoyment of
the residents of the development or the public at large.
   OPTICAL SERVICES. An establishment where health practitioners engage in the
practice of optometry by providing patients with eye examinations to determine
visual acuity or the presence of visual problems. OPTICAL SERVICES also include
the prescription and sale of the products as eye glasses, contacts or other
instruments intended to enhance visual perception.
   ORTHOPEDIC SUPPLY HOUSES. A place where prosthetic appliances, surgical
dressings, crutches, surgical sutures and personal industrial safety devices
are prepared and distributed.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY, RETAIL. An establishment primarily engaged in selling motor
vehicles, trucks, manufactured homes, recreational vehicles, boats or other
large items, which require outdoor display. This definition includes only those
uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4539 Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers
4411 Automobile Dealers
4412 Other Motor Vehicle Dealers
 
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Any light source that is installed or mounted outside of
an enclosed building, but not including street lights installed or maintained
along public or private streets.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA. Any area which contains trash collection areas or
dumpsters, open air docks, outdoor storage of bulk materials and/or parts or
areas regularly used for outdoor repair areas or service stations, but
excluding temporary construction and related activities and closed bay docks.
   OUTPARCEL. A separately leased or owned lot developed apart from, but linked
functionally to a larger development site.
   PACKAGE SEWER TREATMENT PLANT. A pre-fabricated set of devices used in the
storage, treatment and ultimate discharge or reclamation of sanitary sewer or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature.
   PARAPET WALL. A building wall which extends to or above a flat roofed
platform or building roof.
   PARCEL. See LOT.
   PARK. Any land owned by the public and open for use by the general public
for active or passive recreational purposes or as a refuge for wildlife.
   PARK, NEIGHBORHOOD. A town or county owned park intended to serve the
recreational needs of people living or working within a one-half mile radius of
the park.
   PARK, REGIONAL. A town or county owned park intended to serve the
recreational needs of all residents of the town and perhaps a large portion of
the county with activities and natural features not included in most other
types of parks and often based on a specific natural feature or scenic or
recreational opportunity.
   PARKING, LOT OR DECK. A principal or accessory use of a zoning lot with or
without a parking structure for use as a place for the temporary or long-term
parking of motor vehicles.
   PAWN OR PAWN TRANSACTION. A written bailment of personal property as
security for debt, redeemable on certain terms within one hundred-eighty days,
unless renewed, and with an implied power of sale on default.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in the business of lending money on the
security of pledged goods and who may also purchase merchandise for resale from
dealers and traders.
   PAWNSHOP. The location at which, or the premises in which, a pawnbroker
regularly conducts business.
   PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT. Any development type which accommodates the
needs of the pedestrian. The development will have parking to the side or rear
of a building, will mix uses and provide them in proximity to one another, will
allow the pedestrian the option of accomplishing certain trips without
automobile use and will provide a variety of interesting and detailed
streetscapes which equally balance the need of the pedestrian and car.
   PERENNIAL STREAM. A stream or creek containing a continuous natural flow of
water throughout the year except possibly under exceptionally dry conditions
and identified on 7.5 minute United States Geological Survey Quadrangle Maps by
solid blue lines.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public
or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private
institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State of North Carolina
and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. An establishment primarily engaged in providing a service
(s) to individuals such as a beauty and/or barber shop, a dry-cleaning
establishment, advertising or computer services but shall not include any use
which may be defined as adult entertainment. Personal Services include the
following list of uses:
 
81143 Footwear and Leather Goods Repair
8121  Personal Care Services
8123  Dry Cleaning and Laundry Services, excluding Dry Cleaning and Laundry
      Plants
8129  Other Professional Services except 81293
5617  Services to Buildings and Dwellings
5419  Other Professional, Scientific and Technical Services except 54194
      Veterinary Services
 
   PERVIOUS SURFACE COVER. A surface cover that presents an opportunity for
precipitation to infiltrate into the ground.
   PHARMACY. A place where drugs and medicines are prepared and dispensed by
prescription from a hospital, medical or dental clinic.
   PLANNED MIXED CONDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT (PMCD). A Planned Development
primarily intended for single-family developments. A maximum of 20% of the
total land of the development may be utilized for multi-family or non-
residential uses; or 15% of the land may be utilized for a combination of
lodging and other non-residential uses. The compatibility, location, and
appropriateness of any multi-family or non-residential uses proposed shall be
carefully considered. Commercial uses and the overall site plan may be
permitted and approved with conditions approved by the Mocksville Board of
Commissioners. It is the policy of the town to rezone property now zoned OSR,
NR and HC only to this district.
   PLANTING YARD. Area where required plantings are located.
   PLAT. A surveyed map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided.
   PLAZA. An urban open space, constructed entirely or largely of hard-surfaced
paving blocks, stone, brick or similar materials, framed on at least two sides
by the vertical rise of building walls; occasionally framed by closely planted
large maturing trees in lieu of buildings. May be used for occasional parking
in front of a civic or public building.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. An area of a minimum contiguous size, as specified
herein, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained according to approved
plans as a single entity and containing one or more structures with appurtenant
common areas.
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. A Planned Development consisting primarily
of retail, service, commercial or office uses or a combination of the uses and
appurtenant common areas and accessory uses incidental to the principle uses
within the development.
   PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. A planned development consisting primarily
of industrial uses, but which may also include retail service and recreational
uses to accommodate employees of the principle industrial uses within the
development.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the Town of Mocksville established
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301.
   POST OFFICE. A facility or structure used for the collection, sorting and
distribution of mail within several zip code areas, having retail services for
the general public, such as stamps, postcards or postal insurance.
   POSTAL FACILITY, NEIGHBORHOOD. A facility that has: distribution boxes
(cluster boxes) and collection services for the general public; no mail
carriers or retail services; and, is located in a neighborhood where most of
the users are within walking distance of the facility.
   PREMISES. See LOT.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure containing the
principal use of the lot.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
proposed to serve.
   PROCESSING FACILITY. A building or an enclosed space used for the collection
and processing of recyclable material or for the purpose of re-preparation of
materials for efficient shipment.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES. An establishment primarily engaged in providing:
engineering, architectural and surveying services; accounting, auditing and
bookkeeping services; public relations services; legal services; real estate
services; the services of insurance agents, brokers and carriers; the services
of security and commodity brokers; and the services of bank holding companies.
This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
5111 Newspaper, Periodical, Book and Database Publishers
5615 Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services
5231 Securities and Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage
5241 Insurance Carriers
5242 Agencies, Brokerages and other insurance related activities
5312 Offices or Real Estate Agents and Brokers
5511 Management of Companies and Enterprises
5418 Advertising and Related Services (except 54184 Display Advertising)
5614 Credit Reporting and Collection Agencies
5416 Management, Scientific and Technical Consulting Services
5415 Computer System Design and Related Services
5112 Software Publishers
5415 Computer System Design and Related Service
5411 Legal Services
5413 Architectural, Engineering and Related Services
5412 Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping and Payroll Services
5418 Advertising and Related Services
 
   PROGRESSIVE CARE COMMUNITY. An area of land including one or more buildings
under unified management, planned and developed as a unit to provide for the
traditional residency and care of the elderly in a full range of living and
care arrangements which includes at least two of the following: independent
living and care, congregate care or nursing care institutions.
   PROJECT AREA. Any area of land and/or water, regardless of the number of
individual parcels contained therein, on which development is proposed under
these regulations. See DEVELOPMENT.
   PROJECTING SIGN. See SIGN, PROJECTING.
   PROPERTY. All real property subject to land-use regulation by a local
government. The term includes any improvements or structures customarily
regarded as a part of real property.
   PROPOSED RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The margin of a thoroughfare’s right-of-way at
its ultimate intended width, determined by:
      (1)   The thoroughfare’s classification; and
      (2)   Dimensional requirements or location criteria as established in the
subdivision ordinance.
   PROTEST PETITION. A petition, authorized by state law, submitted to the City
Council by adjacent property owners in opposition to a proposed zoning
amendment.
   PUBLIC. Under the control or responsibility of the Town Board of
Commissioners on behalf of the general population, rather than individual or
private control.
   PUBLIC WORKS FACILITY. All production, storage, transmission and recovery
facilities for water, sewerage, telephone and other similar utilities owned or
operated by any public agency or by any utility subject to the jurisdiction of
the State Utilities Commission.
   QUARRY. An operation for the dredging, digging, extraction, mining or
quarrying of stone, sand, gravel or minerals for commercial purposes.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are QUASI-JUDICIAL in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The demolition and reconstruction of a building or a portion
of a building.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. See SIGN, REAL ESTATE.
   REAR LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, REAR.
   REAR YARD. See YARD, REAR.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PUBLIC. An area or facility designed to meet the
demand for active recreation, including play fields, ball diamonds, parks with
picnic and playground equipment, golf courses, tennis courts, swimming pools,
tot lots and similar uses, available to the public and under the management or
control of a public agency.
   RECREATION SERVICES, INDOOR. Establishments engaged in providing indoor
recreation services. Such may include public or private health or exercise
clubs, tennis or other racquet courts, swimming pools, YMCAs, YWCAs or similar
uses which are enclosed in buildings and are operated on a fee or membership
basis primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot as
that on which the recreational use is located. INDOOR RECREATION STRUCTURES may
include accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro shops and locker rooms, which
are designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons of the principal
recreational use. This definition includes only those uses in the following
NAICS group(s):
 
7139  Dance Studios, Schools and Halls
6116  Other Schools and Institutions
7111  Performing Arts Companies
711   Performing Arts, Spectator Sports and Related Industries
71394 Fitness and Recreational Sports Center
 
   RECREATION SERVICES, OUTDOOR. Establishments engaged in providing outdoor
recreation services such as public or private golf courses, country clubs,
swimming pools, tennis courts, ball fields and ball courts which are not
enclosed in buildings and are operated on a commercial or membership basis
primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot as that on
which the recreational use is located. OUTDOOR RECREATION shall include any
accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro shops and club houses which are
designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons of the principal
recreational use. This definition includes only those uses in the following
NAICS group(s):
 
7139 Other Amusement and Recreation Industries (excluding Sportsman ranges,
     i.e.: archery, turkey shoots)
7112 Spectator Sports
 
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle type accommodation, other than a
manufactured home, designed as temporary accommodations for travel, vacation or
recreational purposes, which is propelled by its own motive power or is mounted
on or drawn by another vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK AND CAMPGROUND. Any lot or parcel of land used or
intended to be used for the accommodation of two or more recreational vehicles
or non-vehicle campers for transient dwelling purposes.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility at which recovered household resources, such as
newspapers, glassware and metal and aluminum cans, are collected, stored,
flattened, crushed or bundled within a completely enclosed building. This use
does not include Motor Vehicle Parts, Used, SIC group 5015, which is listed as
a separate use.
   RECYCLING AND SALVAGE OPERATION. Places of business or public facilities for
the collection or processing of recyclable materials which has been separated
at the source, including, but not limited to, metals, glass, plastic, paper,
appliances or white metals within a completely enclosed building. Appliances
and white metals shall be limited to 25% of the floor area devoted to storage
of recyclable materials but not more than 400 square feet. RECYCLING AND
SALVAGE OPERATIONS exclude automobile wrecking yards, junk yards and the
collection of refuse or hazardous materials, except recyclable batteries,
paint, oil or antifreeze limited to 1,000 gallons of each fluid. RECYCLING AND
SALVAGE OPERATIONS may process only source separated recyclable materials for
efficient shipping or to an end-user’s specifications by baling, bunching,
crushing, smashing, separation, shredding or similar action.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building which contains one or more dwelling units.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, DUPLEX. A residential building which contains two
dwelling units and which occupies one zoning lot.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential building which contains
three or more dwelling units. This definition includes condominiums and
apartment complexes, but does not include townhouses.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A residential building which contains
one dwelling unit and which occupies its own zoning lot. This term includes
modular housing units.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, TOWNHOUSE. A residential building which contains three
or more dwelling units where each unit occupies a separate lot of record.
   RESTAURANT (WITH DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE). An establishment which delivers
prepared food and/or beverages to customers in motor vehicles, regardless of
whether or not it also serves prepared food and/or beverages to customers who
are not in motor vehicles, for consumption either on or off the premises.
   RESTAURANT (WITHOUT DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE). An establishment, which serves
prepared food and beverages primarily to customers seated at tables or counters
located within the building or designated outdoor seating areas. This includes
cafés, tea rooms and outdoor cafés.
   RETAIL, GENERAL. An establishment primarily engaged in selling goods to the
public. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group
(s)
44131 Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores (indoor sales only)
442   Furniture and Home Furnishings Stores
443   Electronics and Appliance Stores
44413 Hardware stores
446   Health and Personal Care Stores
448   Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores
451   Sporting Goods, Hobby, Book and Music Stores
452   General Merchandise Stores
453   Miscellaneous Store Retailers
 
   RETAIL, NON-STORE. A use that retails merchandise using non-store methods,
such as the broadcasting and publishing of direct-response advertising, direct
solicitation and electronic shopping. This definition includes only those uses
in the following NAICS group(s)
 
4541 Electronic Shopping and Mail-Order Houses
4542 Vending Machine Operators
4543 Direct Selling Establishments (excluding on-site fuel storage)
 
   RETAIL STORE, LARGE. A single retail or wholesale use which occupies no less
than 65,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires high parking to
building area ratios and has a regional sales market. The stores include, but
are not limited to, membership warehouse clubs that emphasize bulk sales,
discount stores and department stores.
   RETAIL STORE, MEDIUM. A single retail or wholesale use which occupies
between 25,000 and 65,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires
moderate parking to building area ratios and has a local sales market.
   RETAIL STORE, SMALL. A single retail or wholesale use which occupies less
than 25,000 square feet of gross floor area, typically requires low parking to
building area ratios and has a local or neighborhood sales market.
   RIDING STABLES. An establishment where horses are boarded and cared for,
where instruction in riding, jumping and showing is offered or where horses may
be hired for riding.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The legal right of public passage, especially vehicular, over
land.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point of a flat roof or mansard roof and the lowest
point of a pitched roof, excluding any minor projections or ornamentation.
   ROOF PITCH. A comparison of the vertical rise to the horizontal run of a
roof structure above a building.
   ROOF SIGN. See SIGN, ROOF.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE.
   ROOT PROTECTION ZONE. Generally 18 to 24 inches deep at a distance from the
trunk equal to one-half of its height or to its drip line, whichever is
greater.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Activities associated with regular and general upkeep
of transmission equipment, including the replacement of existing wireless
facilities with wireless facilities of the same size.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. See LANDFILL, SANITARY.
   SATELLITE DISH. A type of receive-only antenna, which is dish-shaped and is
used to receive satellite signals, primarily television transmissions.
   SAWMILL. A facility where logs are sawn, split, shaved, stripped, chipped or
otherwise processed to produce wood products, not including the processing of
timber for use on the same lot by the owner or resident of that lot.
   SEARCH RING. The area within which a wireless support facility or wireless
facility must be located in order to meet service objectives of the wireless
service provider using the wireless facility or wireless support structure.
   SENSITIVE AREA. An area not suitable for development which includes the
occupancy of animal and plant habitats that are rare and valuable due to their
special role in an ecosystem, which could be disturbed by human activities and
development. These areas are known to include wetlands, floodplains and
geologically hazardous sites.
   SERVICE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full or partial
access controlled facility and functions to provide access to adjacent land.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY. A public or private school providing
instruction to students in kindergarten through grade 12.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE. A structure used primarily by and for any two or more age
or grade levels not operated by the public school system, but registered with
the State Department of Public Instruction. Any school for children age six or
under not meeting these requirements shall be considered a day care facility
for purposes of this article.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC. A structure used primarily by and for any two or more age or
grade levels in grades kindergarten through 12 and operated by the public
school system or approved by the State Department of Public Instruction as
meeting the requirements of state law. Any school for children age six or under
not meeting these requirements shall be considered a day care facility for
purposes of this article.
   SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL OR PROFESSIONAL. A use providing education or training in
business, commerce, language or other similar activity or occupational pursuit
and not otherwise defined as a home occupation, college or university or
elementary or secondary school.
   SCREENING. A fence, wall, hedge, landscaping, buffer area or any combination
of these provided to visually shield or obscure one abutting or nearby
structure or use from another.
   SERVICES A, BUSINESS. An establishment primarily engaged in providing a
service(s) to businesses and to a lesser extent, individuals. All merchandise
and rental equipment is stored inside
 
5414  Specialized Design Services
56141 Document Prep Services
5322  Consumer Goods Rental
5414  Computer Systems Design and Related Services
5614  Business Support Services
 
   SERVICES B, BUSINESS. An establishment primarily engaged in providing
services to commercial and business establishments. Operations may include
large scale facilities and storage of merchandise and equipment outside
enclosed buildings. BUSINESS SERVICES B includes the following list of uses
(including related NAICS groups and all subcategories not elsewhere listed):
 
8123 Dry Cleaning and Laundry Services
5418 Advertising and Related Services
5617 Services to Buildings and Dwellings
5323 General Rental Centers
8113 Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and
     Electronic) Repair and Maintenance
8114 Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance
 
   SERVICES, PERSONAL. See PERSONAL SERVICES.
   SERVICE STATION. See GASOLINE STATION.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between a structure and
the lot line or street centerline.
   SETBACK, ESTABLISHED. The setback established by existing structures along a
block front.
   SETBACK, REQUIRED. The setback required by this article.
   SHADE TREE. Usually a deciduous tree, rarely an evergreen, planted primarily
for its high crown of foliage or overhead canopy.
   SHOOTING RANGE, INDOOR. The use of a completely enclosed structure for
archery and/or the discharging of firearms for the purposes of target practice
or temporary competitions.
   SHOOTING RANGE, OUTDOOR. The use of land for archery and/or the discharging
of firearms for the purposes of target practice or temporary competitions.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A building or group of buildings with two or more uses,
either connected or freestanding, which is designed with common parking,
pedestrian movement, ingress and egress and used for the sale of merchandise or
services to the public. SHOPPING CENTERS shall be construed to include all out-
parcels, whether or not developed and shall permit any permitted within the
zoning district in which it is located, except for those uses that require
outdoor storage.
   SHOPPING CENTER, LARGE. A shopping center totaling 65,000 square feet or
more of gross floor area.
   SHOPPING CENTER, MEDIUM. A shopping center containing between 25,000 and
65,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   SHOPPING CENTER, SMALL. A shopping center totaling 25,000 square feet or
less of gross floor area.
   SHRUB. A woody, branching plant of relatively low height.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by the point of
intersection of two street right-of-way lines and a point located along each
right-of-way line at a distance of 35 feet from the point of intersection.
   SIGHT EASEMENT. See EASEMENT, SIGHT.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of
or identify the purpose of a person or entity or to communicate information of
any kind to the public.
   SIGN AREA. The area of a sign face.
   SIGN FACE. That part of the sign that is or can be used to identify,
advertise or communicate information or that is used to attract the attention
of the public for any purpose. This definition includes any frame, structural
member or other part of the sign when such is designed or used, including the
use of color or lighting, to attract the attention of the public.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the
top of the highest attached component of the sign, as detailed in § 8-3.6.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. The frame supporting a freestanding sign, wall sign,
projecting sign, suspended sign, portable sign, marquee sign or roof sign and
poles or supports used to elevate or support the frame.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
   SIGN, BANNER (OUTDOOR ADVERTISING). A sign intended to be hung either with
or without a frame, possessing characters, letters, illustrations or
ornamentation applied to plastic or fabric of any kind, excluding flags and
emblems of political, professional, religious, educational or corporate
organizations.
   SIGN, BEACON. Any sign with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere
or directed at one or more points not on the same zoning lot as the light
source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A type of off-premises sign, generally, but not always,
consisting of a rigidly assembled sign, display or devise, that is affixed to
the ground or to a building, the primary purpose of which is to display
advertising posters.
   SIGN, CAMPAIGN OR ELECTION. A sign that advertises a candidate or issue to
be voted upon on a definite election day.
   SIGN, CANOPY (AWNING). Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning,
canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a door,
entrance, window or outdoor service area, excluding a marquee (see SIGN,
MARQUEE).
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the remaining
face or the surface of the sign.
   SIGN, CIVIC. A monument-style sign, including noncommercial information of
interest that may or may not be associated with a particular location for
municipal and civic club institutions, that is erected and maintained by the
town or state, or an agent of such.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign placed at a construction site identifying or
announcing the project or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor,
financier or others involved in the development of the project.
   SIGN, COPY. Any words, letters, numbers, figures, characters, symbols, logos
or insignia that are used on a sign face.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL OR INSTRUCTIONAL. An on-premises sign designed to guide
vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic by using such words as “Entrance”, “Exit”,
“Parking”, “One-Way”, “Warning”, “No Trespassing” or similar direction or
instruction, but not including any advertising message. The name or logo of the
business or use to which the sign is giving direction may also be included on
the sign.
   SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign other than an identification sign, listing the
names, uses or locations of the various businesses or activities conducted
within a building or group of buildings that is centrally located and intended
to provide direction
   SIGN, ELECTION. Any sign that advertises a candidate or an issue which is to
be voted on in a local, state or federal election process.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign, or portion of a sign, that displays
an electronic image and/or video, which may or may not include text. Such signs
include any sign, or portion of a sign, that uses changing lights to form a
sign message or messages, or uses electronic means to change the sign message.
Electronic message boards include, but are not limited to, signs also known as
electronic reader boards, electronic message center signs, tri-panel message
systems, and commercial electronic-variable message signs (CEVMS). Electronic
message signs are not considered flashing signs.
   SIGN, FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision or
other entity.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A sign that uses an intermittent or flashing light source to
attract attention.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on or anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building
or other structure.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for
any governmental purposes.
   SIGN, GROUND MOUNTED. A sign which extends from the ground or which has a
support which places the bottom thereof less than three feet from the ground.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zoning lot on which it is to be located, such as
“no parking”, “entrance”, “loading only”, “telephone” and other similar
directives which are free of any commercial, advertising or similarly unrelated
message.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which displays only the name, address and/or
crest, insignia, trademark, occupation or profession of an occupant or the name
of any building on the premises.
   SIGN, KIOSK. A freestanding sign consisting of three to five sides that
lists names of businesses located on a property, in a building or within the
immediate area.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign attached to, in any manner, a marquee. For purposes
of this definition, a marquee is defined as a permanent roof-like structure
projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall
of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from
the weather.
   SIGN, MEMORIAL OR PLAQUE. A sign designating the name of a building and/or
date of erection and other items such as architect, contractor or others
involved in the building’s creation, cut into or attached to a building
surface.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A freestanding sign supported primarily by an internal
structural framework or integrated into landscaping or solid structural
features other than support poles where the base of the sign is on the ground
or no more than twelve inches above the adjacent grade.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity
or service, conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the premises on
which the sign is erected.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity or
service, that is conducted, sold or offered on the premises on which the sign
is erected.
   SIGN, PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or
not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   SIGN, PERMANENT BANNER. Any banner constructed of lightweight fabric or
similar material that is permanently mounted to a building by a permanent
frame, excluding flags. (see SIGN, FLAG.)
   SIGN, PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A directory sign placed at a major entrance to a
planned development which may list the name of the development as well as the
businesses or locations within the development. A planned development sign
shall consist only of monument signs and shall not include pole, pylon or other
non-monument freestanding signs.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs converted to A or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs;
balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to
or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
the vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any wall sign affixed to a building or wall in a manner
that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the surface of the
building or wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign that is used to offer for sale, lease or rent the
premises upon which the sign is placed.
   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any sign located in a District zoned for residential
uses.
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected and constructed wholly or partially on or over
the roof or parapet of a building.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by the surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign which is not permanently installed in the ground or
affixed to any structure or building.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to a wall, painted on the wall surface or
erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any building or
structure and which is supported by the wall.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. Any tree other than a pine tree with a caliper of 18
inches or more.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. See RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled plan showing uses and structures proposed for a parcel
of land as required by this article, which includes lot lines, streets,
building sites and buildings, reserved open space, major landscape features
(natural and manmade) and the location of proposed utility lines when
applicable in addition to other features which may be required by this article.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unit are not SLEEPING UNITS.
   SMALL MATURING TREES. A tree whose height is less than 35 feet at maturity
and meets the specifications of American Standards for Nursery Stock, published
by the American Association of Nurserymen.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this
subdivision, the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services, or other support structures.
   SOLAR ENERGY GENERATING FACILITY. A solar collection system that generates
electricity from sunlight to a wholesale electricity beneficiary. These solar
farms shall consist of a minimum of three individual panels which are an
assembly of solar cells that generate electricity. The energy beneficiary(ies)
shall not be located on the energy facility site. This definition does not
include solar devices for single-family homes or any solar devices which are an
accessory to a primary use. Modifications to an existing solar energy
generating facility that increase its area by more than 5% of the original
footprint, or that change the solar panel type (e.g., photovoltaic to solar
thermal) shall be subjected to the requirements of this use. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAIGS group: 221114 Solar Electric
Power Generation.
   SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or non-hazardous garbage, refuse, sludge from a
waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility or other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or
contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, institutional,
commercial, agricultural and land clearing operations. This term does not
include the following:
      (1)   Fowl and animal fecal waste;
      (2)   Solid or dissolved material in any of the following:
         (a)   Domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof,
in sanitary sewage disposal systems which have a design capacity of more than
3,000 gallons or which discharge effluents to the surface waters;
         (b)   Irrigation return flows; or
         (c)   Wastewater discharges and the sludge incidental thereto and
generated by the treatment thereof, which are point sources subject to permits
granted under § 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the
Environmental Management Commission;
      (3)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Art. 21A
of Ch. 143;
      (4)   Any radioactive material, as defined by the State Radiation
Protection Act (G.S. §§ 104E-1 through 104E-23); or
      (5)   Mining refuse covered by the State Mining Act (G.S. §§ 74-46
through 74-68) and regulated by the State Mining Commission (as defined under
G.S. § 143B-290).
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in
a particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards. The term includes permits previously referred to as
conditional use permits or special exceptions.
   STEALTH or CONCEALED WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless support facility due to
design or appearance, hides, obscures or conceals the presence of the wireless
support facility. Examples include, steeples, bell towers and silos.
   STEALTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS. Telecommunications antennas which are
housed within a building or on a structure so that the antennas are disguised
as some other permitted structure or use.
   STORAGE AND SALVAGE YARD. The use of land for outdoor storage of machinery,
construction equipment, construction supplies, used building materials, scrap
metal and similar items. This definition does not include motor vehicle storage
yard, motor vehicle dismantling operations or junkyards.
   STORAGE TANKS, ABOVE GROUND. Storage tanks located above ground which are
accessory to industries or businesses in their operations and are used to store
chemicals, fuels, water and other liquids and materials.
   STORAGE TANK, WATER. A standpipe or elevated tank used to store a supply of
water or to maintain equal pressure on a water system.
   STORY. The part of a building or structure above ground level between a
floor and the floor or roof next above. A mezzanine shall be considered a STORY
if it exceeds one-third of the area of the floor immediately below. A penthouse
shall be considered a STORY if it exceeds one-third of the area of the roof.
   STREAM BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which storm
water runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become
channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The stream buffer is measured landward from the normal pool
elevation of impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or
rivers.
   STREET. A right-of-way for vehicular travel.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A federal and/or state highway designed primarily for the
movement of large volumes of vehicular traffic from one area or region to
another; a thoroughfare. Also referred to as a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A public way designed primarily to connect minor streets
with arterial streets and/or to provide direct connection between two or more
arterial streets and which may be designed to carry significant volumes of
vehicular traffic having neither origin nor destination on the street.
   STREET, MINOR RESIDENTIAL. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide direct access to residential property.
   STREET, MINOR NON-RESIDENTIAL. Those streets whose primary function is to
provide direct access to commercial-industrial property.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor street having one end open to traffic and
the other permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
   STREET, RURAL. A street designed for and located in non-urban and non-
urbanizing areas as classified by the town.
   STREET, URBAN. A street designed for and located in urban or urbanizing
areas as classified by the town.
   STREET, PARALLEL FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private street adjoining or
parallel to an arterial street designed to provide access to abutting property
in place of the arterial.
   STREET, PRIVATE. An interior circulation road designed and constructed to
carry vehicular traffic from public streets within or adjoining a site to
parking and service areas; it is not maintained nor intended to be maintained
by the public.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A right-of-way or fee simple tract of land which has been
set aside for public travel, dedicated to the public by the recording of a
subdivision plat, built to public street standards and eligible for maintenance
by either the town or the state.
   STREET LINE. The outer boundary of a street right-of-way.
   STREET ORIENTATION. See BUILDING PRESENTATION.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. Street right-of-way shall mean any public right-of-way
set aside for public travel which is accepted or eligible to be accepted for
maintenance by the state or the town or the county, if so authorized; or has
been dedicated for public travel by the recording of a plat or a subdivision
which has been approved or is subsequently approved by the town; or has
otherwise been established as a public street prior to the adoption of this
article.
   STREET VISTA. A view framed by buildings at the termination of the axis of a
thoroughfare or large neighborhood street.
   STREET PLANTING YARD. The area of land along the front property line
parallel to a right-of-way reserved for tree planting and landscaping. Also
called STREET TREE PLANTING EASEMENT.
   STREETSCAPE. An area within a street’s right-of-way that may contain
sidewalks, street furniture, landscaping or trees and similar features.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, installed or portable, the use of which
requires a location on a parcel of land. This includes a fixed or movable
building which can be used for residential, business, commercial, agricultural
or office purposes, either temporarily or permanently. “Structure” also
includes, but is not limited to, swimming pools, tennis courts, signs,
cisterns, sewage treatment plants, sheds and similar accessory construction;
however, it does not include landscape features such as ornamental pools,
planting boxes, sculpture, birdbaths, open terraces, at-grade bridges and
walkways, at-grade slab patios, driveways, small non-permanent shelters for
pets, playhouses, open stairs, recreational equipment, flagpoles, underground
fallout shelters, air-conditioning compressors, pump houses, wells, mailboxes,
outdoor fireplaces, burial vaults or cemetery marker monuments.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure detached from a principal building on the
same zoning lot, the use of which is customarily incidental to the principal
building. This includes freestanding satellite dishes, any other devices that
access satellites and amateur radio antennas.
   STRUCTURE, DETACHED. For purposes of determining setback requirements for
accessory structures, a structure, which is separated from an adjacent
structure by at least three feet, as measured from any part of the structures.
   STUDIOS. A working place or place of study for a painter, sculptor,
photographer, dancer or person engaged in a similar artistic pursuit. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
541430 Art studios, commercial
611610 Dance studios
541922 Photography studios, commercial
541921 Photography studios, portrait
 
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation or entity who subdivides or
develops any land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
provided, however, that the following shall not be included within this
definition:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town’s
subdivision regulations;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or the location of public utility rights-of-way;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town’s subdivision regulations;
      (5)   The division of land into plots or lots for use as a cemetery; and
      (6)   Subdivisions resulting from proceedings to partition interests in
lots or parcels pursuant to G.S. Ch. 46 (or any successor statute) resulting in
the division of a lot or parcel into two or more lots or parcels except where
the partition proceeding is brought to circumvent the provisions of this
article or the town’s subdivision regulations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, expansion or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which exceeds 50% of the assessed value
of a structure as determined either before the expansion or improvement begins
or before the damage occurred giving rise to the repair or reconstruction.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include, however, any repair or improvement
required to bring the structure into compliance with existing state or town
code specifications necessary to ensure safe habitation of the structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below:
      (1)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
         (a)   More than 10%; or
         (b)   The height of one additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of:
         (a)   More than 20 feet; or
         (b)   More than the width of the wireless support structure at the
level of the appurtenance.
      (3)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound by
more than 2,500 square feet.
   SURVEYOR. A person licensed to practice surveying in the state.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A building placed on a lot for a specific purpose which
is to be removed within a specified time period. Examples of temporary
structures are monitoring stations, mobile classrooms, construction trailers
and guard houses and produce stands.
   TERMINAL, BUS OR TAXI. A facility for the storage, maintenance and dispatch
of buses or taxi and associated customer ticketing and waiting areas. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
485 Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation
 
   TERMINAL, FREIGHT. Any facility for handling freight, with or without
storage and maintenance facilities. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
 
492   Couriers and Messengers
48849 Other Support Activities for Road Transportation
 
   TESTING AND RESEARCH LABORATORY. An establishment primarily engaged in
commercial research and providing testing services such as calibration and
certification of instruments, food testing services, forensic laboratories,
metallurgical testing and industrial X-ray inspection services, etc. This
definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
5417 Scientific Research and Development Services
 
   THEATER, DRIVE-IN. An establishment for the outdoor viewing of motion
pictures by patrons while in motor vehicles. This definition includes only
those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
512132 Drive-In Motion Picture Theaters
 
   THEATER, INDOOR. An establishment for the indoor viewing of motion pictures
by patrons. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS
group(s):
 
512131 Motion Picture Theaters (except Drive-Ins)
 
   THOROUGHFARE. See STREET, ARTERIAL.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The most recent map adopted by the Town Board which
indicates the system of roads expected to serve major access and travel needs
with regard to auto, truck and transit transportation.
   TIRE RECAPPING SHOPS. Establishments primarily engaged in repairing, re-
treading and rebuilding tires from natural or synthetic rubber. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
326212 Tire Retreading
 
   TOWN. The Town of Mocksville, a municipal corporation organized under the
laws of this state for the better government of the people within its
jurisdiction and having the powers, duties, privileges, and immunities
conferred by law on cities, towns, and villages.
   TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right-of-way owned, leased, or operated by a town,
including any public street or alley that is not a part of the state highway
system.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A pole owned by a town in the town right-of-way that
provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   TOWNHOUSE. See RESIDENTIAL BUILDING, TOWNHOUSE.
   TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD. A traditional neighborhood is one that
incorporates design principles that produce compact, mixed use, pedestrian
scaled communities designed to:
      (1)   Promote independence of movement for the elderly and young by
bringing many activities of daily living within walking distance;
      (2)   Reduce traffic congestion and road construction costs by reducing
number and length of car trips;
      (3)   Use or allow for future use of alternative forms of transportation
by organizing appropriate building densities;
      (4)   Improve security of public spaces organized to stimulate informal
surveillance by residents and business operators;
      (5)   Enhance the sense of community and improve security through the
provision of a range of housing types and workplaces in proximity to one
another; and
      (6)   Provide accessible places for public assembly and civic engagement
by identification of suitable sites for civic buildings.
   TRANSITIONAL SETBACK OR YARD. The area, if any, along a thoroughfare, which
lies between:
      (1)   The minimum setback or yard line for the zoning district measured
from the existing street right-of-way line; and
      (2)   The minimum setback or yard line measured from the proposed right-
of-way line.
   TRANSITIONAL USE. A permitted use or structure that, by nature, level of
activity or physical scale, acts as a transition or intermediate use between
two or more incompatible uses.
   TREE. A large, woody plant having one or more self-supporting stems or
trunks and numerous branches. May be classified as deciduous or evergreen.
   UNDERSTORY TREE. A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height
of 15 to 35 feet in height and meets the specifications of the American
Standards for Nursery Stock, published by the American Association of
Nurseryman.
   UNIVERSITY, COLLEGE AND JUNIOR COLLEGE. A use, whether privately-owned or
publicly-owned, providing academic education beyond the high school level.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use or activity which is customarily incidental to a
specific principal use and which is located on the same zoning lot as the
associated principal use.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary or predominant use of any lot or parcel.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use established for a limited duration with the intent to
discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time period.
   U.S.G.S. United States Geological Survey.
   UTILITIES. Facilities of any agency which, under public franchise or
ownership, provides the general public with electricity, gas, oil, water,
sewage, electronic sign or rail transportation. The term utility shall not be
construed to include the following: corporate or general offices; storage or
service buildings or yards; gas or oil processing, manufacturing or storage
facilities; transmission towers; or postal facilities.
   UTILITIES SERVICE AREA. An area, which contains any surface, mounted
heating, ventilation or air conditioning equipment or freestanding above ground
devices, such as utility boxes, booster boxes, switch gear and transformers,
which are part of an underground utilities system:
      (1)   PRIVATE UTILITY SERVICE AREA. An area, on private property, which
contains privately owned utility structures for the exclusive service of the
premises where they are installed; or,
      (2)   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE AREA. An area, on either private or public
property, which contains utility structure owned by a utility for the service
of one or more premises, but excluding utility substations.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines,
cables, wires, lighting facilities or small wireless facilities for telephone,
cable television, or electricity, or to provide lighting or wireless services.
   VARIANCE. Relief from the requirements of this article granted by the Board
of Adjustment.
   VESTED RIGHT (ZONING). A right established pursuant to the provisions of
this article to undertake and complete the development and use of property.
   VETERINARY SERVICES. Any facility used for the purpose of giving licensed
medical treatment to animals or pets and any other customarily incidental
treatment of the animals, such as grooming, boarding or selling of pet
supplies. This definition includes only those uses in the following NAICS group
(s):
 
54194 Veterinary Services
81291 Pet Care Services (except Veterinary)
 
   WALL SIGN. See SIGN, WALL.
   WAREHOUSING. Establishments primarily engaged in the warehousing and storage
of general merchandise, refrigerated goods and farm products. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4931 Warehousing and Storage
 
   WAREHOUSING, SELF STORAGE. Establishments primarily engaged in the rental or
leasing of mini-warehouses and self-storage units. This definition includes
only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
531130 Warehousing, self storage
 
   WASTE INCINERATOR. A site with one or more facilities that use thermal
combustion processes to destroy or alter the character or composition of waste
products, not including hazardous waste management facilities.
   WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A fixed facility where solid waste from collection
vehicles is consolidated and temporarily stored for subsequent transport to a
permanent disposal site.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES. Those structures for which the use requires
access or proximity to or siting within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, piers, bulkheads and similar
structures. Ancillary facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat
supplies, parking lots and commercial boat storage areas are not WATER
DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED. An area from which water drains to a point of
impoundment and the water is then used principally as a source for a public
water supply.
   WATER TOWER. A water storage tank, a standpipe, or an elevated tank situated
on a support structure originally constructed for use as a reservoir or
facility to store or deliver water.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage into a
specific stream, creek, lake or other body of water.
   WATERSHED BUFFER. A natural or vegetated area through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   WATERSHED CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or
reservoir where risk associated with pollution is greater than from the
remaining portions of the watershed. The critical area is defined as extending
either one-half mile from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which
the intake is located or to the ridge line of the watershed(whichever comes
first); or one-half mile upstream from the intake located directly in the
stream or river(run of the river) or the ridge line of the watershed(whichever
comes first).
   WATERSHED PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical
areas and encompassing the remainder of the watershed where risk of water
quality degradation from pollution is less than in the critical area.
   WHOLESALE TRADE A. An establishment primarily engaged in selling durable and
non-durable goods to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, farm,
construction contractors; or for professional business uses; or to other
wholesalers. Merchandise is stored inside enclosed buildings. Activities
including physically assembling, sorting and grading goods in large lots and
breaking bulk lots for redistribution in smaller lots are conducted inside
enclosed buildings in a way as to have a minimal impact on surrounding
properties. Operations with over 25% of sales to retail customers require the
appropriate retail zoning district. This definition includes only those uses in
the following NAICS group(s):
42112 Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Wholesalers
4212  Furniture and Home Furnishing Wholesalers
4213  Lumber and Other Construction Materials Wholesalers
4214  Professional and Commercial Equipment and Supplies Wholesaler
4216  Electrical Goods Wholesalers
4217  Hardware, Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies Wholesalers
4219  Miscellaneous Durable Goods Wholesalers
4221  Paper and Paper Products Wholesalers
4222  Drugs and Druggists Sundries Wholesalers
4223  Apparel, Piece Goods and Notions Wholesalers
4224  Grocery and Related Products Wholesalers
4228  Beer, Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Wholesalers
4229  Miscellaneous Non-durable Goods Wholesalers (except 422910 Farm Supplies
      Wholesalers)
 
   WHOLESALE TRADE B. An establishment primarily engaged in selling durable and
non- durable goods to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional,
farm, construction contractors; or to professional business uses; or to other
wholesalers. Merchandise may be stored outside or inside enclosed buildings.
Activities including physically assembling, sorting and grading goods in large
lots and breaking bulk lots for redistribution in smaller lots may be conducted
outside enclosed buildings. Operations with over 25% of sales to retail
customers require the appropriate retail zoning district. This definition
includes only those uses in the following NAICS group(s):
 
4211   Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and Supplies Wholesalers (except
       42114 Motor Vehicle Parts Used Wholesalers)
4215   Metal and Mineral (excluding Petroleum Wholesalers)
4218   Machinery, Equipment and Supplies Wholesalers
4225   Farm Product Raw Material Wholesalers
4226   Chemical and Allied Products Wholesalers
422910 Farm Supplies Wholesalers
 
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
      (1)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
      (2)   Radio transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The
term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures
or utility poles or town utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
         (d)   Amateur radio antennas. See also G.S. § 160D-931. See also the
definition of AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person with a certificate to provide
telecommunications service in the state who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities but that does not provide wireless
services.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services, using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower, or guyed tower, that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless telecommunications facilities. A utility pole is not a
wireless support structure.
   WORKING DAY. Any day on which the offices of the town are officially open,
not including Saturdays, Sundays and other holidays designated by the Town
Board.
   YARD. Any area of land located between a lot line and a required setback
line. The minimum depth of a YARD shall be determined by horizontal measurement
at a right angle from the applicable lot line.
   YARD, FRONT. The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front lot line and the front setback line as required in this
article.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the lot between
the required front yard and the required rear yard and between the side lot
line and the side building setback line, as required in this article; provided
that, the side lot line is not adjacent to a public street right-of-way.
   YARD, REAR. The yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the rear building setback line as required in
this article.
   YARD, STREET SIDE. The yard extending along the length of the lot between
the required front yard and the required rear yard adjacent to a public right-
of-way or private access easement and between the side lot line and the side
building setback line as required in this article.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The location of a building on a lot in a manner that one of
the building’s sides rests directly on a lot line.
   ZONING LOT. See LOT, ZONING.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT OR REZONING.
      (1)   An amendment to a zoning regulation for the purpose of changing the
zoning district that is applied to a specified property or properties. The term
also includes:
         (a)   The initial application of zoning when land is added to the
territorial jurisdiction of a local government that has previously adopted
zoning regulations; and
         (b)   The application of an overlay zoning district or a conditional
zoning district.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   The initial adoption of a zoning map by a local government;
         (b)   The repeal of a zoning map and readoption of a new zoning map
for the entire planning and development regulation jurisdiction; or
         (c)   Updating the zoning map to incorporate amendments to the names
of zoning districts made by zoning text amendments where there are no changes
in the boundaries of the zoning district or land uses permitted in the
district.
(2003 Code, § 8-3.10.3) (Updated 2009) (Amended 3-6-2012; Amended 1-8-2013;
Amended 11-5-2013; Amended 8-5-2014; Amended 12-2-2014; Amended 10-3-2017;
Amended 5-1-2018; Amended 3-12-2020; Amended 6-2-2020; Amended 6-1-2021;
Amended 11-5-2024; Amended 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER IX: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      Article
         
1.   IN GENERAL
         
2.   EXCAVATIONS; DRIVEWAYS
         
3.   TREES
         
4.   ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
ARTICLE 1: IN GENERAL
Section
   
9-1.1   Acceptance of public streets
   
9-1.2   Damaging streets unlawful
   
9-1.3   Permit required for construction of sidewalks
   
9-1.4   Dropping and tracking dirt, mud, gravel and debris prohibited
§ 9-1.1 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted as
such, and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Board must
give its approval, finding that:
   (A)   The street complies with engineering standards set by the Board; and
   (B)   The best interests of the town would be served by accepting the street
as a town street; or
   (C)   The Town Board may waive the requirements of division (A) above in the
discretion of the Town Board to see that the health, safety and welfare of the
public is maintained.
(1989 Code, § 16-1; 2003 Code, § 9-1.1) (Amended 10-1-2019)
Cross-reference:
   As to streets in subdivision, see §
8-2.7
§ 9-1.2 DAMAGING STREETS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag, or run or cause to be
dragged or run any implement, machine or tool upon any asphalt or other type of
permanently paved street of the town which shall be likely, in any way, to
damage or cut the surface thereof.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(1989 Code, § 16-8; 2003 Code, § 9-1.2) (Amended 1-4-2022 )
§ 9-1.3 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   No sidewalk, pedestrian path, bicycle path or walking trail of any
description intended for public use shall be built by any person of any brick,
wood or other material without a written permit from the town.
(1989 Code, § 16-9; 2003 Code, § 9-1.3)
§ 9-1.4 DROPPING AND TRACKING DIRT, MUD, GRAVEL AND DEBRIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone operating a vehicle used for hauling
dirt, gravel, garbage or debris through the public streets to drop such onto
the streets.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the contractor to ensure that public
streets adjacent to construction sites are kept free of dirt, mud, gravel and
other debris tracked onto the streets by the movement of vehicles.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure that
gravel and dirt from driveways are kept off of public streets.
(2003 Code, § 9-1.4)
ARTICLE 2: EXCAVATIONS; DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
9-2.1   Excavation permit—required
   
9-2.2   Same—application fees as prescribed
   
9-2.3   Same—indemnification of town
   
9-2.4   Driveway permit
   
9-2.5   Restoration of surface
   
9-2.6   Leaving excavation unprotected
   
9-2.7   Penalty for violating this article
§ 9-2.1 EXCAVATION PERMIT—REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wire or pole or
for any other purpose unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
manager or some other officer vested with proper authority; provided, however,
that, a permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a
contract with the town, but in the event the work requires a sidewalk or street
to be wholly or partially obstructed, the party performing the work shall
notify the town at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street,
unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(1989 Code, § 16-40; 2003 Code, § 9-2.1)
§ 9-2.2 SAME—APPLICATION FEES AS PRESCRIBED.
   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or sidewalk,
as set forth in §
9-2.1, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor, and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut. A fee may be required by the Board
for the permit.
(1989 Code, § 16-41; 2003 Code, § 9-2.2)
§ 9-2.3 SAME—INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in §
9-2.1 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit, to indemnify and
hold harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney's
fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person's operations, excluding only the liability of the town for
its sole negligence in connection with general supervision of work performed by
the person.
(2003 Code, § 9-2.3)
§ 9-2.4 DRIVEWAY PERMIT.
   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any driveway
on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
Manager or some other officer of the town vested with that authority.
(1989 Code, § 16-42; 2003 Code, § 9-2.4)
§ 9-2.5 RESTORATION OF SURFACE.
   When any part of any street or other public place of the town shall be torn
or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation or opening shall
refill and resurface, if paved. The excavation or opening and the refilling and
resurfacing shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications
of the town.
(1989 Code, § 16-43; 2003 Code, § 9-2.5)
§ 9-2.6 LEAVING EXCAVATION UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit under this article
to do any excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous
condition in or near any street or other public place of the town without
warning the public of excavation work, and protecting all persons using
reasonable care from injuries on account of the excavation or work.
(1989 Code, § 16-44; 2003 Code, § 9-2.6)
§ 9-2.7 PENALTY FOR VIOLATING THIS ARTICLE.
   Any person violating this article including but not limited to excavating
the rights-of-way without a permit, leaving excavations open to the general
public and failing to restore excavations shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor, under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this code.
(Adopted 1-4-2022 )
ARTICLE 3: TREES
Section
   
9-3.1   Definitions
   
9-3.2   Purposes
   
9-3.3   Tree Board—created and established; composition
   
9-3.4   Same—terms of office and compensation of members
   
9-3.5   Same—organization
   
9-3.6   Same—duties and responsibilities
   
9-3.7   Public tree care
   
9-3.8   Tree topping
   
9-3.9   Removal of stumps
   
9-3.10   Interference with Tree Board
   
9-3.11   Permit required
   
9-3.12   License and bond
   
9-3.13   Review by Town Board
§ 9-3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to them.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs and bushes in public parks having individual
names, and all areas owned by the town, or to which the public has free access
as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs and bushes on land lying within rights-of-way on
either side of all streets or ways within the town.
(1989 Code, § 16-20; 2003 Code, § 9-3.1)
§ 9-3.2 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The purpose of this article is to regulate the planting, maintenance
and removal of trees on municipally owned public property and rights-of-way
within the municipality and on municipally owned property wherever located. In
order to protect and conserve trees on public property and rights-of-way, this
article provides for the pruning, treatment and removal of trees and shrubs as
deemed necessary by the Town Board or a person acting under the authority of
the Town Board. This article is also intended to provide for the trimming or
removal of trees on public land when they obscure streetlights, interfere with
utility lines or constitute a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or
otherwise endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Another purpose of this article is to encourage the protection of
trees and express the town's intent to use trees to create a more natural and
amenable human environment. This article is not intended to be punitive or to
cause hardship to any person who uses the utmost care and diligence to protect
trees within the town or on town property.
   (C)   This article shall further provide for the establishment of an
advisory committee known as the Tree Board, which shall be responsible for
promoting trees and tree care throughout the municipality and for developing a
town tree plan.
(1989 Code, § 16-21; 2003 Code, § 9-3.2)
§ 9-3.3 TREE BOARD—CREATED AND ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created and established a Town Tree Board, which shall
consist of five members, citizens and residents of the town or its
extraterritorial area, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the Town Board.
(1989 Code, § 16-22; 2003 Code, § 9-3.3)
§ 9-3.4 SAME—TERMS OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Term of office. The term of the five persons to be appointed by the
Mayor shall be three years; except that, the term of two of the members
appointed to the first Board shall be for only one year and the term of two
members of the first Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy
shall occur during the term of any member, a successor shall be appointed for
the unexpired portion of the term.
   (B)   Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(1989 Code, § 16-23; 2003 Code, § 9-3.4)
§ 9-3.5 SAME—ORGANIZATION.
   The Tree Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall
keep a record of its members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public record. The Tree
Board shall set a regular schedule for meetings and the Chairperson may call a
special meeting upon request of a majority of members of the Board. A majority
of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1989 Code, § 16-24; 2003 Code, § 9-3.5)
§ 9-3.6 SAME—DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. The plan will be presented annually to the Town Board and upon its
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree
plan.
   (B)   The Tree Board, when requested by the Town Board, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (C)   The Tree Board shall furthermore serve as an advisory board to the
Town Board with the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To facilitate the planting, growth and protection of trees within
the town;
      (2)   To foster the communication among the citizens of the town that
would provide the needed protection of trees and to coordinate active measures
to support their health and growth within the town;
      (3)   To conduct a tree survey of existing trees along streets and on
public property within the town;
      (4)   To investigate available grants, loans or contributions from other
governmental agencies, public or private corporations or individuals; and to
recommend the expenditure of any proceeds toward the accomplishment of the
Board's purpose; and
      (5)   To conduct continuing research, planning and feasibility studies
required to support the purposes stated herein.
   (D)   The Tree Board shall also be responsible for developing an official
street tree species list comprised of three groups of trees: small trees,
medium trees and large trees. No trees other than those included in the list
may be planted as street trees without permission of the Tree Board.
   (E)   The Tree Board will be responsible for establishing guidelines for the
spacing of town trees in accordance with the three species size classes in the
official street tree species list. These guidelines will cover spacing between
street trees, the distance street trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines
and sidewalks, the distance street trees may be planted from any street corner,
the location of the street trees relative to overhead and underground water
lines, sewer lines, transmission lines or other utilities and any other areas
involving the spacing of street trees, park trees or town-owned trees.
   (F)   The Tree Board shall submit an annual report of its activities and
recommendations to the Town Board and shall submit copies of the minutes and
proceedings of its regular and special meetings.
(1989 Code, § 16-25; 2003 Code, § 9-3.6)
§ 9-3.7 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, squares and other
public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or
enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds.
   (B)   The Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any
publicly owned tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which
by reason of its nature is injurious to sewer lines, electrical power lines,
gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the
selection and location of the trees are in accordance with the guidelines for
planting and spacing developed by the Tree Board.
(1989 Code, § 16-26; 2003 Code, § 9-3.7)
§ 9-3.8 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as normal practice, except as described below,
for any person, including the town, to top any street tree, park tree or other
tree on public property.
   (B)   TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger
than three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees
that interfere with or are an eminent threat to utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
from this article at the determination of the Tree Board.
(1989 Code, § 16-27; 2003 Code, § 9-3.8)
§ 9-3.9 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(1989 Code, § 16-28; 2003 Code, § 9-3.9)
§ 9-3.10 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park
trees or other trees on public grounds, as authorized in this article.
(1989 Code, § 16-29; 2003 Code, § 9-3.10)
§ 9-3.11 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prune, treat or remove any street
tree or park tree without first filing an application and procuring a permit
from the Town Manager or the Manager's designee. The town maintains the right
to review the application and the trees in question in determining whether or
not to issue a permit.
(1989 Code, § 16-30; 2003 Code, § 9-3.11)
§ 9-3.12 LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation
of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees without first applying
for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be as provided in §
4-1.4. annually in advance; provided, however, that, no license shall be
required of any public service company or town employee doing the work in the
pursuit of the company's public service endeavors. Before any license shall be
issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability
insurance in the minimum amount of $50,000 for bodily injury and $25,000
property damage indemnifying the town or any person injured or damaged
resulting from the pursuit of the endeavors, as herein described.
(1989 Code, § 16-31; 2003 Code, § 9-3.12)
Cross-reference:
   As to license fee, see §
4-1.4
§ 9-3.13 REVIEW BY TOWN BOARD.
   The Town Board shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the Tree Board to the Town Board, which may hear the matter and make final
decision.
(1989 Code, § 16-32; 2003 Code, § 9-3.13)
ARTICLE 4: ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
Section
   
9-4.1   Purpose
   
9-4.2   Short title
   
9-4.3   Street names—changing authorized
   
9-4.4   Same—new streets
   
9-4.5   Territorial jurisdiction
   
9-4.6   Road name signs and standards
   
9-4.7   Amendments
§ 9-4.1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the orderly assignment of town
addresses; to fulfill the town's responsibilities between the county and GTE
government information services (GIS); and to protect the safety and welfare of
the general public by facilitating the location of individual dwellings and
businesses by emergency response personnel.
(2003 Code, § 9-4.1) (Adopted 9-7-1993)
§ 9-4.2 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the "Addressing and Road Naming Ordinance of
the Town of Mocksville, North Carolina", and may be referred to as "addressing
ordinance" or "this article", and the map referred to is identified by the
title "Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map, Town of Mocksville,
North Carolina", and may be known as the "addressing map".
(2003 Code, § 9-4.2) (Adopted 9-7-1993)
§ 9-4.3 STREET NAMES—CHANGING AUTHORIZED.
   The town shall have the authority to change the name of any street within
the corporate limits upon notice published at least once ten days before a
public hearing thereon.
(1989 Code, § 16-2; 2003 Code, § 9-4.3) (Amended 5-1-2018)
§ 9-4.4 SAME—NEW STREETS.
   No new streets shall be named within the corporate limits without prior
approval of the town. Proposed new street names and the locations thereof shall
be submitted to the Town Planner for review. The town shall have the authority
to disapprove the proposed name if it conflicts with, or is confusingly similar
to, an existing street name in either spelling or pronunciation.
(1989 Code, § 16-3; 2003 Code, § 9-4.4) (Amended 5-1-2018)
§ 9-4.5 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this article shall be
applicable to all of the incorporated areas of the town.
(2003 Code, § 9-4.5) (Adopted 9-7-1993; Amended 5-1-2018)
§ 9-4.6 ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Installation and maintenance. All public road name signs required by
this article shall be installed and maintained by the Town Public Works
Department.
   (B)   Sign standards. Road name signs shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   All road name signs shall be a six-inch vertical dimension sign.
      (2)   Road name signs shall comply with all reflectivity requirements set
forth in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      (3)   In residential districts, at least one road name sign shall be
mounted at each intersection.
      (4)   On major arterials (U.S., N.C. and S.R. 1000 series routes), road
name signs shall be placed on diagonally opposite corners so that they will be
on the far right side of the intersection for traffic on the major road. Signs
naming both roads shall be erected at each location. They shall be mounted with
their faces parallel to the roads they name.
      (5)   Road name signs shall be placed at least two feet behind the face
of a curb with a minimum clearance of seven feet from the bottom of the sign to
the projected edge of pavement. If there is no curb and gutter, the signs shall
be placed behind the ditch line out of the maintenance area. The lateral
clearance from the road's edge should be six feet.
      (6)   Whenever physical conditions permit, signs shall be located on the
right-hand side of the road as one approaches the intersection.
      (7)   Signs shall be set in the center of the turning radius in a way as
to be visible from both intersecting roads.
      (8)   Signs shall be placed across the ditch line and shall not block
regulatory or warning signs.
      (9)   Signs shall be located in conformance with safety factors related
to fixed obstacles near the roadway.
   (C)   Existing road signs. The Ordinance Administrator shall retain existing
road signs already in place, except for those signs which are inconsistent with
the provisions of this section and substantially affect the purposes sought to
be carried out by this article.
(2003 Code, § 9-4.11) (Adopted 9-7-1993; Amended 5-1-2018)
§ 9-4.7 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. The Board of Town Commissioners may, from time to time, on
its own motion or on petition, after public notice and a hearing, as provided
by this article, amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the addressing
regulations and assignments.
   (B)   Letter of notification. Whenever there is a proposal for a change in
the addressing system involving any portion of an address, the landowner of
that parcel's address as shown on the town tax listing, and the landowners of
all the parcels of land abutting that parcel of land as shown on the town tax
listing, shall be mailed a notice of the proposed change in the address system.
The notice shall be mailed by first class mail to the last addresses listed of
the landowners according to the town tax abstracts.
(2003 Code, § 9-4.13) (Adopted 9-7-1993; Amended 5-1-2018)
CHAPTER X: TRAFFIC
      Article
         
1.   IN GENERAL
         
2.   OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
         
3.   PARKING
         
4.   STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
         
5.   SCHEDULES
ARTICLE 1: IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-1.1   Authority of law enforcement sworn staff and Fire Department officials
   
10-1.2   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
10-1.3   Truck traffic
   
10-1.4   School zones
   
10-1.5   Pedestrians—to use right-half of crosswalk
   
10-1.6   Same—crossing at right angles
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
5-6.2 et seq.
   Damaging streets, see §
9-1.2
   House moving, see §
5-3.15
   Noise emanating from vehicle, see §
7-5.2
   Parade permits, see §§
3-2.2 et seq.
   Trees constituting traffic hazard, see §§
9-3.2 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to control traffic, see G.S. §§ 20-158 et seq., 20-169,
160A-301, 160A-302
§ 10-1.1 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT SWORN STAFF AND FIRE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Davie County Sheriff’s Office is authorized to enforce all local
traffic ordinances and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic.
   (B)   Sworn and non-sworn staff of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office are
hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance
with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or
to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,sworn and non-sworn staff of
the Davie County Sheriff’s Office may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist sworn and non-sworn staff of the Davie County Sheriff’s Office
in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(1989 Code, § 18-1; 2003 Code, § 10-1.1) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 10-1.2 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a Davie County Sheriff’s Deputy or Fire Department official.
(1989 Code, § 18-2; 2003 Code, § 10-1.2) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 10-1.3 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited on all streets designated in §
10-5.1. TRUCKS, within the meaning of this chapter, are defined as all trucks
one ton or larger.
(1989 Code, § 18-3; 2003 Code, § 10-1.3)
§ 10-1.4 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized, signs are placed designating any street or part
thereof, as a school zone. Drivers of motor vehicles using that street shall
exercise the greatest care for the protection of children.
(1989 Code, § 18-4; 2003 Code, § 10-1.4)
§ 10-1.5 PEDESTRIANS—TO USE RIGHT-HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(1989 Code, § 18-5; 2003 Code, § 10-1.5)
§ 10-1.6 SAME—CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(1989 Code, § 18-6; 2003 Code, § 10-1.6)
ARTICLE 2: OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
10-2.1   Speed regulations—maximum generally
   
10-2.2   Same—maximums at specific places
   
10-2.3   Same—use of radar authorized
   
10-2.4   Limitations on turning around
   
10-2.5   One-way streets and alleys
   
10-2.6   Intersections where stop required
   
10-2.7   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
10-2.8   Driving on sidewalks
   
10-2.9   Driving vehicles on private property—generally
   
10-2.10   Same—private business property
   
10-2.11   Penalty for violation
§ 10-2.1 SPEED REGULATIONS—MAXIMUM GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of 25 mph inside the municipal corporate limits
unless otherwise posted.
(1989 Code, § 18-20; 2003 Code, § 10-2.1) (Amended 8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits established, see G.S. § 20-141
§ 10-2.2 SAME—MAXIMUMS AT SPECIFIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway
system, listed in the sections indicated:
      (1)   Twenty mph: §
10-5.3;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph: §
10-5.4;
      (3)   Thirty mph: §
10-5.5;
      (4)   Thirty-five mph: §
10-5.6;
      (5)   Forty mph: §
10-5.7;
      (6)   Forty-five mph: §
10-5.8;
      (7)   Fifty mph: §
10-5.9; and
      (8)   Fifty-five mph: §
10-5.10.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speed
limits listed below upon the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the
state highway system, listed in the sections indicated:
      (1)    Twenty mph: §
10-5.11;
      (2)   Twenty-five mph: §
10-5.12;
      (3)   Thirty mph: §
10-5.13;
      (4)   Forty mph: §
10-5.14;
      (5)   Forty-five mph: §
10-5.15;
      (6)   Fifty mph: §
10-5.16; and
      (7)   Fifty-five mph: §
10-5.17.
(1989 Code, § 18-21; 2003 Code, § 10-2.2)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for speed limits other than 35 mph, see G.S. § 20-141
   Townwide speed limit, see §
10-5.2
§ 10-2.3 SAME—USE OF RADAR AUTHORIZED.
   The sworn law enforcement staff of the town is hereby authorized to use any
radar units available, within the corporate limits, and to arrest all persons
violating speed limits based upon readings of the radar units.
(1989 Code, § 18-22; 2003 Code, § 10-2.3) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 10-2.4 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district, and shall not upon
any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety
and without interfering with other traffic.
(1989 Code, § 18-23; 2003 Code, § 10-2.4)
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections, see G.S. § 20-153
§ 10-2.5 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in §
10-5.17, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1989 Code, § 18-24; 2003 Code, § 10-2.5)
§ 10-2.6 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazards exists, and may determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more
entrances to any intersection, and shall erect a stop sign at every place where
a stop is required.
   (B)   Those places are specified in §
10-5.18.
(1989 Code, § 18-25; 2003 Code, § 10-2.6)
§ 10-2.7 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(1989 Code, § 18-26; 2003 Code, § 10-2.7)
§ 10-2.8 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle, including
"mini-bikes", on any sidewalk on property owned or under the control of the
town; provided, however, nothing herein shall prohibit the operation of a motor
vehicle across sidewalks at a driveway to obtain ingress or egress to any lot
or parcel of land served by the driveway.
(1989 Code, § 18-27; 2003 Code, § 10-2.8)
§ 10-2.9 DRIVING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY—GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon any private
property on any day between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. when signs
have been posted by the owner or the owner's employee or agent prohibiting the
same.
(1989 Code, § 18-28; 2003 Code, § 10-2.9)
§ 10-2.10 SAME—PRIVATE BUSINESS PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon any private
business property, parking lot or area at any time that business is not open to
the public, when signs have been posted by the owner or the owner's employee or
agent stating that the driving of vehicles is prohibited at or during certain
designated times.
(1989 Code, § 18-29; 2003 Code, § 10-2.10)
§ 10-2.11 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-75 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Adopted 10-4-2022)
ARTICLE 3: PARKING
Section
   
10-3.1   Parallel parking position
   
10-3.2   Signs or markings indicating angle or diagonal parking
   
10-3.3   Abandoning of vehicles
   
10-3.4   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
10-3.5   Same—for certain purposes
   
10-3.6   Loading and unloading zones—compliance with signs
   
10-3.7   Same—passenger loading zones
   
10-3.8   Same—commercial loading zones
   
10-3.9   Same—public carrier stops and stands
   
10-3.10   Same—restricted use and taxicab stands
   
10-3.11   Penalty for violation
§ 10-3.1 PARALLEL PARKING POSITION.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels, or left-hand wheels, if lawfully parked on left
of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as
otherwise provided in this article.
(1989 Code, § 18-40; 2003 Code, § 10-3.1)
§ 10-3.2 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE OR DIAGONAL PARKING.
   (A)   The Board shall determine upon what streets angle or diagonal parking
shall be permitted and shall mark or sign the streets, which are specified in §
10-5.18.
   (B)   Angle or diagonal parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any
place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon
the left side of the street.
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle or
diagonal parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings.
(1989 Code, § 18-41; 2003 Code, § 10-3.2)
§ 10-3.3 ABANDONING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave unattended any
automobile, truck or other type of vehicle, including motorcycles and scooters,
upon any of the public streets of the town, where parking is prohibited under
the terms of this article.
   (B)   Any person, violating the foregoing provision shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $50 or 30 days
in jail; in addition thereto, the owner, possessor or occupier of the motor
vehicle left unattended, shall be liable for a civil penalty in the amount
determined annually by the Board of Commissioners in the schedule of fees, plus
the actual cost of the removal of the motor vehicle, plus whatever storage
charges or safeguarding charges which may be imposed for the protection of the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   The Davie County Sheriff’s Office is hereby designated as the agency
for the enforcement of this chapter, including the immediate removal of the
offending vehicle.
   (D)   All charges for towing, storage or safeguarding of the vehicle, and
the civil penalty, are hereby declared to be liens against the vehicle which
must be paid prior to the release of the vehicle.
(1989 Code, § 18-42; 2003 Code, § 10-3.3) (Amended 7-6-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
5-6.2 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned and derelict motor vehicles, see G.S. §§ 20-137.6 et seq., 20-
219.2 et seq.
   Authority to remove and dispose of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see
G.S. § 160A-303
§ 10-3.4 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or a traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public driveway;
      (3)   Within 25 feet of an intersection;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (6)   At the edge, curb, or anywhere alongside a street or alley in such
manner or under such conditions as to obstruct the free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual unloading
of passengers, or alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction,
when stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Upon any bridge; or
      (8)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under the person’s control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(1989 Code, § 18-43; 2003 Code, § 10-3.4) (Amended 5-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Parking in front of private driveway, fire hydrant, fire station,
intersection of curb lines or fire lane, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 10-3.5 SAME—FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency.
(1989 Code, § 18-44; 2003 Code, § 10-3.5)
§ 10-3.6 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES—COMPLIANCE WITH SIGNS.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described
herein and when signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof,
it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle for any
purpose or period of time, except in accordance with the requirements of §§
10-3.7 through
10-3.10.
(1989 Code, § 18-45; 2003 Code, § 10-3.6)
§ 10-3.7 SAME—PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in §
10-5.20. are hereby designated as passenger loading or unloading zones, and no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, and then only for a period not to exceed ten minutes.
(1989 Code, § 18-46; 2003 Code, § 10-3.7)
§ 10-3.8 SAME—COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in §
10-5.21 are hereby designated as commercial loading and unloading zones, and no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious unloading and
delivery, or pickup and loading of materials and goods, and then only for a
period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(1989 Code, § 18-47; 2003 Code, § 10-3.8)
§ 10-3.9 SAME—PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified in §
10-5.22.
(1989 Code, § 18-48; 2003 Code, § 10-3.9)
§ 10-3.10 SAME—RESTRICTED USE AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, other than a taxicab, in a
taxicab stand when any stop has been officially designated and appropriately
signed; except that, the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop
therein for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers when the stopping does not interfere with any taxicab waiting to
enter or about to enter the zone.
(1989 Code, § 18-49; 2003 Code, § 10-3.10)
§ 10-3.11 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-75 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Adopted 10-4-2022)
ARTICLE 4: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS
Section
   
10-4.1   Application of article
   
10-4.2   Parking signs required
   
10-4.3   Penalty for violation
§ 10-4.1 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE.
   The provisions of this article prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
sworn or non- sworn law enforcement personnel, firefighter, or official
traffic-control device.
(1989 Code, § 18-55; 2003 Code, § 10-4.1) (Amended 7-6-2021)
§ 10-4.2 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other section, any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets, there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no regulations shall be effective unless the signs
are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(1989 Code, § 18-56; 2003 Code, § 10-4.2)
§ 10-4.3 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-75 and/or a civil penalty under § 1.8 of this Code
of Ordinances.
(Adopted 10-4-2022)
ARTICLE 5: SCHEDULES
Section
   
10-5.1   No through truck locations
   
10-5.2   Townwide speed limit
   
10-5.3   Twenty mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.4   Twenty-five mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.5   Thirty mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.6   Thirty-five mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.7   Forty mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.8   Forty-five mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.9   Fifty mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.10   Fifty-five mph zones on state highways
   
10-5.11   Twenty mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.12   Twenty-five mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.13   Thirty mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.14   Forty mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.15   Forty-five mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.16   Fifty mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.17   Fifty-five mph zones on town streets
   
10-5.18   One-way streets
   
10-5.19   Stop intersections
   
10-5.20   Angle or diagonal parking
   
10-5.21   Passenger loading zones
   
10-5.22   Commercial loading zones
   
10-5.23   Public carrier stands
   
10-5.24   School zones
   
10-5.25   Street closures for special events
   
10-5.26   Penalty for violation
§ 10-5.1 NO THROUGH TRUCK LOCATIONS.
   No through truck traffic signs shall be posted in the following locations:
   (A)   Depot Street;
   (B)   Church Street;
   (C)   Tot Street;
   (D)   Hospital Street;
   (E)   Cherry Street;
   (F)   Ridgeview Drive;
   (G)   Salisbury Street;
   (H)   Park Avenue;
   (I)   W. Maple Avenue; and
   (J)   Locust Street.
(1989 Code, § 18-60; 2003 Code, § 10-5.1) (Amended 1-7-2025)
§ 10-5.2 TOWNWIDE SPEED LIMIT.
   Unless otherwise posted, town speed limits are set to 35 mph pursuant to
G.S. § 20-141.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.3 TWENTY MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 20 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: Main Street (U.S. 158), from Lexington Avenue to Gaither Street.
(1989 Code, § 18-61; 2003 Code, § 10-5.2)
§ 10-5.4 TWENTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 25 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: North Main Street (U.S. 158) beginning at a point 500 feet south of
the south property line of Mocksville Elementary School and extending 500 feet
north of the north property line of the school, between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 9:00 a.m., and 2:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. on each day that school is in
session.
(1989 Code, § 18-62; 2003 Code, § 10-5.3)
§ 10-5.5 THIRTY MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 30 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-63; 2003 Code, § 10-5.4)
§ 10-5.6 THIRTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 35 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets:
   (A)   North Main Street (U.S. 158) from West Church Street to Lakecrest
Drive;
   (B)   U.S. 64-601 from South Main Street to Ridgeview Drive.
(Adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.7 FORTY MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 40 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: U.S. 601 from the Mocksville corporate limit, a point approximately
0.27 miles north of U.S. 64 (Wilkesboro Street), northward to the town
corporate limit, a point approximately 0.05 mile north of S.R. 1461 (Country
Lane).
(2003 Code, § 10-5.5) (Adopted 5-7-1991)
§ 10-5.8 FORTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 45 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets:
   (A)   U.S. 64-601 from Ridgeview Drive (NS), northward to the town corporate
limit, a point approximately 0.10 miles south of U.S. 64 (Wilkesboro Street);
   (B)   U.S. 64 from Main Street to the eastern corporate limit;
   (C)   U.S. 158 east from Lakecrest Drive to the town limits;
   (D)   U.S. 601 north from Country Lane (NS) to Boyce Drive;
   (E)   Sanford Avenue (S.R. 1140) from 0.29 mile south of intersection of US
601/64 to town limits;
   (F)   Country Lane from U.S. 601 to the town limits;
   (G)   Milling Road from U.S. 158 to the town limits;
   (H)   Bethel Church Road (S.R. Road 1301) from Milling Road (S.R. 1600) to
John Crotts Road (S.R. 1602).
(1989 Code, § 18-65; 2003 Code, § 10-5.6) (Amended 5-7-1991; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.9 FIFTY MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 50 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-66; 2003 Code, § 10-5.7)
§ 10-5.10 FIFTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   A 55 mph speed limit shall apply on the following state highway system
streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-67; 2003 Code, § 10-5.8)
§ 10-5.11 TWENTY MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 20 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-68; 2003 Code, § 10-5.9)
§ 10-5.12 TWENTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 25 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets:
   (A)   Applegate Court;
   (B)   Ash Drive;
   (C)   Avon Street;
   (D)   Azalea Drive;
   (E)   Beechwood Drive;
   (F)   Bingham Street;
   (G)   Birchwood Lane;
   (H)   Blue Bonnett Court;
   (I)   Boger Street;
   (J)   Carolina Street;
   (K)   Carrie Circle;
   (L)   Cartner Street;
   (M)   Cemetery Street;
   (N)   Center Street;
   (O)   Charleston Ridge Drive;
   (P)   Cherry Street;
   (Q)   Church Street Extension;
   (R)   West Church Street;
   (S)   Circle Drive;
   (T)   Cloister Drive;
   (U)   Covenant Circle;
   (V)   Crestview Drive;
   (W)   Crowe Street;
   (X)   Cyprus Cove Drive;
   (Y)   South Davie Drive;
   (Z)   Delaware Court;
   (AA)   Duke Street;
   (BB)   East Coast Drive;
   (CC)   East Lake Drive;
   (DD)   Edison Street;
   (EE)   Eli Avenue;
   (FF)   Elisha Creek Drive;
   (GG)   Elmwood Street;
   (HH)   Etchison Street;
   (II)   Fairmont Drive;
   (JJ)   Foster Street;
   (KK)   Forest Lane;
   (LL)   Foxdale Court;
   (MM)   Fulton Street;
   (NN)   Garner Street;
   (OO)   Georgia Court;
   (PP)   Greenwood Avenue;
   (QQ)   Grey Street;
   (RR)   Gumtree Court;
   (SS)   Gwyn Street;
   (TT)   Hallander Drive;
   (UU)   Harding Street;
   (VV)   Heather Court;
   (WW)   Hemlock Street;
   (XX)   Hillcrest Street;
   (YY)   Hillcrest Court;
   (ZZ)   Hollow Hill Court;
   (AAA)   Holly Lane;
   (BBB)   Holman Street;
   (CCC)   Hospital Street Extension;
   (DDD)   Howard Street;
   (EEE)   Hunt Street;
   (FFF)   Ken Dwiggins Drive;
   (GGG)   Leila Court;
   (HHH)   Locust Street;
   (III)   Magnolia Avenue;
   (JJJ)   East Maple Avenue;
   (KKK)   West Maple Avenue;
   (LLL)   Marconi Street;
   (MMM)   Marklin Avenue;
   (NNN)   Marlene Street;
   (OOO)   Midland Street;
   (PPP)   Mill Street;
   (QQQ)   Morse Street;
   (RRR)   Mountview Drive;
   (SSS)   Mumford Drive;
   (TTT)   Naylor Street;
   (UUU)   Neely Street;
   (VVV)   New Hampshire Court;
   (WWW)   Nordwin Court;
   (XXX)   North Carolina Circle;
   (YYY)   Oak Street;
   (ZZZ)   Park Avenue;
   (AAAA)   Park Place Court;
   (BBBB)   Pine Street;
   (CCCC)   Polaris Drive;
   (DDDD)   Raymond Street;
   (EEEE)   Rhode Island Court;
   (FFFF)   Rolling Hills Lane;
   (GGGG)   South Salisbury Street (Hardison Street to South Main Street);
   (HHHH)   Sofley Street;
   (IIII)   Spring Street;
   (JJJJ)   Spruce Street;
   (KKKK)   Sterling Drive;
   (LLLL)   Summit Drive;
   (MMMM)   Sunny Dell Lane;
   (NNNN)   Sweetgum Drive;
   (OOOO)   Tot Street;
   (PPPP)   Turnberry Court;
   (QQQQ)   Turnberry Drive;
   (RRRR)   Virginia Court;
   (SSSS)   Wandering Lane;
   (TTTT)   North Wentworth Drive;
   (UUUU)   South Wentworth Drive;
   (VVVV)   Whitney Road;
   (WWWW)   Williams Street;
   (XXXX)   Winding Creek Road;
   (YYYY)   Windsong Road;
   (ZZZZ)   Windward Circle;
   (AAAAA)   Woodpark Drive;
   (BBBBB)   Wright Lane.
(1989 Code, § 18-69; 2003 Code, § 10-5.10) (Amended 9-13-2016; Amended 11-2-
2021)
§ 10-5.13 THIRTY MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 30 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-70; 2003 Code, § 10-5.11)
§ 10-5.14 FORTY MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 40 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-71; 2003 Code, § 10-5.12)
§ 10-5.15 FORTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 45 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets:
   (A)   Sanford Avenue from western corporate limit, eastward to a point
approximately 0.85 miles east of S.R. 1141, thence eastward to a point 0.50
miles west of Salisbury Street (U.S. 64-601);
   (B)   Country Lane from U.S. 601 to northern corporate limit;
   (C)   Milling Road from U.S. 158 to eastern corporate limit; and
   (D)   U.S. 158 from Lakecrest Drive to northern corporate limit.
(1989 Code, § 18-72; 2003 Code, § 10-5.13) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.16 FIFTY MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 50 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-73; 2003 Code, § 10-5.14)
§ 10-5.17 FIFTY-FIVE MPH ZONES ON TOWN STREETS.
   A 55 mph speed limit shall apply on the following town streets: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-74; 2003 Code, § 10-5.15)
§ 10-5.18 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets or portions of streets are hereby designated as one-
way streets or portions of streets:
   (A)   Foster Street from north to south;
   (B)   Clement Street from south to north from Depot to Gaither; and
   (C)   Williams Street from south to north from Hwy 64 to East Depot Street.
(1989 Code, § 18-75; 2003 Code, § 10-5.16) (Amended 10-4-2022)
§ 10-5.19 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections at which "stop" is required before entering are as follows:
   (A)   Ariel Court at Whitney Road;
   (B)   Avgol Drive at Duke Street and CPP Global Drive;
   (C)   Avon Street at Raymond Street and at Tot Street;
   (D)   Avon Street at Raymond Street;
   (E)   Avon Street at Tot Street on east and west side (none at Raymond);
   (F)   Azalea Drive and Magnolia Avenue;
   (G)   Bailey Street at Depot Street;
   (H)   Beechwood Drive at Magnolia Avenue and Birchwood Lane;
   (I)   Bethel Church Road at Milling;
   (J)   Birchwood Lane at Beechwood Drive;
   (K)   Boger Street at Salisbury Street and South Main Street;
   (L)   Brookview Court at Whitney Road;
   (M)   Buck Hill Road at Deer Run Drive at north and south intersections;
   (N)   Carolina Avenue at Milling Road;
   (O)   Carriage Cove Circle at Polaris Drive at north and south
intersections;
   (P)   Cemetery Street at North Main Street;
   (Q)   Center Street at Depot Street;
   (R)   Chaffin Street at Depot Street;
   (S)   Charleston Ridge Drive at U.S. 64 East;
   (T)   Charleston Meadow Loop at Charleston Ridge Drive;
   (U)   Cherry Street at North Main Street and at Railway Street;
   (V)   Church Street Extensions at Wilkesboro Street;
   (W)   Circle Drive at U.S. 601;
   (X)   Clement Street at Lexington Avenue, both sides of Water Street, both
sides of Depot Street and at Gaither Street;
   (Y)   CPP Global Drive at Salisbury Street
   (Z)   Crowe Street at U.S. 158;
   (AA)   Deer Run Drive at Deer Run Drive at west side of loop;
   (BB)   Deer Run Drive at U.S. 64 E;
   (CC)   Doe Trail at Buck Hill Road;
   (DD)   Doe Trail at Deer Run Drive;
   (EE)   Depot Street at Salisbury Street and at U.S. 64 East;
   (FF)   Dr. Slate Drive at Meroney Street;
   (GG)   Duke Street at Salisbury Street and at Hardison Street;
   (HH)   East Church Street at North Main Street;
   (II)   East Lake Drive at U.S. 64;
   (JJ)   East Lake Drive at Polaris Drive;
   (KK)   Edison Street at Wilkesboro Street and at Garner Street;
   (LL)   Elisha Creek Drive at Carmel Cove Drive;
   (MM)   Elisha Creek Drive at Milling Road;
   (NN)   Enterprise Way at Quality Drive;
   (OO)   Etchison Street at Martin Luther King Road;
   (PP)   Forrest Lane and Salisbury Street;
   (QQ)   Foster Street at Walnut Street and at Railway Street;
   (RR)   Fulton Street at Milling Road;
   (SS)   Garner Street at Mumford Drive;
   (TT)   Greenwood Avenue at U.S. 158 and at Carolina Avenue;
   (UU)   Grey Street at Ridgeview Drive and at Tot Street;
   (VV)   Gwyn Street at Avon Street and at Hospital Street;
   (WW)   Haley Court at Whitney Road;
   (XX)   Hallander Drive at North Main Street;
   (YY)   Harding Street at South Main Street;
   (ZZ)   Hardison Street at Salisbury Street;
   (AAA)   Hemlock Street at North Main Street;
   (BBB)   Hillcrest Drive at Martin Luther King Road;
   (CCC)   Hillcrest Street at Martin Luther King Road;
   (DDD)   Holly Lane at Beechwood Drive;
   (EEE)   Holman Street at Martin Luther King Road;
   (FFF)   Hospital Street at Ridgeview Drive;
   (GGG)   Hospital Street at Wilkesboro Street and at Valley Road;
   (HHH)   Howard Street at Duke Street;
   (III)   Hunt Street at Spring Street;
   (JJJ)   Islee Court at Whitney Road;
   (KKK)   Industrial Boulevard at Milling Road;
   (LLL)   Kelly Avenue at South Salisbury Street;
   (MMM)   Lakecrest Drive at U.S. 158;
   (NNN)   Lakeview Drive at Milling Road;
   (OOO)   Locust Street at Sanford Avenue and at Maple Avenue Extension;
   (PPP)   Maple Avenue at Salisbury Street and at South Main Street;
   (QQQ)   Maple Avenue Extension at Salisbury Street;
   (RRR)   Marklin Avenue at Hospital Street Extension;
   (SSS)   Martin Luther King Road at North Main Street;
   (TTT)   Meroney Street at Hospital Street;
   (UUU)   Mill Street at U.S. 64;
   (VVV)   Morse Street at Milling Road;
   (WWW)   Mountview Drive at Bethel Church Road;
   (XXX)   North Clement Street at West Church Street;
   (YYY)   Naylor Street at Church Street Extension;
   (ZZZ)   Naylor Street at Edison Street;
   (AAAA)   Neely Street at Depot Street and at Walnut Street;
   (BBBB)   New Hampshire Court at Jericho Church Street;
   (CCCC)   Northridge Court at Milling Road;
   (DDDD)   Oak Street at North Main Street and at Spring Street;
   (EEEE)   Park Avenue and Church Street;
   (FFFF)   Park Drive at Park Avenue;
   (GGGG)   Pine Street at North Main Street and at Depot Street;
   (HHHH)   Poplar Street at North Main Street;
   (IIII)   Quality Drive at U.S. 601;
   (JJJJ)   Railroad Street at Depot Street;
   (KKKK)   Raymond Street at Hospital Street and at Tot Street;
   (LLLL)   Ridgeview Drive at Valley Road;
   (MMMM)   Rolling Hills Lane at Milling Road;
   (NNNN)   South Davie Drive at Sanford Avenue;
   (OOOO)   Sanford Avenue at Salisbury Street;
   (PPPP)   Sofley Avenue at Wilkesboro Street and at Garner Street;
   (QQQQ)   Spring Street at North Main Street;
   (RRRR)   Spruce Street at North Main Street;
   (SSSS)   Stewart Street at North Main Street;
   (TTTT)   Sunset Drive at U.S. 158;
   (UUUU)   Tot Street at Valley Road, both sides of Gywn Street and at
Wilkesboro Street;
   (VVVV)   Valley Road at Sanford Road;
   (WWWW)   Virginia Court at Jericho Church Street;
   (XXXX)   Walnut Street at Railway Street and both sides of Pine Street;
   (YYYY)   Both ends of Wandering Lane;
   (ZZZZ)   Water Street at Salisbury Street;
   (AAAAA)   Water Street at South Main Street;
   (BBBBB)   West Church Street at North Main Street and at Garner Street;
   (CCCCC)   West Maple Avenue at South Main Street; and
   (DDDDD)   Williams Street at Depot Street and at U.S. 64.
(1989 Code, § 18-76; 2003 Code, § 10-5.17) (Amended 11-2-2021; Amended 10-3-
2023)
§ 10-5.20 ANGLE OR DIAGONAL PARKING.
   All vehicles shall be parked diagonally within the lines drawn for parking
on the following streets or portions thereof:
   (A)   Main Street from Gaither Street to Water Street;
   (B)   Water Street from Salisbury Street to Clement Street; and
   (C)   Salisbury Street from Lexington Road to Gaither Street.
(1989 Code, § 18-77; 2003 Code, § 10-5.18) (Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.21 PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   Passenger loading and unloading zones shall be as follows: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-78; 2003 Code, § 10-5.19)
§ 10-5.22 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   The following streets or portions thereof are designated as commercial
loading and unloading zones: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-79; 2003 Code, § 10-5.20)
§ 10-5.23 PUBLIC CARRIER STANDS.
   The following streets or portions of streets shall be reserved as stands for
the specific purpose and at the exact location described: reserved.
(1989 Code, § 18-80; 2003 Code, § 10-5.21)
§ 10-5.24 SCHOOL ZONES.
   The portion of South Davie Drive adjacent to South Davie Middle School;
Cemetery Street adjacent to Mocksville Elementary School; and Martin Luther
King Road adjacent to Central Davie Academy are each designated as School Zones
within the meaning of G.S. §§ 20-141 and 20-141.1. The speed limits in each
School Zone is 20 miles per hour during the effective time periods set forth
below.
   (A)   South Davie School Zone. The effective time of the South Davie Middle
School Zone is from 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on
the days Monday through Friday when school is in session for which the 20 miles
per hour speed limit applies.
   (B)   Mocksville Elementary School Zone. The effective time of the
Mocksville Elementary School Zone is from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on the days
Monday through Friday when school is in session.
   (C)   Central Davie Academy School Zone. The effective time of the Central
Davie Academy School Zone is from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on the days Monday
through Friday when school is in session.
(Ord. passed 7-5-2017; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.25 STREET CLOSURES FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 20-169 the following
portions of streets are temporarily closed during the date(s) and times set
forth below.
 
Event                  Street Location             Date and Time
                       West Depot St.              First Saturday in May
Daniel Boone Festival  Main St. to S. Salisbury    8:30 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
                       St.
                       Main St. (Martin Luther
                       King Rd to Hwy 64)
                       E. Depot St. and Main St.
                       to Railroad St.
                       W. Depot St. and Main St.   July 4
Fourth of July Tractor to S. Clement St.           10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.
Parade                 Gaither St. and N. Main St.  
                       to N. Salisbury St.
                       W. Church St. and N. Main
                       St. to Clement St.
                       All side streets blocked at
                       entrance to Main St.
                       West Depot St. (Main St. to
Oaks Festival          S. Salisbury St.)           Second Saturday in October
                       Salisbury St. (Gaither St.  8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.
                       to Water St.)
Main Street Superhero  Main St. (Gaither St. to    First Friday after Veteran's
Sprint                 Hwy 64)                     Day
                                                  5:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
 
   (B)   Street closures adopted pursuant to this section shall only become
effective when signs are erected by town staff or officials authorized by the
Town Manager, giving notice of the limits and times of the parade or other
event, and adequate traffic controls have been implemented to guide vehicles
around the parade or event route.
(Ord. 2018-1, passed 2-6-2018; Amended 10-5-2021; Amended 11-2-2021)
§ 10-5.26 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating this article shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor,
under G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-75 and/or a civil penalty under §
1.8 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Adopted 10-4-2022)
APPENDIX A: FRANCHISES
   This table shows the date of adoption or amendment of any franchise granted
by the town.
Subject   Date of Adoption
Adelphia Cable   9-5-2000
Cable Television   4-6-1982
Duke Power   9-6-1988
Energy United   1-4-2000
Piedmont Natural Gas   8-1-1989
Yadkin Valley Telecom (cable)   7- -2003
Yadkin Valley Telecom (telephone)   4-22-1996
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1989 Code and 2003 Code
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
1-593                            1.3
7A-227                           5-4.26
7A-228                           5-4.26
12-3                             1.3
Art. 26, 14-177 through 14-202.1 5-8.4,
                                 5-8.5
Art. 27, 14-203 through 14-208   5-8.4,
                                 5-8.5
Ch. 14, Art. 37                  4-8.3
                                 3-1.17,
                                 3-2.5,
                                 3-2.6,
                                 3-2.7,
                                 4A.2,
                                 5-1.13,
                                 6-1.15,
                                 7-1.1,
14-4                             7-2.4,
                                 7-3.2,
                                 7-5.4,
                                 9-1.2,
                                 9-2.7,
                                 10-2.11,
                                 10-3.11,
                                 10-4.3,
                                 10-5.25
14-202.10 et seq.                8-3.10.3
14-225.1                         3-2.5
14-288.7                         5-1.6
14-288.8(C)                      5-1.6
14-288.12                        5-1.1
14-360                           Ch. III
14-399                           5-5.4
14-399.1                         5-5.4
Ch. 18B                          8-3.10.3
18B-300                          7-1.1
18B-1000(5)                      8-3.10.3
19A-1 et seq.                    Ch. III
20-37                            Ch. IV
20-87                            4-6.1
20-137.6 et seq.                 10-3.3
                                 10-2.1,
20-141                           10-2.2,
                                 10-5.2,
                                 10-5.23
20-141.1                         10-5.23
20-153                           10-2.4
20-158 et seq.                   Ch. X
20-162                           10-3.4
                                 Ch. III,
20-169                           Ch. X,
                                 10-5.24
20-219.2 et seq.                 10-3.3
20-219.11                        5-6.10
                                 4-6.2,
20-280                           4-6.7,
                                 4-6.13
42-29                            5-4.26
42-30                            5-4.26
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                  5-6.12
Ch. 46                           8-2.2,
                                 8-3.10.3
47-30                            8-2.6
Ch. 55A                          8-3.8.88,
                                 8-3.10.3
Ch. 67, Art. 1A                  3-1.3
67-4.1                           3-1.3
67-4.1(c)                        3-1.3
67-4.3                           3-1.3
74-46 through 74-68              8-3.10.3
81A-9                            8-3.10.3
Ch. 89C                          6-6.11
90-621 et seq.                   5-8.3,
                                 8-3.10.3
                                 4-3.1,
Ch. 91A                          4-3.4,
                                 4-3.5
91A-1 et seq.                    4-3.1
91A-3                            4-3.1
100-2.1(a)                       3-3.10
100-2.1(c)(3)                 3-3.10
104E-1 through 104E-23           8-3.10.3
105-164.4(a)                     8-3.8.66
105-164.4(c)                     8-3.8.66
105-164.6)                       8-3.8.66
122C-3(11)(b)                    8-3.10.3
128-21 et seq.                   2-4.1
Ch. 130A                         6-2.2
130A-184 et seq.                 3-1.6
130A-197                         3-1.5
136-18(29)                       8-3.9.4
136-66.2                         8-2.8
136-66.10                        8-2.1
136-66.11                        8-2.1
136-141 et seq.                  5-6.15
136-143                          5-6.15
Ch. 143, Art. 8                  6-6.12
Ch. 143, Art. 9B                 5-3.9
Ch. 143, Art. 21                 6-2.8
Ch. 143, Art. 21A                8-3.10.3
143-128 et seq.                  6-6.12
143-139.1(b)                     5-4.10
143-213(18)                      6-2.1
143-214.5                        8-3.3.3
                                 6-2.1,
143-215.1                        6-2.4,
                                 8-3.10.3
143-215(a)                       6-6.2
143-215.1(b)                     6-2.4
143-215.1(d)                     6-2.1
143-215.1(g)                     6-2.4
143-215.3(a)(14)                 6-2.1
143-215.3C                       6-2.7
143-215.6B                       6-2.8
143-215.6B(f)                    6-2.8
143-215.6B(g)                    6-2.8
143-215.6B(h)                    6-2.8
143-215.6B(i)                    6-2.8
143B-290                         8-3.10.3
153A-10                          8-3.10.3
153A-275                         6-2.1
159-25                           4-1.3
159-28                           4-1.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 4A, Part 1        6-6.3,
                                 6-6.5
Ch. 160A, Art. 4A, Part 7        6-6.3
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                5-4.29
Ch. 160A, Art. 12                4-1.6
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2        2-5.4
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3        2-5.4
Ch. 160A, Art. 22                2-5.4
160A-1                           1.3
160A-31                          8-3.2.2
160A-58.1                        8-3.2.2
160A-69                          2-1.5
160A-70                          2-1.5
160A-71                          2-2.2
160A-74                          2-2.5
                                 10-2.11,
160A-75                          10-3.11,
                                 10-4.3,
                                 10-5.25
160A-77                          1.1
160A-79                          1.1
160A-162(b)                      2-3.10
160A-163                         2-3.10
160A-164                         2-3.10
160A-174                         5-8.1
                                 3-1.17,
                                 3-2.5,
                                 3-2.6,
                                 3-2.7,
                                 4A.2,
                                 5-1.13,
                                 5-4.11,
160A-175                         5-4.28,
                                 6-1.15,
                                 7-1.1,
                                 7-2.4,
                                 7-3.2,
                                 7-5.4,
                                 8-3.9.10,
                                 9-1.2,
                                 9-2.7
160A-176                         1.16
160A-178                         Ch. IV
160A-181.1                       5-8.1
160A-182                         Ch. III
160A-186                         Ch. III
160A-189                         7-2.3
160A-190                         7-2.3
                                 5-4.2,
160A-193                         5-4.28,
                                 5-4.29
160A-194                         Ch. IV,
                                 5-8.1
160A-209(c)(8)                   Ch. III
160A-209(c)(9)                   Ch. III
160A-211                         Ch. IV
160A-266                         4-1.6
160A-266(c)                      4-1.6
160A-281                         2-3.10
160A-282                         2-3.10
160A-285                         2-3.10
160A-286                         2-3.10
                                 5-5.4,
160A-303                         5-6.2,
                                 10-3.3
160A-303.2                       5-6.2
160A-304                         Ch. IV
160A-306                         8-3.7.14
160A-307                         8-3.9.4
160A-312                         6-2.1
160A-312(b)                      6-6.1
160A-314                         6-1.11
160A-320                         6-7.1
160A-341 et seq.                 Ch. III
160A-371 through 160A-376        8-2.1
160A-373                         8-1.3
160A-400.7                       2-5.4
160A-435                         Ch. V
160A-456                         8-1.3
160A-499                         6-6.12,
                                 6-7.1
160A-505                         8-1.3
160A-513                         8-1.3
Ch. 160D                         8-3.1.1,
                                 8-3.10.3
Ch. 160D, Art. 9, Part 3         8-3.8.66
Ch. 160D, Art. 10                6-7.1
Ch. 160D, Art. 12                5-4.10
160D-108(d)                      8-3.2.2
160D-108.1                       8-3.2.2
160D-301                         8-3.10.3
160D-307(a)                      8-3.9.2
160D-403(c)                      8-3.2.2
160D-403(f)                      8-3.2.2
160D-404                         8-3.9.10
160D-405                         8-3.9.10
160D-501                         8-3.10.3
160D-602(b)                      8-3.9.7
160D-604                         8-3.9.2
160D-702(b)                      8-3.9.4
160D-762                         2-5.2
160D-903                         8-3.10.3
160D-915                         5-4.10
160D-931                         8-3.10.3
160D-940 et seq.                 5-4.23
160D-1109                        8-3.2.2
160D-1110                        8-3.2.2
160D-1111                        8-3.2.2
160D-1115                        8-3.2.2
160D-1129                        5-4.2
160D-1201                        5-4.2
160D-1402                        8-3.7.14,
                                 8-3.9.2
160D-1402(c)                     8-3.9.2
Ch. 162A, Art. 8                 6-7.1
162A-207(c)                      6-7.1
166A-7                           Ch. III
166A-8                           5-1.1
168-21                           8-3.10.3
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1989 CODE AND 2003 CODE
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section 2011 Code Section
1989 Code Section 2003 Code Section 2011 Code Section
-                 8-1.1             8-1.1
-                 8-1.2             8-1.2
-                 8-1.3             8-1.3
-                 8-1.4             8-1.4
-                 8-1.5             8-1.5
-                 8-2.1             8-2.1
-                 8-2.2             8-2.2
-                 8-2.3             8-2.3
-                 8-2.4             8-2.4
-                 8-2.5             8-2.5
-                 8-2.6             8-2.6
-                 8-2.7             8-2.7
-                 8-2.8             8-2.8
-                 8-2.9             8-2.9
-                 8-2.10            8-2.10
-                 8-3.1.1           8-3.1.1
-                 8-3.1.2           8-3.1.2
-                 8-3.1.3           8-3.1.3
-                 8-3.1.4           8-3.1.4
-                 8-3.1.5           8-3.1.5
-                 8-3.1.6           8-3.1.6
-                 8-3.1.7           8-3.1.7
-                 8-3.1.8           8-3.1.8
-                 8-3.2.1           8-3.2.1
-                 8-3.2.2           8-3.2.2
-                 8-3.3.1           8-3.3.1
-                 8-3.3.2           8-3.3.2
-                 8-3.3.3           8-3.3.3
-                 8-3.3.4           8-3.3.4
-                 8-3.3.5           8-3.3.5
-                 8-3.4.1           8-3.4.1
-                 8-3.4.2           8-3.4.2
-                 8-3.4.3           8-3.4.3
-                 8-3.4.4           8-3.4.4
-                 8-3.4.5           8-3.4.5
-                 8-3.4.6           8-3.4.6
-                 8-3.4.7           8-3.4.7
-                 8-3.4.8           8-3.4.8
-                 8-3.5.1           8-3.5.1
-                 8-3.5.2           8-3.5.2
-                 8-3.5.3           8-3.5.3
-                 8-3.6.1           8-3.6.1
-                 8-3.6.2           8-3.6.2
-                 8-3.6.3           8-3.6.3
-                 8-3.6.4           8-3.6.4
-                 8-3.6.5           8-3.6.5
-                 8-3.6.6           8-3.6.6
-                 8-3.6.7           8-3.6.7
-                 8-3.6.8           8-3.6.8
-                 8-3.6.9           8-3.6.9
-                 8-3.6.10          8-3.6.10
-                 8-3.6.11          8-3.6.11
-                 8-3.7.1           8-3.7.1
-                 8-3.7.2           8-3.7.2
-                 8-3.7.3           8-3.7.3
-                 8-3.7.4           8-3.7.4
-                 8-3.7.5           8-3.7.5
-                 8-3.7.6           8-3.7.6
-                 8-3.7.7           8-3.7.7
-                 8-3.7.8           8-3.7.8
-                 8-3.7.9           8-3.7.9
-                 8-3.7.10          8-3.7.10
-                 8-3.7.11          8-3.7.11
-                 8-3.7.12          8-3.7.12
-                 8-3.7.13          8-3.7.13
-                 8-3.7.14          8-3.7.14
-                 8-3.7.15          8-3.7.15
-                 8-3.7.16          8-3.7.16
-                 8-3.7.17          8-3.7.17
-                 8-3.7.18          8-3.7.18
-                 8-3.8.1           8-3.8.1
-                 8-3.8.3           8-3.8.3
-                 8-3.8.4           8-3.8.4
-                 8-3.8.5           8-3.8.5
-                 8-3.8.6           8-3.8.6
-                 8-3.8.7           8-3.8.7
-                 8-3.8.8           8-3.8.8
-                 8-3.8.9           8-3.8.9
-                 8-3.8.10          8-3.8.10
-                 8-3.8.11          8-3.8.11
-                 8-3.8.12          8-3.8.12
-                 8-3.8.13          8-3.8.13
-                 8-3.8.14          8-3.8.14
-                 8-3.8.15          8-3.8.15
-                 8-3.8.16          8-3.8.16
-                 8-3.8.17          8-3.8.17
-                 8-3.8.18          8-3.8.18
-                 8-3.8.19          8-3.8.19
-                 8-3.8.20          8-3.8.20
-                 8-3.8.21          8-3.8.21
-                 8-3.8.22          8-3.8.22
-                 8-3.8.23          8-3.8.23
-                 8-3.8.24          8-3.8.24
-                 8-3.8.25          8-3.8.25
-                 8-3.8.26          8-3.8.26
-                 8-3.8.27          8-3.8.27
-                 8-3.8.28          8-3.8.28
-                 8-3.8.29          8-3.8.29
-                 8-3.8.30          8-3.8.30
-                 8-3.8.31          8-3.8.31
-                 8-3.8.32          8-3.8.32
-                 8-3.8.33          8-3.8.33
-                 8-3.8.34          8-3.8.34
-                 8-3.8.35          8-3.8.35
-                 8-3.8.36          8-3.8.36
-                 8-3.8.37          8-3.8.37
-                 8-3.8.38          8-3.8.38
-                 8-3.8.39          8-3.8.39
-                 8-3.8.40          8-3.8.40
-                 8-3.8.41          8-3.8.41
-                 8-3.8.42          8-3.8.42
-                 8-3.8.43          8-3.8.43
-                 8-3.8.44          8-3.8.44
-                 8-3.8.45          8-3.8.45
-                 8-3.8.46          8-3.8.46
-                 8-3.8.47          8-3.8.47
-                 8-3.8.48          8-3.8.48
-                 8-3.8.49          8-3.8.49
-                 8-3.8.50          8-3.8.50
-                 8-3.8.51          8-3.8.51
-                 8-3.8.52          8-3.8.52
-                 8-3.8.54          8-3.8.54
-                 8-3.8.55          8-3.8.55
-                 8-3.8.56          8-3.8.56
-                 8-3.8.57          8-3.8.57
-                 8-3.8.58          8-3.8.58
-                 8-3.8.59          8-3.8.59
-                 8-3.8.60          8-3.8.60
-                 8-3.8.61          8-3.8.61
-                 8-3.8.62          8-3.8.62
-                 8-3.8.63          8-3.8.63
-                 8-3.8.64          8-3.8.64
-                 8-3.8.65          8-3.8.65
-                 8-3.8.67          8-3.8.67
-                 8-3.8.68          8-3.8.68
-                 8-3.8.69          8-3.8.69
-                 8-3.8.70          8-3.8.70
-                 8-3.8.71          8-3.8.71
-                 8-3.8.72          8-3.8.72
-                 8-3.9.1           8-3.9.1
-                 8-3.9.2           8-3.9.2
-                 8-3.9.3           8-3.9.3
-                 8-3.9.4           8-3.9.4
-                 8-3.9.5           8-3.9.5
-                 8-3.9.6           8-3.9.6
-                 8-3.9.7           8-3.9.7
-                 8-3.9.8           8-3.9.8
-                 8-3.9.9           8-3.9.9
-                 8-3.9.10          8-3.9.10
-                 8-3.10.1          8-3.10.1
-                 8-3.10.2          8-3.10.2
-                 8-3.10.3          8-3.10.3
1-1               1.1               1.1
1-2               1.2               1.2
1-3               1.3               1.3
1-4               1.4               1.4
1-5               1.5               1.5
1-6               1.6               1.6
1-7               1.7               1.7
1-9               1.11              1.11
1-10              1.12              1.12
1-11              1.13              1.13
1-12              1.14              1.14
1-13              1.15              1.15
1-14              1.16              1.16
2-1               2-1.1             2-1.1
2-2               2-1.2             2-1.2
2-3               2-1.3             2-1.3
2-4               2-1.4             2-1.4
2-5               2-1.5             2-1.5
2-6               2-1.6             2-1.6
2-7               2-1.7             2-1.7
2-8               2-1.8             2-1.8
2-9               2-1.9             2-1.9
2-20              2-2.1             2-2.1
2-21              2-2.2             2-2.2
2-22              2-2.3             2-2.3
2-23              2-2.4             2-2.4
2-24              2-2.5             2-2.5
2-25              2-2.6             2-2.6
2-26              2-2.7             2-2.7
2-27              2-2.8             2-2.8
2-28              2-2.9             2-2.9
2-29              2-2.10            2-2.10
2-30              2-2.11            2-2.11
2-40              2-3.1             2-3.1
2-41              2-3.2             2-3.2
2-42              2-3.3             2-3.3
2-43              2-3.4             2-3.4
2-44              2-3.5             2-3.5
2-45              2-3.6             2-3.6
2-46              2-3.7             2-3.7
2-47              2-3.8             2-3.8
2-48              2-3.9             2-3.9
2-49              2-3.10            2-3.10
14-1              2-4.1             2-4.1
15-31             2-5.1             2-5.1
15-32             2-5.2             2-5.2
15-33             2-5.3             2-5.3
15-34             2-5.4             2-5.4
15-35             2-5.5             2-5.5
15-36             2-5.6             2-5.6
3-1               3-1.1             3-1.1
4-5               5-3.5             5-3.5
4-7               5-3.7             5-3.7
4-9               5-3.9             5-3.9
4-11              5-3.11            5-3.11
4-12              5-3.12            5-3.12
4-15              5-3.15            5-3.15
4-20              5-3.16            5-3.16
4-21              5-3.17            5-3.17
4-22              5-3.18            5-3.18
4-23              5-3.19            5-3.19
4-24              5-3.20            5-3.20
4-25              5-3.25            5-3.25
4-30              5-3.28            5-3.29
4-31              5-3.29            5-3.30
4-32              5-3.30            5-3.31
4-35              5-3.33            5-3.32
4-36              5-3.34            5-3.34
4-37              5-3.35            5-3.35
4-38              5-3.36            5-3.36
5-1               3-3.1             3-3.1
5-2               3-3.2             3-3.2
5-4               3-3.4             3-3.3
5-5               3-3.5             3-3.4
5-6               3-3.6             3-3.5
5-7               3-3.7             3-3.6
5-8               3-3.8             3-3.7
5-9               3-3.9             3-3.8
5-10              3-3.10            3-3.9
5-11              3-3.11            3-3.10
7-1               4-1.1             4-1.1
7-2               4-1.2             4-1.2
7-3               4-1.3             4-1.3
8-1               5-2.1             5-2.1
8-2               5-2.2             5-2.2
8-3               5-2.3             5-2.3
8-4               5-2.4             5-2.4
9-3               5-5.4             5-5.4
9-4               5-5.5             5-5.5
9-5               5-5.6             5-5.6
9-6               5-5.7             5-5.7
9-7               5-5.8             5-5.8
9-8               5-5.9             5-5.9
9-9               5-5.10            5-5.10
9-10              5-5.11            5-5.11
10-20             6-1.1             6-1.1
10-21             6-1.2             6-1.2
10-22             6-1.3             6-1.3
10-23             6-1.4             6-1.4
10-24             6-1.5             6-1.5
10-25             6-1.6             6-1.6
10-26             6-1.7             6-1.7
10-27             6-1.8             6-1.8
10-28             6-1.9             6-1.9
10-29             6-1.10            6-1.10
10-30             6-1.11            6-1.11
10-31             6-1.12            6-1.12
10-32             6-1.13            6-1.13
10-33             6-1.15            6-1.15
10-34             6-1.16            6-1.16
10-90             6-3.1             6-3.1
10-91             6-3.2             6-3.2
10-92             6-3.3             6-3.3
10-93             6-3.4             6-3.4
10-94             6-3.5             6-3.5
10-96             6-3.7             6-3.6
10-97             6-3.8             6-3.7
10-98             6-3.9             6-3.8
10-99             6-3.10            6-3.9
11-16             4-1.4             4-1.4
11-22             4-3.1             4-3.3
11-23             4-3.4             4-3.4
11-40             4-5.1             4-5.1
11-41             4-5.2             4-5.2
11-42             4-5.3             4-5.3
11-43             4-5.4             4-5.4
11-44             4-5.5             4-5.5
11-45             4-5.6             4-5.6
11-46             4-5.7             4-5.7
11-47             4-5.8             4-5.8
11-57             5-8.12            5-8.12
11-58             5-8.13            5-8.13
11-70             4-6.1             4-6.1
11-71             4-6.2             4-6.7
11-72             4-6.3             4-6.8
11-73             4-6.4             4-6.9
11-74             4-6.5             4-6.10
11-75             4-6.6             4-6.11
11-76             4-6.7             4-6.12
11-77             4-6.8             4-6.13
11-78             4-6.9             4-6.14
11-79             4-6.10            4-6.15
11-80             4-6.11            4-6.16
11-81             4-6.12            4-6.17
11-90             4-6.13            4-6.18
11-100            4-7.1             4-7.1
11-101            4-7.2             4-7.2
12-1              7-1.1             7-1.1
12-1              7-1.2             7-1.2
12-2              7-2.1             7-2.1
12-2              7-2.2             7-2.2
12-2              7-2.3             7-2.3
12-3              7-3.1             7-3.1
12-4              7-4.1             7-4.1
12-5              7-4.2             7-4.2
12-6              7-5.1             7-5.1
12-7              7-5.2             7-5.2
12-8              7-5.3             7-5.3
12-20             3-2.1             3-2.1
12-21             3-2.2             3-2.2
12-22             3-2.3             3-2.3
12-23             3-2.4             3-2.4
12-24             3-2.5             3-2.5
12-25             3-2.6             3-2.6
12-26             3-2.7             3-2.7
12-27             3-2.8             3-2.8
13-1              3-4.1             3-4.1
16-1              9-1.1             9-1.1
16-8              9-1.2             9-1.2
16-9              9-1.3             9-1.3
16-40             9-2.1             9-2.1
16-41             9-2.2             9-2.2
16-42             9-2.4             9-2.4
16-43             9-2.5             9-2.5
16-44             9-2.6             9-2.6
16-20             9-3.1             9-3.1
16-21             9-3.2             9-3.2
16-22             9-3.3             9-3.3
16-23             9-3.4             9-3.4
16-24             9-3.5             9-3.5
16-25             9-3.6             9-3.6
16-26             9-3.7             9-3.7
16-27             9-3.8             9-3.8
16-28             9-3.9             9-3.9
16-29             9-3.10            9-3.10
16-30             9-3.11            9-3.11
16-31             9-3.12            9-3.12
16-32             9-3.13            9-3.13
16-2              9-4.3             9-4.3
16-3              9-4.4             9-4.4
18-1              10-1.1            10-1.1
18-2              10-1.2            10-1.2
18-3              10-1.3            10-1.3
18-4              10-1.4            10-1.4
18-5              10-1.5            10-1.5
18-6              10-1.6            10-1.6
18-20             10-2.1            10-2.1
18-21             10-2.2            10-2.2
18-22             10-2.3            10-2.3
18-23             10-2.4            10-2.4
18-24             10-2.5            10-2.5
18-25             10-2.6            10-2.6
18-26             10-2.7            10-2.7
18-27             10-2.8            10-2.8
18-28             10-2.9            10-2.9
18-29             10-2.10           10-2.10
18-40             10-3.1            10-3.1
18-41             10-3.2            10-3.2
18-42             10-3.3            10-3.3
18-43             10-3.4            10-3.4
18-44             10-3.5            10-3.5
18-45             10-3.6            10-3.6
18-46             10-3.7            10-3.7
18-47             10-3.8            10-3.8
18-48             10-3.9            10-3.9
18-49             10-3.10           10-3.10
18-55             10-4.1            10-4.1
18-56             10-4.2            10-4.2
18-60             10-5.1            10-5.1
18-61             10-5.2            10-5.3
18-62             10-5.3            10-5.4
18-63             10-5.4            10-5.5
18-65             10-5.6            10-5.8
18-66             10-5.7            10-5.9
18-67             10-5.8            10-5.10
18-68             10-5.9            10-5.11
18-69             10-5.10           10-5.12
18-70             10-5.11           10-5.13
18-71             10-5.12           10-5.14
18-72             10-5.13           10-5.15
18-73             10-5.14           10-5.16
18-74             10-5.15           10-5.17
18-75             10-5.16           10-5.18
18-76             10-5.17           10-5.19
18-77             10-5.18           10-5.20
18-78             10-5.19           10-5.21
18-79             10-5.20           10-5.22
18-80             10-5.21           10-5.23
                                   
 
