NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 1-8-2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-3
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA,
ENACTING A UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE FOR THE TOWN OF NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH,
NORTH CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
SUCH UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   WHEREAS, Sections 160A-77 and 160A-78 of the North Carolina General Statutes
require municipalities to maintain a code of ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Town of North Topsail Beach has entered into a contract with
American Legal Publishing to properly organize and index the Town's Unified
Development Ordinance; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Town Board to adopt the newly organized and
indexed Unified Development Ordinance.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE TOWN OF NORTH
TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA, this 3rd day of May 2017, that the ordinances of
the Town of North Topsail Beach as revised, amended, restated, codified and
complied in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the "Unified
Development Ordinances for the Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina";
and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that such Unified Development Ordinance as adopted
shall consist of the following titles: General Provisions, Administration,
Zoning, Use Regulations, Dimensional Requirements, Development Standards, Flood
Damage Prevention, Signs, Nonconformities, Enforcement, and Definitions; and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that all prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated in the Unified Development Ordinance shall be deemed repealed from and
after the effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and
reordained in whole or in part in such Unified Development Ordinance; provided,
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary
or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Unified Development Ordinance.
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted this the 3rd day of May, 2017.
(Seal)
APPROVED:
Fred J. Burns /s/
Fred J. Burns
Mayor
ATTEST:
C. Z. Faulkner /s/
C. Z. Faulkner
Asst. Town Manager/Town Clerk
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Article
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   ADMINISTRATION
      
3.   ZONING
      
4.   USE REGULATIONS
      
5.   DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
      
6.   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
      
7.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
8.   SIGNS
      
9.   NONCONFORMITIES
      
10.   ENFORCEMENT
      
11.   DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1.01   Official title
   
1.02   Effective date
   
1.03   Authority
   
1.04   References to North Carolina General Statutes
   
1.05   Jurisdiction
   
1.06   Enactment
   
1.07   Purpose
   
1.07.01   Relationship to existing ordinances
   
1.07.02   Relationship to CAMA Land Use Plan
   
1.08   Rules of construction and interpretation
   
1.09   Severability
   
1.10   Changes and amendments
   
1.11   Development approvals run with the land
   
1.12   Refund of illegal fees
   
1.13   Appointments to boards
   
1.14   Oath of office
   
1.15   Rules of procedure
   
1.16   Conflicts of interest
§ 1.01 OFFICIAL TITLE.
   (A)   This ordinance is officially titled as the “Unified Development
Ordinance of Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina”, and shall be known
as the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) or the ordinance. The official map
designating the various zoning districts shall be titled “Town of North Topsail
Beach Zoning Map”, and shall be known as the zoning map.
   (B)   The official map designating the various zoning districts shall be
titled “Town of North Topsail Beach Zoning Map”, and shall be known as the
zoning map.
      (1)   The zoning map shall be maintained for public inspection in the
Office of the Town Clerk. The maps may be in paper or a digital format approved
by the local government.
      (2)   Development regulations adopted pursuant to this ordinance may
reference or incorporate by reference flood insurance rate maps, watershed
boundary maps, or other maps officially adopted or promulgated by state and
federal agencies. For these maps, a regulation text or zoning map may reference
a specific officially adopted map or may incorporate by reference the most
recent officially adopted version of such maps. When zoning district boundaries
are based on these maps, the regulation may provide that the zoning district
boundaries are automatically amended to remain consistent with changes in the
officially promulgated state or federal maps, provided a copy of the currently
effective version of any incorporated map shall be maintained for public
inspection as provided in paragraph (A) of this section.
      (3)   Copies of the zoning map may be reproduced by any method of
reproduction that gives legible and permanent copies and, when certified by the
Town Clerk in accordance with G.S. § 160A-79 or G.S. § 153A-50, shall be
admissible into evidence and shall have the same force and effect as would the
original map.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This ordinance and its provisions governing the use of land and
buildings, the height of buildings and other matters as hereinafter set forth
are hereby established and declared to be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and any zoning ordinance previously adopted is hereby
repealed.
   (B)   This ordinance shall become effective November 2, 2011.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 1.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the statutory authority provided
in the state statutes. The legislature of the state has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art.
21, Part 6; G.S. § 160D-103 delegated to local governmental units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Zoning provisions enacted herein are under the authority of G.S. Ch.
160D, Art. 7 Zoning, which extends to towns the authority to enact regulations
which promote the health, safety, morals, or the general welfare of the
community. It is further authorized under G.S. § 160A-382 which authorizes
towns to regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures, or land. This section
further authorizes the establishment of overlay districts in which additional
regulations may be imposed upon properties that lie within the boundary of the
district. The statutes also require that all such regulations shall be uniform
for each class or type of building throughout each district, but that the
regulations in one district may differ from those in other districts.
   (C)   Subdivision provisions enacted herein are under the authority of G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 8 Subdivision Regulations, which provide for the coordination of
streets within proposed subdivisions with existing or planned street and with
other public facilities, the dedication or reservation of recreation areas
serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision, or
alternatively, for the provision of funds to be used to acquire recreation
areas serving residents of more than one neighborhood in the immediate area,
and for the distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid
congestion and overcrowding.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.04 REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this ordinance refers to or cites a section
of the state statutes, and that section is later amended or superseded, this
ordinance shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the
section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
   (B)   As of July 1, 2021, to the extent that this ordinance may conflict
with G.S. Ch. 160D, Controls.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.05 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations govern the development and use of all land, waters and
structures within the corporate limits of the town. No building, premises or
structure shall be constructed, erected, modified, converted, occupied, placed,
maintained or moved, and no land use shall be commenced, maintained or
modified, except as authorized by this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011) Penalty, see §
10.06
§ 1.06 ENACTMENT.
   This ordinance is hereby enacted and shall be the unified development
ordinance for the town. Upon date of adoption, these regulations shall
supersede, repeal and replace Chapter 7 Planning and Zoning, Chapter 8 Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance and Chapter 9 Environmental Control.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 1.07 PURPOSE.
   In order to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; to
conserve the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land
throughout the corporate area, there is hereby adopted and established an
official zoning plan of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 1.07.01 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.07.02 RELATIONSHIP TO CAMA LAND USE PLAN.
   This Unified Development Ordinance is intended to coordinate with a
comprehensive plan, referred to as the CAMA Land Use Plan. The administration,
enforcement and amendment of this ordinance shall be carried out consistently
with plans and documents comprising the town’s CAMA Core Land Use Plan
(hereinafter sometimes referred to as “LUP” or “plan”) as adopted by the Board
of Aldermen on March 4, 2021, and certified by the Coastal Resources Commission
on May 17, 2021, as amended. No permits shall be issued for applications
inconsistent with the policies included in this plan. If any provisions of this
ordinance are inconsistent with any of the policies of the plan, the more
restrictive provision shall control.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.08 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Numbering style: the provisions of this ordinance are organized into
the following hierarchical structure:
   Articles
      Divisions
         Sections
            Subsections
               Paragraphs
                  Subparagraphs
   (B)   The word “Article” precedes all article numbers.
   (C)   The first numerals in a section number (before the first period)
identify the article in which the section is located. The numerals following
the period identify the section number. Thus, “
1.10” indicates § 10 of Article 1.
   (D)   Subsections follow the numbering scheme of section numbers. The first
numerals in a section number (before the first period) identify the article.
The numerals following the first period identify the section number, and the
numerals after the second period identify the subsection. Thus, “1.10.1”
identifies subsection 1 of § 10 of Article 1.
   (E)   Paragraphs within subsections are identified by capital letters within
parentheses.
   (F)   Arabic numerals within parentheses are used to identify subparagraphs.
   (G)   Small letters in parenthesis identify sub-subparagraphs.
   (H)   Interpretation and conflict: in interpreting and applying the
provisions of this ordinance, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public safety, health, convenience, prosperity and
general welfare. It is not intended by this ordinance to interfere with,
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties;
provided, however, that where this ordinance imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings, or requires
larger open spaces than are imposed or required by other ordinances, rules,
regulations, or by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this
ordinance shall govern.
   (I)   Italicized paragraphs within quotation marks are to be considered
sample text for illustrative purposes. Italicized words and phrases without
quotation marks throughout this ordinance are defined in Article 11,
Definitions.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is
for any reason held to be invalid by the courts, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.10 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen may, on its own motion, upon recommendation of
the Planning Board, or upon petition by any interested person, amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal the regulations or district boundaries
established by this ordinance.
   (B)   A petition by an interested person shall be submitted to the Board of
Aldermen through and reviewed by the Planning Board, which shall consider its
merit and make a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   In no case shall final action by the Board of Aldermen be taken on
amending, changing, supplementing, modifying or repealing the regulations or
district boundaries hereby established until a legislative hearing has been
held by the Board of Aldermen at which parties in interest and citizens shall
have an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 7-6-06, passed - -; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.11 DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS RUN WITH THE LAND.
   Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits, burdens,
and obligations created by development approvals made pursuant to this article
attach to and run with the land. (G.S. § 160D-104)
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.12 REFUND OF ILLEGAL FEES.
   If the town is found to have illegally imposed a tax, fee, or monetary
contribution for development or a development approval not specifically
authorized by law, the town shall return the tax, fee, or monetary contribution
plus interest of 6% per annum to the person who made the payment or as directed
by a court if the person making the payment is no longer in existence. (G.S. §
160D-106)
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.13 APPOINTMENTS TO BOARDS.
   Unless specified otherwise by statute or local ordinance, all appointments
to boards authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D shall be made by the Board of Aldermen.
The Board of Aldermen may establish reasonable procedures to solicit, review,
and make appointments.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.14 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards under this article shall, before entering
their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as required by G.S. §§ 153A-
26 and 160A-61.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.15 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this article
may be adopted by the Board of Aldermen for any or all boards created under
this article. In the absence of action by the Board of Aldermen, each board
created under this article is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure
that are consistent with the provisions of this article. A copy of any adopted
rules of procedure shall be maintained by the local government Clerk or such
other official as designated by ordinance and posted on the local government
web site if one exists. Each board shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 1.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Board of Aldermen. A Board of Aldermen member shall not vote on any
legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to
this article where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. A Board of Aldermen member shall not vote on any zoning
amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or
the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed boards. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this article where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this article if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance.
   (D)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this article unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the local
government, as determined by the local government.
   (E)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this article shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (F)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member’s
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (G)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a “close familial
relationship” means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
ARTICLE 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
2.01   Application
   
2.02   Planning Board
   
2.02.01   Creation
   
2.02.02   Composition
   
2.02.03   Appointments
   
2.02.04   Terms
   
2.02.05   Compensation
   
2.02.06   Chairperson
   
2.02.07   Meetings
   
2.02.08   Voting
   
2.02.09   Duties and responsibilities
   
2.03   Board of Adjustment
   
2.03.01   Establishment of the Board of Adjustment
   
2.03.02   Duties
   
2.03.03   Quasi-judicial decisions and judicial review
   
2.03.04   Variances
   
2.03.05   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
2.04   Other advisory boards
   
2.05   Administrative staff
   
2.05.01   Planning Director
   
2.05.02   Building Inspector
   
2.05.03   Floodplain Administrator
   
2.06   Summary procedures
   
2.07   Text and map amendment
   
2.07.01   Procedure for adopting, amending, or repealing this ordinance
   
2.07.02    Notice of hearing on proposed zoning map amendments
   
2.07.03    Governing Board statement
   
2.08   Common review procedures
   
2.09   Simultaneous processing of applications
   
2.10   Conditions of approval
   
2.11   Statutory vested rights and permit choice
   
2.12   Vested rights - site-specific vesting plans
   
2.13   Development agreements
   
2.13.01   Authorization
   
2.13.02   Definitions
   
2.13.03   Approval of governing board required
   
2.13.04   Size and duration
   
2.13.05   Hearing
   
2.13.06   Content and modification
   
2.13.07   Vesting
   
2.13.08   Breach and cure
   
2.13.09   Amendment or termination
   
2.13.10   Change of jurisdiction
   
2.13.11   Recordation
   
2.13.12   Applicability of procedures to approve debt
   
2.14   Required development permits
   
2.14.01   CAMA permit
   
2.14.02   Floodplain development permit
   
2.14.03   Zoning permit
   
2.14.04   Building permit
   
2.15   Administrative development approvals and determinations
   
2.16   Lapse of approval
   
2.17   Enforcement
   
2.17.01   Notices of violation
   
2.17.02   Stop work orders
   
2.17.03   Remedies
   
2.18   Specific development approvals
   
2.19   Planned unit developments (PUDS)
   
2.20   Special use permits
   
2.21   Subdivision of land
   
2.21.01   Security for uncompleted improvements
   
2.22   Special plat approval
   
2.23   Commercial plan review
§   2.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall apply to all development
regulations adopted pursuant to this ordinance. The town may apply any of the
definitions and procedures authorized by this article to any ordinance adopted
under the general police power of cities and counties, G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8
and G.S. Ch.153A, Art. 6, respectively, and may employ any organizational
structure, board, commission, or staffing arrangement authorized by this
article to any or all aspects of those ordinances. The provisions of this
article also apply to any other local ordinance that substantially affects land
use and development.
   (B)   The provisions of this article are supplemental to specific provisions
included in other articles of this ordinance. To the extent there is a conflict
between the provisions of this article and other articles, the more specific
provision shall control. This article does not expand, diminish, or alter the
scope of authority for development regulations authorized by this ordinance.
(G.S. § 160D-401) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02 PLANNING BOARD.
§ 2.02.01 CREATION.
   The Town Beach Planning Board is created under the authority of the G.S. §§
160D-301 et seq.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of seven members, who shall be
citizens and residents of the town. In considering the appointment of members
to the Planning Board, the Board of Aldermen shall avoid appointments which may
create the appearance of a conflict of interest or an incompatible position in
office holding.
   (B)   In addition to the seven members of the Planning Board, there shall be
two alternates. These alternates are appointed by the Board of Aldermen, and
should adhere to the same qualifications and term durations as members of the
Planning Board. These alternates shall be designated by the Board of Aldermen
as first and second alternates. The role of alternates is as follows.
      (1)   The alternates shall attend all Planning Board meetings and other
Planning Board functions.
      (2)   If a primary member of the Planning Board is absent from a meeting,
the first alternate shall, for the duration of the meeting, function as a
primary member of the Planning Board, with full voting responsibilities. If a
second primary member is absent, the second alternate shall, for the duration
of the meeting, function as a primary member of the Planning Board, with full
voting responsibilities.
      (3)   If all primary members of the Planning Board are in attendance at a
meeting, the alternate members may participate in discussions, questioning
presenters and the like, but are not voting members.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Planning Board must be a primary member, not an
alternate.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 6-6-2006; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed
7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   Members of the Planning Board and successors in office to the Planning Board
shall be appointed by the Board of Aldermen. Appointments of any non-Planning
Board member to any subcommittee or advisory committee of the Planning Board
must first be approved by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.04 TERMS.
   (A)   The initial Planning Board members, under this article, shall be
appointed in the following manner: three members shall be appointed for a one-
year term; two members shall be appointed for two-year terms and two members
shall be appointed for three-year terms. Thereafter, the successors shall be
appointed for terms of three years at the expiration of the initial terms in
order that members’ terms of office do not expire contemporaneously. Terms are
to expire on the May 15.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms prior
to May 1 of the third year, shall be filled by the Board of Aldermen as such
vacancies occur, for the period of the unexpired term. At the discretion of the
Board of Aldermen, a vacancy may exist on the Planning Board if a member is
absent from one-third or more of the Planning Board’s regularly scheduled
monthly meetings within a one-year period.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.05 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Board and any subcommittee thereof shall serve
as such without compensation.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.06 CHAIRPERSON.
   Within 30 days after appointment, the Planning Board shall meet and elect a
Chairperson from among the appointed members, and create and fill such offices
as it may determine. The term of office for the position of Chairperson shall
be for a period of one year, with eligibility for reelection. The Chairperson
shall be entitled to vote on all matters, as long as a conflict of interest
does not exist.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.07 MEETINGS.
   The Planning Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and
shall keep minutes which shall contain a record of its members’ attendance and
of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record
shall be a public record. The Planning Board shall hold at least one regular
meeting each month, which shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.08 VOTING AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   A quorum of the Planning Board shall consist of a majority of the Board
membership (excluding vacant seats). A quorum is necessary for the Board to
take official action.
(Ord. passed 3-5-1992; Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord.
passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.02.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301, it shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in
general, to:
   (A)   To prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the Board of Aldermen a comprehensive plan, and such other plans
as deemed appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection,
mapping, and analysis.
   (B)   To facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation in
the planning process.
   (C)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner.
   (D)   To advise the Board of Aldermen concerning the implementation of
plans, including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text and
map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604.
   (E)   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Aldermen may direct.
   (F)   To provide a preliminary forum for review of quasi-judicial decisions,
provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as a basis for
the deciding board.
   (G)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Aldermen may
direct.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
§ 2.03.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. The Board of Adjustment
consists of five regular members and up to four alternate members, each to be
appointed for a term of three years by the Board of Aldermen. Terms expire on
May 1.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment must adopt rules necessary to the conduct of
its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this ordinance. If any
provisions of the rules are inconsistent with this ordinance, than the
provision in the ordinance shall control.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance, the rules adopted by
the Board of Adjustment must at least provide for selection of the officers of
the Board of Adjustment, and procedures for the conduct of public hearings and
voting.
   (C)   The rules and minutes of the Board of Adjustment must be maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.03.02 DUTIES.
   The Board shall hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to
pass under any statute or development regulation adopted under this ordinance.
The Board shall comply with all of the procedures and the process applicable in
making quasi-judicial decisions for appeals and variances, as stipulated in §
1.17 and G.S. §§ 160D-102(28) and 160D-406.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.03.03 QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISIONS AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Process required. Boards shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in
determining appeals of administrative decisions, special use permits,
certificates of appropriateness, variances, or any other quasi-judicial
decision.
   (B)   Notice of hearings. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to G.S. Ch. 160D shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by the local development regulation. In the absence of
evidence to the contrary, the local government may rely on the county tax
listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The notice
must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not more than 25 days,
prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period, the local
government shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site that
is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without
further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given date and a
quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until
the next regular Board meeting without further advertisement.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The administrator or staff to the Board
shall transmit to the Board all applications, reports, and written materials
relevant to the matter being considered. The administrative materials may be
distributed to the members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same
time they are distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the appellant
or applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or
applicant. The administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing
record. The administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic
form. Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be
made before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be
made by the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the local government, and any
person who would have standing to appeal the decision under G.S. § 160D-1402(c)
shall have the right to participate as a party at the evidentiary hearing.
Other witnesses may present competent, material, and substantial evidence that
is not repetitive as allowed by the Board.
   (E)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board. The Board chair shall rule on
any objections, and the chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board.
These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
Objections based on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on
judicial review. Even if there is no objection before the Board, opinion
testimony from a lay witness shall not be considered competent evidence for
technical matters such as property value and traffic impacts.
   (F)   Appearance of official new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the local government, shall be present at the evidentiary
hearing as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to
matters stated in a notice of appeal. If any party or the local government
would be unduly prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the
notice of appeal, the Board shall continue the hearing.
   (G)   Oaths. The chair of the Board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
ordinance through the chair or, in the chair's absence, anyone acting as chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the local government, and any person
with standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) may make a written request to the chair
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be
relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The chair shall
rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas
made by the chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board. If a person
fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this subsection, the
Board or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court of
Justice for an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall
have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
   (I)   Appeals in nature of certiorari. When hearing an appeal pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-947(e) or any other appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing
shall be based on the record below, and the scope of review shall be as
provided in G.S. § 160D-1402(j).
   (J)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this subsection, vacant positions on
the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter under G.S. § 160D-109(d) shall not be considered members of the Board
for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates
available to take the place of such members.
   (K)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. Be aware that even if there is no objection
before the Board, opinion testimony from a lay witness shall not be considered
competent evidence for technical matters such as property value and traffic
impacts. When hearing an appeal, the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall make any order,
requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. The Board shall
have all the powers of the official who made the decision. Every quasi-judicial
decision shall be based upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in
the record. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be reduced to writing, reflect
the Board's determination of contested facts and their application to the
applicable standards, and be approved by the Board and signed by the chair or
other duly authorized member of the Board. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board or such
other office or official as the development regulation specifies. The decision
of the Board shall be delivered within a reasonable time by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or first-class mail to the applicant, landowner, and any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify
to the local government that proper notice has been made, and the certificate
shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (L)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. § 160D-1405(d).
(G.S. § 160D-406) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.03.04 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of a zoning regulation, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the
provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (B)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
   (C)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that
the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
   (D)   Any other development regulation that regulates land use or
development may provide for variances from the provisions of those ordinances
consistent with the provisions of this subsection.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.03.05 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by G.S. § 160D-1403.1, appeals of administrative
decisions made by the staff under this ordinance shall be made to the Board of
Adjustment unless a different board is provided or authorized otherwise by
statute or an ordinance adopted pursuant to this ordinance. If this function of
the Board of Adjustment is assigned to any other board pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
302(b), that board shall comply with all of the procedures and processes
applicable to a Board of Adjustment hearing appeals. Appeal of a decision made
pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation control regulation, a stormwater
control regulation, or a provision of the housing code shall not be made to the
Board of Adjustment unless required by the town ordinance or code provision.
   (B)   Standing. Any person who has standing under G.S. § 160D-1402(c) or the
local government may appeal an administrative decision to the board. An appeal
is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the Town Clerk. The notice of appeal
shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party has 30 days from receipt of
the written notice of the determination within which to file an appeal. Any
other person with standing to appeal has 30 days from receipt from any source
of actual or constructive notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-403(b) by first-class mail is deemed received on the third business
day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service.
   (D)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall transmit
to the Board all documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the
record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
   (E)   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the Board of Adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom, unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the Board after notice of appeal has been filed that,
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the development regulation. In
that case, enforcement proceedings are not stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15
days after such a request is filed.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, appeals of
decisions granting a development approval or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the development regulation does not
stay the further review of an application for development approvals to use the
property; in these situations, the appellant or local government may request
and the Board may grant a stay of a final decision of development approval
applications, including building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
   (G)   Alternative dispute resolution. The parties to an appeal that has been
made under this section may agree to mediation or other forms of alternative
dispute resolution. The development regulation may set standards and procedures
to facilitate and manage such voluntary alternative dispute resolution.
   (H)   No estoppel. G.S. § 160D-1403.2, limiting the town's use of the
defense of estoppel. Applies to proceedings under this section.
(G.S. § 160D-405) (Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-3-2013; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.04 OTHER ADVISORY BOARDS.
   The Board of Aldermen may by ordinance establish additional advisory boards
as deemed appropriate. The ordinance establishing such boards shall specify the
composition and duties of such boards.
(G.S. § 160D-306) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.05 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
   (A)   Authorization. The town may appoint administrators, inspectors,
enforcement officers, planners, technicians, and other staff to develop,
administer, and enforce development regulations authorized by this ordinance.
   (B)   Duties. Duties assigned to staff may include, but are not limited to,
drafting and implementing plans and development regulations to be adopted
pursuant to this ordinance; determining whether applications for development
approvals are complete; receiving and processing applications for development
approvals; providing notices of applications and hearings; making decisions and
determinations regarding development regulation implementation; determining
whether applications for development approvals meet applicable standards as
established by law and local ordinance; conducting inspections; issuing or
denying certificates of compliance or occupancy; enforcing development
regulations, including issuing notices of violation, orders to correct
violations, and recommending bringing judicial actions against actual or
threatened violations; keeping adequate records; and any other actions that may
be required in order adequately to enforce the laws and development regulations
under their jurisdiction. A development regulation may require that designated
staff members take an oath of office. The town shall have the authority to
enact ordinances, procedures, and fee schedules relating to the administration
and the enforcement of this ordinance. The administrative and enforcement
provisions related to building permits set forth in G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 11
shall be followed for those permits.
   (C)   The town may make alternative staff arrangements pursuant to G.S. §
160D-402(c).
   (D)   Financial support. The town shall fix reasonable fees for support,
administration, and implementation of programs authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, and
all such fees shall be used for no other purposes.
(G.S. § 160D-402) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.05.01 PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   The Planning Director is generally responsible for administration of this
unified development ordinance, and serves as the Zoning Administrator for the
town, except in cases where authority for the implementation of this ordinance
has been specifically delegated to another town official or body.
Administration and enforcement duties of the Planning Director shall include,
but not be limited to:
   (A)   Administration all provisions of this ordinance for which
administrative responsibilities are not otherwise expressly assigned.
   (B)   Interpretation of the provisions of this ordinance.
   (C)   Assigning all address numbers for properties and buildings.
   (D)   Maintaining address records of each property and building.
   (E)   Recommending change of existing addresses when necessary to facilitate
sequential building numbers along a road.
   (F)   Designating the address for individual units within multiple housing
units in conformity with this ordinance.
   (G)   Coordinating address system changes and adjustments with emergency
service organizations and the county GIS.
   (H)   Assisting the public in complying with the requirements of this
ordinance.
   (I)   Review all applications made pursuant to the requirements of this
ordinance to ensure compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
   (J)   Coordination of the reviews of other town staff in fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities under this ordinance.
   (K)   Preparation of reports to the Planning Board for all matters for which
this ordinance requires review and approval by the Planning Board.
   (L)   Record maintenance of the Planning Board's meetings and actions.
   (M)   Amendment of the text of this ordinance and the zoning map to reflect
any amendments approved by the Board of Aldermen and maintaining up-to-date
originals and copies of these documents.
   (N)   On-going regular reviews of the text of this ordinance and proposing
amendments deemed necessary to implement and ensure consistency with the policy
objectives of the town.
   (O)   Record maintenance of the Board of Adjustment's meetings and actions.
   (P)   Report on any variances or interpretations of the location of the
boundary of an area of special flood hazard to the Federal Insurance
Administration upon request; and
   (Q)   When in the opinion of the Town Manager, the Planning Director is
incapacitated or otherwise unavailable, the Town Manager will assume the above
duties.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.05.02 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is generally responsible for administration and
enforcement of the State Building Codes and for any portions of this unified
development ordinance that have been specifically delegated to him or her.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.05.03 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager shall designate an employee to hold the position of
Floodplain Administrator and implement the provisions of this ordinance related
to floodplains. Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator are
described in
Article 7, Flood Damage Prevention.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.06 SUMMARY PROCEDURES.
   The various types of approval required for the administration of this
ordinance, the review and decision-making bodies responsible for each type of
approval, the appeals bodies assigned to hear various types of appeals,
requirements for public hearings, and public notice required for various types
of approvals are summarized in Table 2-1, Summary Procedures, and are explained
in more detail in the remaining sections of this
Article 2. In the event of any inconsistency between Table 2-1, Summary
Procedures, and other provisions of this
Article 2, the other provisions shall govern.
Table 2.1 Summary Procedures
R = Review Body
D = Decision-Making Body
A = Appeals Body
H = Public Hearing Required
N = Newspaper Notice
M = Mailed Notice
P = Posted Notice
                 Review, Decision-Making and Appeals
Application Type Bodies                              Public Notice Required for
                 Staff PB ZBA BOA                    Hearing
Table 2.1 Summary Procedures
R = Review Body
D = Decision-Making Body
A = Appeals Body
H = Public Hearing Required
N = Newspaper Notice
M = Mailed Notice
P = Posted Notice
                                       Review, Decision-Making
                                       and Appeals Bodies      Public Notice
Application Type                                               Required for
                                       Staff PB ZBA BOA        Hearing

Zoning text amendment (§              R     R      D/H        N
2.07.01)
Zoning map amendment (§               R     R      D/H        N, M, P
2.07.02)
Planned Unit Developments (§          R     R      D/H        N, M, P
2.18)
Special use permit (§                 R     R      D/H        M, P
2.19)
Subdivision of land (§
2.20 and Art. 6)
Sketch plan                            R     D
Preliminary                            R     R      D/H        N, M, P
Final                                  R     R      D/H        N, M, P
Subdivision exceptions (G.S. § 160D-  D
802)
Special plat approval (§
2.21)
   Preliminary                      R     R      D/H        N, M, P
   Final                            R     R      D/H        N, M, P
Commercial plan review (§             R     R      D/H        N, M, P
2.22)
Flood permit (§                       D            A/H        N, M, P
2.13.02)
CAMA permit (§                        NCDCM permit authority
2.13.01)
Sign permit (§                        D        A/H            N
2.06.10)
Wireless telecommunications permit (§ R     R      D/H        N, M, P
4.03.17)
Wireless telecommunications            D
collocation
Statutory vested rights (§            Same as for application
2.11)
Zoning permit (§                      D        A/H
2.13.03)
Building permit (§                    D
2.13.04)
Variance (§                           R        D/H            M, P
2.03.04)
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.07 TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENT.
§ 2.07.01 PROCEDURE FOR ADOPTING, AMENDING, OR REPEALING THIS ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Hearing with published notice. Before adopting, amending, or repealing
any ordinance or development regulation authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, the Board
of Aldermen shall hold a legislative hearing. A notice of the hearing shall be
given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having
general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published the first time
not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the
hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is not to be included
but the day of the hearing shall be included.
   (B)   Notice to military bases. If the adoption or modification would result
in changes to the zoning map or would change or affect the permitted uses of
land located five miles or less from the perimeter boundary of a military base,
the local government shall provide written notice of the proposed changes by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the commander of the military base
not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date fixed for the
hearing. If the commander of the military base provides comments or analysis
regarding the compatibility of the proposed development regulation or amendment
with military operations at the base, the Board of Aldermen of the local
government shall take the comments and analysis into consideration before
making a final determination on the ordinance.
   (C)   Ordinance required. A development regulation adopted pursuant to this
ordinance shall be adopted by ordinance.
   (D)   Down-zoning. No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that
down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
local government. For purposes of this section, DOWN-ZONING means a zoning
ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage.
      (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
(G.S. § 160D-601) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.07.02 NOTICE OF HEARING ON PROPOSED ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Mailed notice. Subject to the limitations of this ordinance, an
ordinance shall provide for the manner in which zoning regulations and the
boundaries of zoning districts are to be determined, established, and enforced,
and from time to time amended, supplemented, or changed, in accordance with the
provisions of this ordinance. The owners of affected parcels of land and the
owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a
notice of the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail at
the last addresses listed for such owners on the county tax abstracts. For the
purpose of this section, properties are "abutting" even if separated by a
street, railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice must be
deposited in the mail at least ten but not more than 25 days prior to the date
of the hearing. If the zoning map amendment is being proposed in conjunction
with an expansion of municipal extraterritorial planning and development
regulation jurisdiction under G.S. § 160D-202, a single hearing on the zoning
map amendment and the boundary amendment may be held. In this instance, the
initial notice of the zoning map amendment hearing may be combined with the
boundary hearing notice and the combined hearing notice mailed at least 30 days
prior to the hearing.
   (B)   Optional notice for large-scale zoning map amendments. The first-class
mail notice required under paragraph (A) of this section is not required if the
zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of more than 50
properties, owned by at least 50 different property owners, and the local
government elects to use the expanded published notice provided for in this
subsection. In this instance, a local government may elect to make the mailed
notice provided for in paragraph (A) of this subsection or, as an alternative,
elect to publish notice of the hearing as required by G.S. § 160D-601, provided
that each advertisement shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in
size. The advertisement is effective only for property owners who reside in the
area of general circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice.
Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according
to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property, shall be notified according to the provisions of paragraph (A) of
this subsection.
   (C)   Posted notice. When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the local
government shall prominently post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed
for the amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The
notice shall be posted within the same time period specified for mailed notices
of the hearing. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map
amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required but the local
government shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to
interested persons.
   (D)   Citizen comments. Subject to the limitations of this ordinance, zoning
regulations may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified,
or repealed. If any resident or property owner in the local government submits
a written statement regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to
a zoning regulation, including a text or map amendment that has been properly
initiated as provided in G.S. § 160D-601, to the clerk to the Board at least
two business days prior to the proposed vote on such change, the clerk to the
Board shall deliver such written statement to the Board of Aldermen. If the
proposed change is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S. §
160D-705 or any other statute, the clerk shall provide only the names and
addresses of the individuals providing written comment, and the provision of
such names and addresses to all members of the Board shall not disqualify any
member of the Board from voting.
(G.S. § 160D-603)
   (E)   Planning Board review and comment.
      (1)   Initial zoning. In order to exercise zoning powers conferred by
this ordinance for the first time, a local government shall create or designate
a Planning Board under the provisions of this article or of a special act of
the General Assembly. The Planning Board shall prepare or shall review and
comment upon a proposed zoning regulation, including the full text of such
regulation and maps showing proposed district boundaries. The Planning Board
may hold public meetings and legislative hearings in the course of preparing
the regulation. Upon completion, the Planning Board shall make a written
recommendation regarding adoption of the regulation to the Board of Aldermen.
The Board of Aldermen shall not hold its required hearing or take action until
it has received a recommendation regarding the regulation from the Planning
Board. Following its required hearing, the Board of Aldermen may refer the
regulation back to the Planning Board for any further recommendations that the
Board may wish to make prior to final action by the Board of Aldermen in
adopting, modifying and adopting, or rejecting the regulation.
      (2)   Zoning amendments. Subsequent to initial adoption of a zoning
regulation, all proposed amendments to the zoning regulation or zoning map
shall be submitted to the Planning Board for review and comment. If no written
report is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of referral of the
amendment to that board, the Board of Aldermen may act on the amendment without
the Planning Board report. The Board of Aldermen is not bound by the
recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
      (3)   Review of other ordinances and actions. Any development regulation
other than a zoning regulation that that is proposed to be adopted pursuant to
this ordinance may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment.
Any development regulation other than a zoning regulation may provide that
future proposed amendments of that ordinance be submitted to the Planning Board
for review and comment. Any other action proposed to be taken pursuant to this
ordinance may be referred to the Planning Board for review and comment.
      (4)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text
or map amendments pursuant to this section, the Planning Board shall advise and
comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with any comprehensive
plan that has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is
applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the
Board of Aldermen that addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of
Aldermen. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale rezoning” under
G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Planning Board statement describing plan consistency
may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in
the relevant adopted plans were considered in the recommendation made.
      (5)   Separate board required. Notwithstanding the authority to assign
duties of the Planning Board to the Board of Aldermen as provided by this
ordinance, the review and comment required by this section shall not be
assigned to the Board of Aldermen and must be performed by a separate board.
(G.S. § 160D-604)
   (F)   The applicant and landowner must provide written consent to conditions
related to a conditional zoning approval to ensure enforceability. (S.L. 2019-
111 Pt. 1)
(G.S. § 160D-602) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.07.03 GOVERNING BOARD STATEMENT.
   (A)   Plan consistency. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map
amendment, the Board of Aldermen shall approve a brief statement describing
whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted comprehensive
plan. The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also be met by a
clear indication in the minutes of the Board of Aldermen that at the time of
action on the amendment the Board of Aldermen was aware of and considered the
Planning Board's recommendations and any relevant portions of an adopted
comprehensive plan. If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was
deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the
effect of also amending any future land-use map in the approved plan, and no
additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. For a
future land use map that is deemed amended, if it is a CAMA plan, then such
amendment is not effective until it goes through the CAMA plan-amendment
process. (G.S. § 160D-501.) A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be
considered concurrently. The plan consistency statement is not subject to
judicial review. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Board of Aldermen statement describing
plan consistency may address the overall rezoning and describe how the analysis
and policies in the relevant adopted plans were considered in the action taken.
   (B)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the Board of
Aldermen. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other factors,
(i) the size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the area proposed to
be rezoned; (ii) the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors,
and the surrounding community; (iii) the relationship between the current
actual and permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and the
development that would be permissible under the proposed amendment; (iv) why
the action taken is in the public interest; and (v) any changed conditions
warranting the amendment. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a “large-scale
rezoning” under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Board of Aldermen statement on
reasonableness may address the overall rezoning.
   (C)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and the
plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a single
statement.
   (D)   Voting. A simple majority on the first reading permits adoption of a
legislative decision for development regulation. (G.S. § 160A-75, S.L. 2019-111
Sec. 2.5 (n)).
(G.S. § 160D-605) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.08 COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The town may from time to time establish regulations or guidelines related
to the following topics, and such regulations or guidelines shall govern all
applications under this unified development ordinance after their adoption:
   (A)   Application contents;
   (B)   Application review procedures and schedules;
   (C)   Application and review fees;
   (D)   Pre-application conference requirements; and
   (E)   Determinations of application completeness.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.09 SIMULTANEOUS PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS.
   Whenever two or more forms of review and approval are required under this
ordinance, the applications for those permits or approvals may, at the option
of the Planning Director, be processed simultaneously, so long as all
applicable state and local requirements are satisfied.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.10 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   General. When a review body or the Planning Director approves a
development application, such body or the Planning Director may impose
restrictions or conditions on the approval. The conditions may be imposed to:
      (1)   Ensure compliance with the general goals and policies of this
ordinance or with particular standards of this ordinance;
      (2)   Prevent or minimize adverse effects from the proposed development
on surrounding lands;
      (3)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of workers and residents of
the community; or
      (4)   Protect the value, use and enjoyment of property in the general
neighborhood.
   (B)   Limitations. The restrictions and conditions imposed must be related
in both type and amount to the impact that the proposed development would have
on the public and surrounding development. All conditions imposed shall be
expressly set forth in the permit approval.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.11 STATUTORY VESTED RIGHTS AND PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   Findings. The General Assembly recognizes that local government
approval of development typically follows significant investment in site
evaluation, planning, development costs, consultant fees, and related expenses.
The General Assembly finds that it is necessary and desirable to provide for
the establishment of certain vested rights in order to ensure reasonable
certainty, stability, and fairness in the development regulation process, to
secure the reasonable expectations of landowners, and to foster cooperation
between the public and private sectors in land-use planning and development
regulation. The provisions of this section and G.S. § 160D-108.1 strike an
appropriate balance between private expectations and the public interest.
   (B)   Permit choice. If a land development regulation is amended between the
time a development permit application was submitted and a development permit
decision is made or if a land development regulation is amended after a
development permit decision has been challenged and found to be wrongfully
denied or illegal, G.S. § 143-755 applies.
   (C)   Vested rights. Amendments in land development regulations are not
applicable or enforceable without the written consent of the owner with regard
to any of the following:
      (1)   Buildings or uses of buildings or land for which a development
permit application has been submitted and subsequently issued in accordance
with G.S. § 143-755.
      (2)   Subdivisions of land for which a development permit application
authorizing the subdivision has been submitted and subsequently issued in
accordance with G.S. § 143-755.
      (3)   A site-specific vesting plan pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.1.
      (4)   A multi-phased development pursuant to paragraph (F) of this
section.
      (5)   A vested right established by the terms of a development agreement
authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10. The establishment of a vested right under
any subdivision of this section does not preclude vesting under one or more
other subdivisions of this section or vesting by application of common law
principles. A vested right, once established as provided for in this section or
by common law, precludes any action by the town that would change, alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the
property allowed by the applicable land development regulation or regulations,
except where a change in state or federal law mandating local government
enforcement occurs after the development application is submitted that has a
fundamental and retroactive effect on the development or use.
   (D)   Duration of vesting.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a development permit, the statutory vesting
granted by paragraph (C) of this section for a development project is effective
upon filing of the application in accordance with G.S. § 143-755, for so long
as the permit remains valid pursuant to law. Unless otherwise specified by this
section or other statute, local development permits expire one year after
issuance unless work authorized by the permit has substantially commenced. A
local land development regulation may provide for a longer permit expiration
period. For the purposes of this section, a permit is issued either in the
ordinary course of business of the applicable governmental agency or by the
applicable governmental agency as a court directive.
      (2)   Except where a longer vesting period is provided by statute or land
development regulation, the statutory vesting granted by this section, once
established, expires for an uncompleted development project if development work
is intentionally and voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24
consecutive months, and the statutory vesting period granted by this section
for a nonconforming use of property expires if the use is intentionally and
voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months.
The 24-month discontinuance period is automatically tolled during the pendency
of any board of adjustment proceeding or civil action in a state or federal
trial or appellate court regarding the validity of a development permit, the
use of the property, or the existence of the statutory vesting period granted
by this section. The 24-month discontinuance period is also tolled during the
pendency of any litigation involving the development project or property that
is the subject of the vesting.
   (E)   Multiple permits for development project. Subject to paragraph (D) of
this section, where multiple applicants may choose the version of each of the
local land development regulations applicable to the project upon submittal of
the application for the initial development permit. This provision is
applicable only for those subsequent development permit applications filed
within 18 months of the date following the approval of an initial permit. For
purposes of the vesting protections of this section, an erosion and
sedimentation control permit or a sign permit is not an initial development
permit.
   (F)   Multi-phased development. A multi-phased development is vested for the
entire development with the land development regulations then in place at the
time a site plan approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased
development. A right which has been vested as provided for in this section
remains vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval
is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
   (G)   Continuing review. Following issuance of a development permit, the
town may make subsequent inspections and reviews to ensure compliance with the
applicable land development regulations in effect at the time of the original
approval.
   (H)   Process to claim vested right. A person claiming a statutory or common
law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to the
Zoning Administrator or other officer designated by a land development
regulation, who shall make an initial determination as to the existence of the
vested right. The decision of the Zoning Administrator or officer may be
appealed under G.S. § 160D-405. On appeal, the existence of a vested right
shall be reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination or pursuing
an appeal under G.S. § 160D-405, a person claiming a vested right may bring an
original civil action as provided by G.S. § 160D-1403.1.
   (I)   Miscellaneous provisions. The vested rights granted by this section
run with the land except for the use of land for outdoor advertising governed
by G.S. §§ 136-136.1 and 136-131.2 in which case the rights granted by this
section run with the owner of the permit issued by the North Carolina
Department of Transportation. Nothing in this section precludes judicial
determination, based on common law principles or other statutory provisions,
that a vested right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking
has occurred. Except as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this
section shall be construed to alter the existing common law.
   (J)   As used in this section, the following definitions apply:
      (1)   DEVELOPMENT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(1).
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(2).
      (3)   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(3).
      (4)   MULTI-PHASED DEVELOPMENT. A development containing 25 acres or more
that is both of the following:
         (a)   Submitted for development permit approval to occur in more than
one phase.
         (b)   Subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.12 VESTED RIGHTS - SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLANS.
   (A)   Site-specific vesting plan. A site-specific vesting plan consists of a
plan submitted to the town in which the applicant requests vesting pursuant to
this section, describing with reasonable certainty on the plan the type and
intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of property. The plan may be
in the form of, but not be limited to, any of the following plans or approvals:
a planned unit development plan, a subdivision plat, a preliminary or general
development plan, a special use permit, a conditional district zoning plan, or
any other land-use approval designation as may be utilized by the town. Unless
otherwise expressly provided by the local government, the plan shall include
the approximate boundaries of the site; significant topographical and other
natural features affecting development of the site; the approximate location on
the site of the proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements; the
approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed buildings and other
structures; and the approximate location of all existing and proposed
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian
walkways. What constitutes a site-specific vesting plan under this section that
would trigger a vested right shall be finally determined by the local
government pursuant to a development regulation, and the document that triggers
the vesting shall be so identified at the time of its approval. A variance does
not constitute a site-specific vesting plan, and approval of a site-specific
vesting plan with the condition that a variance be obtained does not confer a
vested right unless and until the necessary variance is obtained. If a sketch
plan or other document fails to describe with reasonable certainty the type and
intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property, it may not
constitute a site-specific vesting plan.
   (B)   Establishment of vested right. A vested right is established with
respect to any property upon the valid approval, or conditional approval, of a
site-specific vesting plan as provided in this section. Such a vested right
confers upon the landowner the right to undertake and complete the development
and use of the property under the terms and conditions of the site-specific
vesting plan, including any amendments thereto.
   (C)   Approval and amendment of plans. If a site-specific vesting plan is
based on an approval required by a local development regulation, the local
government shall provide whatever notice and hearing is required for that
underlying approval. A duration of the underlying approval that is less than
two years does not affect the duration of the site-specific vesting plan
established under this section. If the site-specific vesting plan is not based
on such an approval, a legislative hearing with notice as required by G.S. §
160D-602 shall be held.
   (D)   A local government may approve a site-specific vesting plan upon any
terms and conditions that may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. Conditional approval results in a vested right,
although failure to abide by the terms and conditions of the approval will
result in a forfeiture of vested rights. A local government shall not require a
landowner to waive the landowner's vested rights as a condition of
developmental approval. A site-specific vesting plan is deemed approved upon
the effective date of the local government's decision approving the plan or
another date determined by the Board of Aldermen upon approval. An approved
site-specific vesting plan and its conditions may be amended with the approval
of the owner and the local government as follows: any substantial modification
must be reviewed and approved in the same manner as the original approval;
minor modifications may be approved by staff if such are defined and authorized
by local regulation.
   (E)   Continuing review. Following approval or conditional approval of a
site-specific vesting plan, the town may make subsequent reviews and require
subsequent approvals by the local government to ensure compliance with the
terms and conditions of the original approval, provided that these reviews and
approvals are not inconsistent with the original approval. The local government
may, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(f), revoke the original approval for failure
to comply with applicable terms and conditions of the original approval or the
applicable local development regulations.
   (F)   Duration and termination of vested right.
      (1)   A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan remains vested for
a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the
local government.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (F)(1) of this
section, the town may provide for rights to be vested for a period exceeding
two years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size and phasing of
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations. These determinations are
in the sound discretion of the local government and shall be made following the
process specified for the particular form of a site-specific vesting plan
involved in accordance with paragraph (A) of this section.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the provisions of G.S. §§ 160D-
1111 and 160D-1115 apply, except that a permit does not expire and shall not be
revoked because of the running of time while a vested right under this section
is outstanding.
      (4)   A right vested as provided in this section terminates at the end of
the applicable vesting period with respect to buildings and uses for which no
valid building permit applications have been filed.
   (G)   Subsequent changes prohibited; exceptions.
      (1)   A vested right, once established as provided for in this section,
precludes any zoning action by the town which would change, alter, impair,
prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the property as
set forth in an approved site-specific vesting plan, except under one or more
of the following conditions:
         (a)   With the written consent of the affected landowner.
         (b)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of
the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the site-
specific vesting plan.
         (c)   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation
for all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including,
but not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consulting fees incurred
after approval by the local government, together with interest as provided
under G.S. § 160D-106. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the
value of the property which is caused by the action.
         (d)   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary
hearing, that the landowner or the landowner's representative intentionally
supplied inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a
difference in the approval by the local government of the site-specific vesting
plan or the phased development plan.
         (e)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
vesting plan or the phased development plan, in which case the local government
may modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or
federal law has a fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and
an evidentiary hearing.
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right under this section does not
preclude the application of overlay zoning or other development regulations
which impose additional requirements but do not affect the allowable type or
intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations which are general in nature and
are applicable to all property subject to development regulation by a local
government, including, but not limited to, building, fire, plumbing,
electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new regulations become
effective with respect to property which is subject to a site-specific vesting
plan upon the expiration or termination of the vesting rights period provided
for in this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right does not preclude, change, or impair the authority of the town
to adopt and enforce development regulations governing nonconforming situations
or uses.
   (H)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   A vested right obtained under this section is not a personal right,
but attaches to and runs with the applicable property. After approval of a
site-specific vesting plan, all successors to the original landowner are
entitled to exercise these rights.
      (2)   Nothing in this section precludes judicial determination, based on
common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested right exists
in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred. Except as
expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be construed
to alter the existing common law.
      (3)   In the event the town fails to adopt a development regulation
setting forth what constitutes a site-specific vesting plan triggering a vested
right, a landowner may establish a vested right with respect to property upon
the approval of a zoning permit, or otherwise may seek appropriate relief from
the Superior Court Division of the General Court of Justice.
(G.S. § 160D-108.1) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
§ 2.13.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The General Assembly finds the following:
      (1)   Development projects often occur in multiple phases over several
years, requiring a long-term commitment of both public and private resources.
      (2)   Such developments often create community impacts and opportunities
that are difficult to accommodate within traditional zoning processes.
      (3)   Because of their scale and duration, such projects often require
careful coordination of public capital facilities planning, financing, and
construction schedules and phasing of the private development.
      (4)   Such projects involve substantial commitments of private capital,
which developers are usually unwilling to risk without sufficient assurances
that development standards will remain stable through the extended period of
the development.
      (5)   Such developments often permit communities and developers to
experiment with different or nontraditional types of development concepts and
standards, while still managing impacts on the surrounding areas.
      (6)   To better structure and manage development approvals for such
developments and ensure their proper integration into local capital facilities
programs, local governments need flexibility to negotiate such developments.
   (B)   Local governments may enter into development agreements with
developers, subject to the procedures of this article. In entering into such
agreements, a local government may not exercise any authority or make any
commitment not authorized by general or local act and may not impose any tax or
fee not authorized by otherwise applicable law.
   (C)   This article is supplemental to the powers conferred upon local
governments and does not preclude or supersede rights and obligations
established pursuant to other law regarding development approvals, site-
specific vesting plans, or other provisions of law. A development agreement
shall not exempt the property owner or developer from compliance with the State
Building Code or state or local housing codes that are not part of the local
government's development regulations. When the Board of Aldermen approves the
rezoning of any property associated with a development agreement executed and
recorded pursuant to this article, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-605(a) apply.
   (D)   Development authorized by a development agreement shall comply with
all applicable laws, including all ordinances, resolutions, regulations,
permits, policies, and laws affecting the development of property, including
laws governing permitted uses of the property, density, intensity, design, and
improvements.
(G.S. § 160D-1001) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this article:
   DEVELOPMENT. The planning for or carrying out of a building activity, the
making of a material change in the use or appearance of any structure or
property, or the dividing of land into two or more parcels. When appropriate to
the context, DEVELOPMENT refers to the planning for or the act of developing or
to the result of development. Reference to a specific operation is not intended
to mean that the operation or activity, when part of other operations or
activities, is not development. Reference to particular operations is not
intended to limit the generality of this item.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Major capital improvements, including, but not limited
to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water,
educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
(G.S. § 160D-1002) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.03 APPROVAL OF GOVERNING BOARD REQUIRED.
   (A)   A local government may establish procedures and requirements, as
provided in this article, to consider and enter into development agreements
with developers. A development agreement must be approved by the Board of
Aldermen of a local government following the procedures specified in G.S. §
160D-1005.
   (B)   The development agreement may, by ordinance, be incorporated, in whole
or in part, into any development regulation adopted by the local government. A
development agreement may be considered concurrently with a zoning map or text
amendment affecting the property and development subject to the development
agreement. A development agreement may be concurrently considered with and
incorporated by reference with a sketch plan or preliminary plat required under
a subdivision regulation or a site plan or other development approval required
under a zoning regulation. incorporated into a conditional district, the
provisions of the development agreement shall be treated as a development
regulation in the event of the developer's bankruptcy.
(G.S. § 160D-1003) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.04 SIZE AND DURATION.
   A local government may enter into a development agreement with a developer
for the development of property as provided in this article for developable
property of any size. Development agreements shall be of a reasonable term
specified in the agreement.
(G.S. § 160D-1004) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.05 HEARING.
   Before entering into a development agreement, a local government shall
conduct a legislative hearing on the proposed agreement. The notice provisions
of G.S.§ 160D-602 applicable to zoning map amendments shall be followed for
this hearing. The notice for the hearing must specify the location of the
property subject to the development agreement, the development uses proposed on
the property, and must specify a place where a copy of the proposed development
agreement can be obtained.
(G.S. § 160D-1005) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.06 CONTENT AND MODIFICATION.
   (A)   A development agreement shall, at a minimum, include all of the
following:
      (1)   A description of the property subject to the agreement and the
names of its legal and equitable property owners.
      (2)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties are not
precluded from entering into subsequent development agreements that may extend
the original duration period.
      (3)   The development uses permitted on the property, including
population densities and building types, intensities, placement on the site,
and design.
      (4)   A description of public facilities that will serve the development,
including who provides the facilities, the date any new public facilities, if
needed, will be constructed, and a schedule to assure public facilities are
available concurrent with the impacts of the development. In the event that the
development agreement provides that the local government shall provide certain
public facilities, the development agreement shall provide that the delivery
date of such public facilities will be tied to successful performance by the
developer in implementing the proposed development, such as meeting defined
completion percentages or other performance standards.
      (5)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or dedication
of land for public purposes and any provisions agreed to by the developer that
exceed existing laws related to protection of environmentally sensitive
property.
      (6)   A description, where appropriate, of any conditions, terms,
restrictions, or other requirements for the protection of public health,
safety, or welfare.
      (7)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures.
   (B)   A development agreement may also provide that the entire development
or any phase of it be commenced or completed within a specified period of time.
If required by ordinance or in the agreement, the development agreement shall
provide a development schedule, including commencement dates and interim
completion dates at no greater than five-year intervals; provided, however, the
failure to meet a commencement or completion date does not, in and of itself,
constitute a material breach of the development agreement pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1008 but must be judged based upon the totality of the circumstances. The
developer may request a modification in the dates as set forth in the
agreement.
   (C)   If more than one local government is made party to an agreement, the
agreement must specify which local government is responsible for the overall
administration of the development agreement. A local or regional utility
authority may also be made a party to the development agreement.
   (D)   The development agreement also may cover any other matter, including
defined performance standards, not inconsistent with this ordinance. The
development agreement may include mutually acceptable terms regarding provision
of public facilities and other amenities and the allocation of financial
responsibility for their provision, provided any impact mitigation measures
offered by the developer beyond those that could be required by the local
government shall be expressly enumerated within the agreement, and provided the
agreement may not include a tax or impact fee not otherwise authorized by law.
   (E)   Consideration of a proposed major modification of the agreement shall
follow the same procedures as required for initial approval of a development
agreement. What changes constitute a major modification may be determined by
ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1003 or as provided for in the
development agreement.
   (F)   Any performance guarantees under the development agreement shall
comply with G.S. § 160D-804.1.
(G.S. § 160D-1006) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.07 VESTING.
   (A)   Unless the development agreement specifically provides for the
application of subsequently enacted laws, the laws applicable to development of
the property subject to a development agreement are those in force at the time
of execution of the agreement.
   (B)   Except for grounds specified in G.S. § 160D-108(c) or G.S. § 160D-
108.1(f), a local government may not apply subsequently adopted ordinances or
development policies to a development that is subject to a development
agreement.
   (C)   In the event state or federal law is changed after a development
agreement has been entered into and the change prevents or precludes compliance
with one or more provisions of the development agreement, the local government
may modify the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or
federal law has a fundamental effect on the development agreement.
   (D)   This section does not abrogate any vested rights otherwise preserved
by law.
(G.S. § 160D-1007) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.08 BREACH AND CURE.
   (A)   Procedures established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1003 may include a
provision requiring periodic review by the Zoning Administrator or other
appropriate officer of the local government, at which time the developer shall
demonstrate good-faith compliance with the terms of the development agreement.
   (B)   If the local government finds and determines that the developer has
committed a material breach of the agreement, the local government shall notify
the developer in writing setting forth with reasonable particularity the nature
of the breach and the evidence supporting the finding and determination and
providing the developer a reasonable time in which to cure the material breach.
   (C)   If the developer fails to cure the material breach within the time
given, then the local government unilaterally may terminate or modify the
development agreement, provided the notice of termination or modification may
be appealed to the Board of Adjustment in the manner provided by G.S.§ 160D-
405.
   (D)   An ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1003 or the development
agreement may specify other penalties for breach in lieu of termination,
including, but not limited to, penalties allowed for violation of a development
regulation. Nothing in this article shall be construed to abrogate or impair
the power of the local government to enforce applicable law.
   (E)   A development agreement shall be enforceable by any party to the
agreement notwithstanding any changes in the development regulations made
subsequent to the effective date of the development agreement. Any party to the
agreement may file an action for injunctive relief to enforce the terms of a
development agreement.
(G.S. § 160D-1008) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.09 AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION.
   Subject to the provisions of G.S. § 160D-1006(e), a development agreement
may be amended or terminated by mutual consent of the parties.
(G.S. § 160D-1009) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.10 CHANGE OF JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this article, any development
agreement entered into by a local government before the effective date of a
change of jurisdiction shall be valid for the duration of the agreement or
eight years from the effective date of the change in jurisdiction, whichever is
earlier. The parties to the development agreement and the local government
assuming jurisdiction have the same rights and obligations with respect to each
other regarding matters addressed in the development agreement as if the
property had remained in the previous jurisdiction.
   (B)   A local government assuming jurisdiction may modify or suspend the
provisions of the development agreement if the local government determines that
the failure of the local government to do so would place the residents of the
territory subject to the development agreement or the residents of the local
government, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or safety, or
both.
(G.S. § 160D-1010) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.11 RECORDATION.
   The developer shall record the agreement with the register of deeds in the
county where the property is located within 14 days after the local government
and developer execute an approved development agreement. No development
approvals may be issued until the development agreement has been recorded. The
burdens of the development agreement are binding upon, and the benefits of the
agreement shall inure to, all successors in interest to the parties to the
agreement.
(G.S. § 160D-1011) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.13.12 APPLICABILITY OF PROCEDURES TO APPROVE DEBT.
   In the event that any of the obligations of the local government in the
development agreement constitute debt, the local government shall comply, at
the time of the obligation to incur the debt and before the debt becomes
enforceable against the local government, with any applicable constitutional
and statutory procedures for the approval of this debt.
(G.S. 160D-1012) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.14 REQUIRED DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
§ 2.14.01 CAMA PERMIT.
   No development regulated by North Carolina CAMA regulations shall occur,
unless the CAMA permitting officer shall first issue a CAMA permit.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.14.02 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No development shall occur in special flood hazard areas, as defined in
Article 7, Flood Damage Prevention, unless the Floodplain Administrator shall
first issue a floodplain development permit pursuant to §
7.04(B), or unless a variance has been approved pursuant to §
7.04(E).
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.14.03 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Zoning permit required.
      (1)   A valid zoning permit shall be presented with any application for a
building permit.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any activity in a zoned area
until such zoning permit is approved.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the
construction of any building or other structure including accessory structures
or to commence the moving, alteration or repair of any structure or the use of
any land or building including accessory structures, until the Zoning
Administrator has issued a zoning permit for such work or use including a
statement that the plans, specifications and intended use of such land, or
structure, in all respects conforms with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator may withhold a zoning permit for lots or
structures that do not meet minimum requirements.
      (5)   Application for a zoning permit shall be made in writing to the
Zoning Administrator on forms provided for that purpose.
      (6)   Zoning permits shall be void after six months from date of issue
unless substantial progress on the project has been made by that time.
   (B)   Approval of plans. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator
to approve any plans or issue a zoning permit for any purpose regulated by this
ordinance until he or she has inspected such plans in detail and found them in
conformity with this ordinance. To this end, the Zoning Administrator may
require that every application for a zoning permit be accompanied by a plan or
plat drawn to scale and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable
the Zoning Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed activity is in
conformance with this ordinance.
      (1)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot.
      (2)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures
to be erected, altered or moved and of any building or other structures already
on the lot.
      (3)   The existing and intended use of all such buildings or other
structures.
      (4)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may
be essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being
observed.
   (C)   Issuance of zoning permits.
      (1)   If the proposed activity as set forth in the application is in
conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator
shall issue a zoning permit.
      (2)   If any application for a zoning permit is not approved, the Zoning
Administrator shall state in writing on the application the cause for such
disapproval.
      (3)   Issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving any
provision of this or any other ordinance or regulation.
   (D)   Zoning compliance and certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition
or enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Zoning Administrator has issued a certificate of compliance and the Building
Inspector has issued a certificate of occupancy. The change of occupancy
provision shall not apply to rooms intended for transient rental.
      (2)   Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner
or his or her agent at the same time as submitting an application for a
building permit, if needed, or for a zoning permit. Upon approval of a
certificate of zoning compliance, the certificate of compliance shall be issued
if the Building Inspector after all final inspections have been made provided
he or she finds compliance.
      (3)   In the case of existing buildings or other uses not requiring a
building permit, after supplying the information and data necessary to
determine compliance with this ordinance and appropriate regulatory codes of
the town for the occupancy intended, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
certificate of compliance when, after examination and inspection, it is found
that the building or use in all respects conforms to the provisions of this
ordinance and appropriate regulatory codes of the town for the occupancy
intended.
      (4)   No certificate of compliance shall be issued until address numbers
are properly displayed.
   (E)   Other permits. The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to issue
other permits as required by this ordinance or the Board of Aldermen.
   (F)   Incomplete applications. The Planning Director may refuse to process
any application that the Planning Director determines to be incomplete unless
and until the applicant has submitted any missing information or materials. If
the Planning Director determines that an application is incomplete, he or she
shall notify the applicant of the specific missing information or materials.
   (G)   Pre-application conference.
      (1)   Before submitting an application for development approval, it is
recommended that each applicant schedule a pre-application conference with the
Planning Director or designee to discuss the procedures, standards and
regulations required for development approval in accordance with of this
ordinance; and
      (2)   A mandatory pre-application conference with the Planning Director
or designee shall be required for the following development reviews:
         (a)   CAMA land use plan amendment;
         (b)   Special use permits;
         (c)   Zoning map change; and
         (d)   Conservation subdivision (after preparation of site analysis
map).
   (H)   A mandatory pre-application conference with the Public Works Director
or designee shall be required for the following development reviews:
      (1)   Traffic impact analysis; and
      (2)   Traffic impact analysis major special use permit.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021) Penalty, see §
10.06
§ 2.14.04 BUILDING PERMIT. 
   (A)   Before the erection, construction or alteration of any building or
structure, or part of the same, there shall be submitted to the Building
Inspector by the owner or authorized agent, an application for a building
permit on appropriate blanks to be furnished by the town.
   (B)   Each application for a building permit shall be accompanied by all
other required permits. No building permit shall be issued until an official
building number has been assigned for a lot. If it shall appear to the Building
Inspector that the provisions of this article and all requirements of fees have
been paid, if any, he or she will then issue the building permit.
   (C)   All plans, permit applications and supporting documentation submitted
to the Building Inspector shall be maintained by the town in perpetuity.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.15 ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS AND DETERMINATIONS. 
   (A)   Development approvals. To the extent consistent with the scope of
regulatory authority granted by G.S. Ch. 160D, no person shall commence or
proceed with development without first securing any required development
approval from the town. A development approval shall be in writing and may
contain a provision requiring that the development comply with all applicable
state and local laws. The town may issue development approvals in print or
electronic form. Any development approval issued exclusively in electronic form
shall be protected from further editing once issued. Applications for
development approvals may be made by the landowner, a lessee or person holding
an option or contract to purchase or lease land, or an authorized agent of the
landowner. An easement holder may also apply for development approval for such
development as is authorized by the easement.
   (B)   Determinations and notice of determinations. The development
regulation enacted under the authority of G.S. Ch. 160D designates the Planning
Director with making determinations under the development regulation.
      (1)   The officer making the determination shall give written notice to
the owner of the property that is the subject of the determination and to the
party who sought the determination, if different from the owner. The written
notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-
class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the last address listed for the
owner of the affected property on the county tax abstract and to the address
provided in the application or request for a determination if the party seeking
the determination is different from the owner.
      (2)   It is conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the determination from the date a sign
providing notice that a determination has been made is prominently posted on
the property that is the subject of the determination, provided the sign
remains on the property for at least ten days. The sign shall contain the words
"Zoning Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" or similar language for other
determinations in letters at least six inches high and shall identify the means
to contact the town staff member for information about the determination.
      (3)   Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice. Any
such posting is the responsibility of the landowner, applicant, or person who
sought the determination. Verification of the posting shall be provided to the
staff member responsible for the determination. Absent an ordinance provision
to the contrary, posting of signs shall not be required.
   (C)   Duration of development approval. Unless a different period is
specified by this ordinance or other specific applicable law, including for a
development agreement, a development approval issued pursuant to this ordinance
expires one year after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the
development approval has not been substantially commenced. Local development
regulations may provide for development approvals of shorter duration for
temporary land uses, special events, temporary signs, and similar development.
Local development regulations may also provide for development approvals of
longer duration for specified types of development approvals. Nothing in this
section limits any vested rights secured under G.S. §§ 160D-108 or 160D-108.1.
   (D)   Changes. After a development approval has been issued, no deviations
from the terms of the application or the development approval shall be made
until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been obtained. A
local government may define by ordinance minor modifications to development
approvals that can be exempted or administratively approved. The local
government shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval in the review and approval of
any major modification of that approval.
   (E)   Inspections. Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant
to a development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance
with applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In
exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the
jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable hours for the purposes
of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been given for
inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (F)   Revocation of development approvals. In addition to initiation of
enforcement actions under G.S. § 160D-404, development approvals may be revoked
by the local government issuing the development approval by notifying the
holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation. The local government
shall follow the same development review and approval process required for
issuance of the development approval, including any required notice or hearing,
in the review and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development
approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable local development regulation or any state
law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
approval. Any development approval mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked. The revocation of a
development approval by a staff member may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
405. If an appeal is filed regarding a development regulation adopted by a
local government pursuant to this ordinance, the provisions of G.S. § 160D-405
(e) regarding stays apply.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy. A local government may, upon completion of
work or activity undertaken pursuant to a development approval, make final
inspections and issue a certificate of compliance or occupancy if staff finds
that the completed work complies with all applicable state and local laws and
with the terms of the approval. No building, structure, or use of land that is
subject to a building permit required by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 11 shall be
occupied or used until a certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1114 has been issued.
(G.S. § 160D-403) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.16 LAPSE OF APPROVAL.
   Lapse of approval (“expiration”) shall occur as provided by this ordinance
for the various types of development applications. If no provision for lapse is
given by this ordinance for a particular type of development permit or
approval, and if no lapse period is imposed as part of an approval by the
decision-making body, lapse shall occur if development is not commenced or a
subsequent permit is not obtained within one year.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.17 ENFORCEMENT.
§ 2.17.01 NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   When staff determines work or activity has been undertaken in violation of a
development regulation adopted pursuant to this ordinance or other local
development regulation or any state law delegated to the local government for
enforcement purposes in lieu of the state or in violation of the terms of a
development approval, a written notice of violation may be issued. The notice
of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval and
to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder
of the development approval, by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or
first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the
property or the person undertaking the work or activity. The notice of
violation may be posted on the property. The person providing the notice of
violation shall certify to the local government that the notice was provided,
and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except
as provided by G.S. §§ 160D-1123 or 160D-1206 or otherwise provided by law, a
notice of violation may be appealed to the board of adjustment pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-405.
(G.S. § 160D-404(a)) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.17.02 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation pursuant to this
ordinance or other applicable local development regulation or any state law
delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state
is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or local law, or in a
manner that endangers life or property, staff may order the specific part of
the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a hazard to be
immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing, directed to the person
doing the work or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be
stopped, the reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work or
activity may be resumed. A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder
of the development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that
person is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail. The person or persons delivering the
stop work order shall certify to the local government that the order was
delivered and that certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud. Except as provided by G.S. §§ 160D-1112 and 160D-1208, a stop work order
may be appealed pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405. No further work or activity shall
take place in violation of a stop work order pending a ruling on the appeal.
Violation of a stop work order shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor and
subject to a civil fine of $500.
(G.S. § 160D-404(b)) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.17.03 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of the development regulation, any
development regulation adopted pursuant to authority conferred by this
ordinance may be enforced by any remedy provided by G.S. § 160A-175. If a
building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used
or developed in violation of this ordinance or of any development regulation or
other regulation made under authority of this ordinance, the local government,
in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or development; to restrain,
correct or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises.
(G.S. § 160D-404(c)(1))
   (B)   The town shall have power to impose fines and penalties adopted by the
Board of Aldermen in the annual budget fee schedule for violation of this
ordinance, and may secure injunctions and abatement orders to further ensure
compliance with its ordinances as provided by this section.
   (C)   A violation of this ordinance is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
   (D)   A violation shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within seven days after he or she has been for
violation of the ordinance.
   (E)   This ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy
issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court
of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate,
and it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable
relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (F)   An unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may
be enforced by injunction and order of abatement, and the General Court of
Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders. When a violation of such
an ordinance occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the
General Court of Justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of
abatement commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or
cease the unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all
respects by the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules
of Civil Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (G)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed,
demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or other movable property be
removed from buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the ordinance. If the
defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of
abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may be cited for
contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The town shall have
a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of abatement in the
nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant may secure
cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the proceedings
and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be given with
sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an amount approved by the
judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned on the
defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement within a
time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not
suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (H)   This ordinance may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination of
the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (I)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 1-51 and 1-49, the town must bring a court action
in advance of the applicable five and seven-year statutes of limitation.
   (J)   Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.18 SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS.
   The provisions of this section supplement the common review procedures of §
2.08. These provisions do not replace the common review procedures, but in case
of any direct conflict between the requirements of this section and a
requirement of §
2.08, the provisions of this section shall govern.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.19 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDS). 
   (A)   General description and purpose. Planned unit developments are planned
developments in which the principal use of land within a development is for
both attached and detached single-family dwellings and/or condominiums,
townhouses other multi-family dwellings and commercial development. A planned
unit development is an alternative procedure for development that may be
utilized by owners and developers with regard to the development of any parcel
of land in those districts where planned unit developments are special uses
listed in Table 4-1, Use Table. The purposes of a planned unit development are
as follows:
      (1)   To provide for the preservation of large areas of open space for
recreation and preservation of natural amenities;
      (2)   To provide flexibility in design to take the greatest advantage of
natural land, water, trees and environmental and historical features;
      (3)   To provide for the creation of compatible neighborhood arrangements
that give the home buyer greater choice in selecting his or her living
environment;
      (4)   To provide sufficient freedom for the developer to submit plans
that embody a creative approach to the use of lands and related physical
development, as well as utilizing innovative techniques to enhance the visual
character of the development;
      (5)   To provide for the efficient use of land that may result in smaller
street and utility networks, better maintenance and upkeep of sewage disposal
systems, and reduced development and maintenance costs;
      (6)   To establish criteria for the inclusion of compatible or associated
uses to complement the residential area within the planned unit development;
      (7)   To simplify the procedures for obtaining approval of proposed
development through expeditious review of proposed land use, site layout,
public needs and health and safety factors;
      (8)   To minimize expenditures of public funds for services and
maintenance of streets, roads, central sewage systems and similar utilities,
and to promote the efficient investment of community resources; and
      (9)   To improve the level of amenities such as open space, appropriate
and harmonious variety, creative design and a better environment.
   (B)   Location. Planned developments may be established in those zoning
districts in which a planned unit development is shown as a special use in
Table 4-1. Single-family dwellings, townhouses, condominiums, multi-family
dwellings and commercial development or combinations thereof may be located
within a planned unit development.
   (C)   Preliminary and final review procedures and approvals. The procedure
for both preliminary and final approval by the Planning Board and the Board of
Aldermen as described in §
2.06.04, Special Use Permits and §
2.06.05, Subdivision of Land, shall also be applicable to planned unit
developments. The preliminary and final plats and documents shall meet the
requirements of §
6.02, Planned Unit Developments and, in addition thereto, the following
additional information and documents shall be submitted to the Planning Board
and Board of Aldermen simultaneously with the final plat:
      (1)   A copy of the proposed declaration of unit ownership and the
proposed bylaws meeting the requirements of G.S. Ch. 47A, in the event
condominiums are involved in the planned unit development.
      (2)   If the proposed planned unit development is to consist of
townhouses or other attached single-family dwellings other than condominiums, a
copy of the proposed restrictions, covenants and easements shall be provided.
The proposed annual budget for the homeowners' association shall also be
included.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.20 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Objectives and purpose. Permitting special uses adds flexibility to
the unified development ordinance. Subject to high standards of planning and
design, certain uses are allowed in districts where they are compatible but
where adverse impacts need to be minimized. By means of controls exercised
through the special use permit procedures, these uses can be developed to
minimize any bad effects they might have on surrounding properties.
   (B)   Granting authority.
      (1)   Special use permits must be approved by the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   Requests for special use permits granted by the Board of Aldermen
shall be initially reviewed by the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall pay
particular attention to consistency of the proposed use with the CAMA Land Use
Plan. At the meeting set by the Board of Aldermen for a evidentiary hearing,
the Planning Board's written comments shall be presented, along with the staff
report and are not subject to the rules of sworn evidence.
   (C)   Application submission.
      (1)   The owner(s) or anyone with a possessory interest entitled to
exclusive possession or anyone with a contractual interest soon to be a
freehold interest in the property included in the petition for a special use
permit shall submit an application to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days
before the meeting of the Board of Aldermen at which it is to be heard.
      (2)   It is recommended that the applicant or his or her representative
meet with the Zoning Administrator before beginning the application process to
discuss the proposed plans and the special use process.
      (3)   The application shall include all of the requirements pertaining to
it in this ordinance. In addition, the application shall demonstrate compliance
with the provisions identified for each special use identified in this
ordinance. Without complete information, the application shall not be processed
by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit sufficient information in order to
provide a full and accurate description of the proposed use including its
appearance and operational characteristics. The burden is on the applicant to
present sufficient evidence to allow the appropriate board to make a finding
that all the standards will be met.
      (5)   At the time of submission, applicants shall pay a fee according to
the fee schedule approved by the Board of Aldermen to partially defray the
costs of processing the application.
   (D)   Review procedures for special use permit.
      (1)   Notice of public evidentiary hearing. Upon receipt of a complete
application for a special use permit, a public hearing shall be scheduled for
an upcoming meeting of the Board of Aldermen. Notice of a public hearing shall
be provided in the following manner.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide written notice by first
class mail at least ten days before the hearing to all parties to the
proceeding and to owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel for which
the special use permit is sought. Names and addresses of property owners shall
be obtained from property tax listings.
         (b)   Notice shall also be provided by newspaper publication of the
location and subject of the request. Such notice shall run at least once each
week for two successive weeks before the Board of Aldermen meeting at which the
hearing is set for consideration of the request. The notice shall be published
for the first time not less than ten, nor more than 25 days before the date
fixed for the hearing.
         (c)   Notice shall also be posted by the town on the property subject
to the request. Notice shall be posted at least one week before the scheduled
hearing at which the request is to be heard.
      (2)   Public evidentiary hearing and action by Board of Aldermen. Upon
receipt of a complete application at least 30 days before a meeting of the
designated Board, the Board shall consider the applicant's request. All
evidence presented at the public hearing shall be under oath, and evidence
shall be competent, substantial and material. Following the public hearing, the
Board shall act on the applicant's request by either granting or denying the
request.
      (3)   Voting. When voting on the applicant's request for a special use
permit, a majority vote of the Board of Aldermen shall be required to grant the
request. Vacant seats and disqualified members are not counted in computing the
necessary majority vote. If the Board grants the special use permit, the
approval shall include approval of required plans as submitted.
      (4)   Conflicts. A member of the Board of Aldermen shall not participate
in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected
persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
conflicts include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter. If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by
majority vote rule on the objection.
      (5)   Findings. In granting the permit, the Board of Aldermen shall make
a written decision that:
         (a)   Identifies the key facts of the case and applies these facts to
the following standards. The Board must find that all of these conditions
exist, or the application will be denied;
         (b)   The use or development is located, designed and proposed to be
operated so as to maintain or promote the public health, safety and general
welfare;
         (c)   The use or development complies with all required regulations
and standards of this ordinance and with all other applicable regulations; and
         (d)   The use or development conforms to the plans for the land use
and development of town as embodied in this zoning ordinance and in the town
CAMA land use plan.
      (6)   (a)   Additional conditions. In granting the special use permit,
the Board may designate additional conditions that will, in its opinion, assure
that the use in its proposed location will be harmonious with the area in which
it is proposed to be located, is within the spirit of this ordinance and
clearly in keeping with the public welfare.
         (b)   All such additional conditions shall be entered into the minutes
of the meeting, at which the special use permit is granted, on the special use
permit itself and on the approved plans. The Board must obtain applicant's/
landowner's written consent to conditions related to a special use permit to
ensure enforceability. (S.L. 2019-111, Pt. I.) The special use permit and any
other specific conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the
original applicants, their heirs, successors and assigns. The Board must not
impose conditions on special use permits that the local government does not
otherwise have statutory authority to impose. (S.L. 2019-111, Pt. I.)
      (7)   Denial. If the specified board denies a request for a special use
permit, it shall enter the reasons for its action in the minutes of the meeting
at which the action was taken. A letter signed by the Zoning Administrator is
mailed to the applicant identifying the reasons for denial.
      (8)   Approvals and copies. Upon approval of the request for a special
use permit, a copy of the plan shall be dated and signed by the Zoning
Administrator, denoting town approval. One copy shall be returned to the
applicant.
      (9)   Appeal of decision. Appeal may be taken from the action of the
Board of Aldermen in granting or denying a special use permit through Superior
Court of the county. Any petition for review shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after a decision of the board is filed in the
office of the Town Clerk, or after a written copy of the decision is delivered
to every aggrieved party who has filed a written request for such copy with the
Clerk at the time of the hearing of the case, whichever is later. The decision
of the authorized board shall be delivered to the aggrieved party either by
personal service or by registered mail or certified mail return receipt
requested.
      (10)   Failure to comply with plans or conditions. In the event of
failure to comply with the plans approved by the Board of Aldermen or with any
other conditions imposed upon the special use permit, the permit shall
thereupon immediately become void and of no effect. No building permits for
further construction or certificates of occupancy under this special use permit
shall be issued, and all completed structures shall be regarded as
nonconforming uses subject to the provisions of this ordinance; provided,
however, that the Board of Aldermen shall not be prevented from thereafter
rezoning said property for its most appropriate use.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.21 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Subdivisions shall be subject to the following procedures and requirements
in addition to other applicable terms and conditions set forth in this
ordinance. Both preliminary and final plats and other documents including fees
required by this ordinance shall be submitted for approval to the Planning
Board and the Board of Aldermen.
   (A)   Sketch design plan.
      (1)   Prior to the filing of an application for approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board a sketch
design plan and a vicinity sketch showing the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to surrounding properties and areas of environmental concern. The
Planning Board shall review the sketch design plan for compliance with the
requirements of this ordinance and inform the subdivider about the regulations
that govern the proposed development and the procedure the subdivider is to
follow in preparing and submitting the preliminary and final plats. The
subdivider is to informally explain to the Planning Board the plans for
developing the proposed subdivision, including the kind and extent of proposed
improvements. The Planning Board is to discuss with the subdivider any
suggested changes deemed advisable. Discussion of a sketch design plan with or
without modifications shall not constitute or imply approval of any preliminary
or final subdivision plat based on the sketch design plan.
      (2)   Applicants shall submit 12 copies of all required application
materials. The sketch design plan and site planning sketches shall be drawn at
an approximate scale of one inch to 100 feet and include:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner and the subdivider;
         (b)   Existing conditions of the site including streets, roads,
rights-of-way, easements, watercourses, wetlands and structures;
         (c)   Zoning district;
         (d)   Approximate location of lot lines, approximate number of lots,
and total tract acreage and square footage;
         (e)   Square footage of proposed built-upon area and percentage of
total lot area; and
         (f)   Proposed rights-of-way, easements and any sites to be dedicated
for places of worship or public use.
   (B)   Preliminary plats.
      (1)   Application requirements. A preliminary plat shall be drawn at a
scale of not less than 100 feet to the inch, and show the following:
         (a)   Name. The subdivision name, the names and addresses of the
owners and the designer of the subdivision and his or her qualifications;
         (b)   Date and the like. Date, approximate north arrow and scale;
         (c)   Boundaries. The boundary line of the tract to be subdivided
drawn accurately to scale and with accurate linear and angular dimensions;
         (d)   Location map. A map with a scale of not less than one inch
equals 1,000 feet showing the location of the subdivision;
         (e)   Contours, contour interval and finished grades. Contours with a
vertical interval of two feet referenced to sea level datum perimeter and in
the interior shown in a manner that clearly distinguishes proposed elevations
from existing elevations;
         (f)   Primary dunes. The location of the primary dunes as established
by the N.C. Division of Coastal Management (NCDCM) or CAMA LPO;
         (g)   Existing property lines and the like. The location of existing
and platted property lines, acreage and square footage, zoning district,
streets, buildings, watercourses, railroads, bridges, water mains, sewers,
culverts, drainpipes and public utility easements, both on the land to be
subdivided and on the land immediately adjoining and any other pertinent
characteristics of the land. The names of adjoining subdivisions or the names
of record owners of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
         (h)   Proposed improvements. The names proposed locations and
approximate dimensions of all proposed improvements. All subdivision plats
which will create lots not directly abutting a dedicated and accepted public
street shall include proposed improvements for roadway access, either public or
private, to each of these lots and such roadways shall conform to the design
standards for town streets specified in §
6.02.05 of this unified development ordinance;
         (i)   Proposed changes. In all cases, shall be shown in a manner that
will distinguish them clearly from the existing characteristics of the land;
         (j)   Drainage. The preliminary plat shall also indicate and show
surface water drainage plans and methods. The preliminary plat shall include a
drawing showing storm water drainage supported by design computations. The
design shall conform to the standards as required by NCDOT, NCDWQ or other
regulatory state agency;
         (k)   Utilities. The preliminary plat shall include all applicable
utilities including street lighting. All utilities shall be underground.
Utility distribution boxes; such as, water meter boxes and transformers, shall
be located where side yard property lines intersect with street right-of-way
lines (front yard property lines) and placed at the property corners in a
manner that incompatible types of utility services will not conflict with each
other (i.e., electric services combined at a common corner of two adjacent lots
and water services combined at another common corner in order to serve two lots
from each location when possible);
         (l)   Environmental concern standards. In order to be in compliance
with area of environmental concern standards, the preliminary plat shall
contain a statement that the subdivision is located either within or without a
North Carolina Coastal Area Management Act Area of Environmental Concern and
shall show all required AEC data;
         (m)   Road plans and profiles. Road plans and profiles of all streets
showing natural and finished grades drawn to scale of not less than one inch
equals 40 feet horizontal and one inch equals four feet vertical;
         (n)   Health Department approval. Where public water and/or sewage is
not available for extension to each lot in the subdivision, a written report
from the County Health Department shall be submitted as to the adequacy of the
land area, and the suitability as to the soil and topography of the proposed
subdivision to accommodate the proposed methods of water supply and sewage
disposal;
         (o)   Required data. The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a
copy of all applications required by agencies other than the town. Applications
must contain all pertinent data required to process applications;
         (p)   Street access to subdivided lots. Except as otherwise provided
by this article, every subdivision of property within the jurisdiction of the
town shall include access to each and every lot of the subdivision by way of
dedicated and accepted public streets or by establishment of private street
systems which are platted and approved pursuant to the requirements of this
article. All public or private streets and bridges shall meet the design
standards as required by NCDOT; and
         (q)   Other information. Other information as deemed necessary by the
Planning Director.
      (2)   Approval procedure. The submission of a preliminary plat shall be
accompanied by a letter of transmittal describing the proposed subdivision and
a statement that the plat is in compliance with this ordinance. The Planning
Board shall review the preliminary plat and shall approve the preliminary plat
if it finds that the subdivision meets or exceeds the standards of this
development ordinance. Approval of a preliminary plat shall be valid for a
period of one year.
      (3)   Approval and conditional approval.
   (C)   When a preliminary plat is granted only a conditional approval, the
reasons for conditional approval and the conditions to be met must be stated in
writing. In lieu of granting conditional approval of the preliminary plat, the
Planning Board may require the subdivider to resubmit the preliminary plat in a
revised format that incorporates recommended changes.
   (D)   When a preliminary plat is disapproved by the Planning Board, reasons
for such action shall be stated in writing. One copy of the plat with the
reasons for disapproval shall be provided to the subdivider and one such copy
shall be retained by the Planning Director. The subdivider may make the
recommended changes and submit a revised plat to the Planning Board for
approval.
   (E)   If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plat, one copy approved
by the Planning Board shall be sent to the subdivider. If the preliminary plat
is granted conditional approval, the conditions for approval by the Board must
be noted and these conditions must be found by the Planning Director to be
satisfied prior to the plat being deemed acceptable. If the preliminary plat is
not acceptable to the Planning Board, the plat, along with the reasons for non-
approval, shall be returned to the applicant.
   (F)   Final plat.
      (1)   Application requirements. The final plat shall be a reproducible
map on linen, film or other permanent material and shall have an outside
marginal size of 24 inches by 36 inches, including one and one half inches for
binding on the left margin and one-half-inch border on each of the other sides.
Where the size of land areas is of a suitable scale, to assure legibility
requirements maps may be placed on two or more sheets with appropriate match
lines, it shall be drawn to the same scale as the preliminary plat, and shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Boundary and the like. The exact boundary of the tract of land
being subdivided, showing clearly the disposition of all portions of the tract
into designated tracts, lots, streets, alleys, parks, open spaces, easements or
other classifications, the exact location and width of all existing or recorded
streets intersecting the boundary of the tract being subdivided, and the names
of adjoining subdivisions or the name of record owners or adjoining parcels of
unsubdivided land, including the boundaries of all special flood hazard areas.
All existing characteristics of the land shall be clearly defined from those
characteristics that are proposed.
         (b)   Streets and the like. The lines and names of all streets,
alleys, boundary lines, lot lines, building lines, easements, areas devoted to
public use, and lot and block numbers.
         (c)   Title. A note shall appear on the final plat stating the deed
reference under which title to the property being subdivided is held.
         (d)   Lines. Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce
accurately on the ground the location, bearing, and length of every street and
alley line, lot line, easement, boundary line and building line whether
straight or curved. This shall include tangent distance, the central angle, the
radius, arcs and chords of all curves. All linear dimensions shall be given in
feet and hundredths thereof, and angular dimensions shall be of comparable
accuracy within the limits of good surveying practice.
         (e)   Monuments and control corners. The accurate location, material
and size of all monuments and the designation of specific control corners in
conformance with the letter and intent of G.S. §§ 39-32.1, 39-32.2, 39-32.3 and
39-32.4 shall be known.
         (f)   Name of engineer and the like. The title, including the name of
the subdivision, the town, the name of the registered engineer or registered
surveyor under whose supervision the plat was prepared, the date of the plat,
and a north arrow. Indication shall be made as to whether the north index is
true, magnetic or grid.
         (g)   Certificate of ownership and dedication of streets and right-of-
way. For any plat submitted which incorporates public roadways, streets,
easements and other rights-of-way, a certificate of ownership and dedication
shall be shown properly completed and signed by the owners and all other
interested parties, similar in wording to the following: the undersigned hereby
acknowledge(s) this plat and allotment to be (his, her, their) free act and
deed, and hereby dedicate(s) to public use as streets, playgrounds, parks, open
spaces and easements forever all areas so shown or indicated on said plat.
                                                                                                              
             Owner                                      Date
         (h)   Owner's certification as to sewer service.
            I certify (i) that I am the owner of the lands shown on this map
and of all the sewer service infrastructure located on such lands, (ii) that
all required sewer service improvements have been constructed within the
streets and/or utility easements shown on this map in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the sewer service provider below, (iii) that such
sewer service improvements are hereby dedicated and conveyed to the sewer
service provider, free of liens and encumbrances, (iv) that the sewer service
provider is hereby granted a perpetual easement over all streets and utility
easements shown on this map, and (v) that the undersigned warrants to the sewer
service provider for a period of 18 months from the date of this certification
that such improvements are free from defects in materials and workmanship.
            This          day of              , 20      
            [NAME OF OWNER]
            By:                                               Title:
                                                   
         (i) Certificate as to sewer utilities and dedication.
            I hereby certify that the plans and specifications for the sewer
service improvements for ______________________ subdivision have been reviewed
by the sewer service provider, that such sewer service improvements have been
constructed, and that the sewer service provider hereby accepts the dedication
of the sewer service improvements along with associated easements.
            This          day of              , 20      
            [NAME OF SEWER SERVICE PROVIDER]
            By:                                         
            Print Name:                                         
            Title:                                         
         (j)   Copy of the sewer service affidavit agreement regarding liens.
         (k)   Owner's certification as to water service.
            I certify (i) that I am the owner of the lands shown on this map
and of all of the water and/or sewer infrastructure located on such lands, (ii)
that all required water and/or sewer improvements have been constructed within
the streets and/or utility easements shown on this map in accordance with plans
and specifications approved by Onslow Water and Sewer Authority ("ONWASA"),
(iii) that all such water and/or sewer improvements are hereby dedicated and
conveyed to ONWASA, free of liens and encumbrances, (iv) that ONWASA is hereby
granted a perpetual easement over all streets and utility easements shown on
this map, and (v) that the undersigned warrants to ONWASA for a period of 18
months from the date of this certification that such improvements are free from
defects in materials and workmanship.
            This          day of              , 20      
            [NAME OF OWNER]
            By:                                         
            Title:                                                   
         (l)   Certificate as to water utilities and dedication.
            I hereby certify that the plans and specifications for the water
and/or sewer improvements for subdivision have been reviewed and approved by
Onslow Water and Sewer Authority that such water and/or sewer improvements have
been constructed, and that Onslow Water and Sewer Authority hereby accepts the
dedication of the water and/or sewer improvements along with associated
easements.
            This          day of              , 20      
            Onslow Water and Sewer Authority By:
                                  
            Print Name:                                         
            Title:                                         
         (m)   Copy of the water service affidavit agreement regarding liens.
         (n)   Owners' association documents for maintenance of private
improvements. For any plat submitted incorporating private roadways, streets,
easements and other rights-of-way, the following documents shall be submitted
simultaneously with the final plat in order to provide for ongoing maintenance
of private improvements that will not be dedicated to the town:
            1.   Documents creating the owners' association. The documents
creating the association shall provide for control by the property owners other
than the developer at such time as over 50% of the lots within the subdivision
have been sold;
            2.   Proposed annual budget for the owners' association which
includes the proposed monthly expenditures and income;
            3.   A proposed ten-year income and expense budget reflecting the
establishment of a sinking fund for capital replacement;
            4.   A copy of the proposed bylaws of the association, and, when
applicable, a declaration of unit ownership meeting the requirements of G.S.
Ch. 47A or 47C; and
            5.   A copy of the proposed restrictions, covenants and assessments
shall also be provided.
         (o)   Form for endorsement. A form for the endorsement of the town
Board of Aldermen shall be similar to the following:
            “Approved by the Board of Aldermen of the Town of North Topsail
Beach, North Carolina, effective on the __________ day of _____________, 20___.
            ______________________________________
            Signed Mayor, Town of North Topsail Beach”
         (p)   Certification. The plat shall show proper certificates of the
engineer or surveyor, notary public and the probate clerk as required by state
law.
         (q)   AEC Standards. The AEC certification shall be similar to the
following:
            (i)   “This subdivision conforms to the standards of the North
Carolina Coastal Area Management Act of 1974, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq.
and is not located within an Area of Environmental Concern.
                                                                                         
Signed Planning Director”
            (ii)   “This subdivision conforms to the standards of the North
Carolina Coastal Area Management Act of 1974, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq.,
and portions of the subdivision located within an Area of Environmental Concern
is duly noted.
                                                                                         
Signed Planning Director”
      (2)   Preparation of final plat. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by
the Board of Aldermen, the subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the
final plat, and the construction of required improvements in accordance with
the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this ordinance. Prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider must complete the construction of
all required improvements, or substantially complete all required improvements
and guarantee completion by posting a letter-of-credit or cashier's check in
accordance with this section.
      (3)   Planning Board review. The Planning Board shall review the final
plat to ensure that the subdivision meets or exceeds the standards of this
ordinance. Upon determination that these standards have been achieved, the
Planning Board shall recommend to the Board of Aldermen that the final
subdivision plat be approved.
      (4)   Submitting final plat. After the preliminary plat has been
approved, the final subdivision plat shall be prepared and submitted for final
approval within one year after approval of the preliminary plat. Such owner or
subdivider shall submit three 18-inch by 24-inch reproducible Mylar copies of
the final plat, properly signed and executed as required for recording in the
County Register of Deeds along with the necessary probate and recording fees to
the Planning Director. Upon approval by the Board of Aldermen, the Planning
Director, or designee, shall forward the final plat to the County Register of
Deeds for recording.
      (5)   Conformity with preliminary plat. The final plat shall conform with
the preliminary plat as approved, and, if desired by the owner or subdivider,
it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat that he or
she proposes to record and develop at the time provided that:
         (a)   The Planning Board shall find that the subdivision is reasonably
located with respect to existing roads and utility lines; and
         (b)   Such portion shall conform to all requirements of this
ordinance.
      (6)   State Board compliance. The final plat shall conform in all ways to
the state statute G.S. § 47-30, as amended and to the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors “Manual of Practice
for Land Surveying”.
      (7)   AEC standards. Area of Environmental Concern standards
certification shall be provided on the final plat by the local permit officer
that the subdivision is either within or without a North Carolina Coastal
Management Act of 1974 Area of Environmental Concern.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.21.01 SECURITY FOR UNCOMPLETED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Performance guarantee.
      (1)   In lieu of prior construction of the improvements required by this
ordinance, the Board of Alderman may, for the purpose of approving a final
plat, accept a guarantee from the subdivider that such improvements will be
carried out according to the final plat and the town's specifications at his or
her expense. Such guarantee may be in the form of a surety bond made by a
surety company licensed to do business in the state, a letter of credit or
certified check drawn in favor of the town, or cash deposited with the town. To
secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the approval of
the Town Board of Alderman an engineer's cost estimate equal to 125% of the
entire cost of the improvements and a schedule indicating time of initiation
and completion of the work, as a whole or in stages to the Subdivision
Administrator. The engineer's cost estimate shall show the quantities, unit
costs and estimated total costs. All expenses associated with the town's
review, recommendation, modification and approval relative to the amount of any
performance guarantee and periodic drawdowns shall be born directly by the
subdivider.
      (2)   Performance guarantees shall run for a period of one year and may
be renewed once for a period of one year upon written approval from the Board
of Alderman.
   (B)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider
to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled out in the
performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the financial
institution holding the escrow account shall if requested by the Board of
Alderman, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town up to
the amount needed to complete the improvements based on an engineering
estimate. Upon payment, the Board of Alderman, in its discretion, may expend
such portion of said funds, as it deems necessary to complete all or any
portion of the required improvements. The town shall return to the subdivider
any funds not spent in completing the improvements.
   (C)   Release of guarantee security.
      (1)   The Board of Alderman may release a portion of any security posted
as the improvements are completed once said improvements are inspected and
approved by the Subdivision Administrator.
      (2)   In the event that the applicant wishes to occupy any building or
any portion of any building prior to the completion of the required site
improvements, the financial guarantee guaranteeing improvements shall be
retained by the town until the remaining required improvements are completed.
   (D)   Areas for use. All property shown on the plat as dedicated for public
use shall be deemed to be dedicated for any other public use authorized by the
Town Charter or any general, local or special law pertaining to the town, when
such other use is approved by the Board of Aldermen as in the public interest.
   (E)   Recordation of plat. No plat shall be recorded until the final
subdivision plat is approved in accordance with this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.22 SPECIAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The following types of development shall be subject to special plat approval
by the Board of Aldermen, regardless of whether they involve a formal
subdivision of land.
   (A)   Group housing and other special developments.
      (1)   Generally. This section shall apply to group housing and special
developments to include apartments, condominiums, townhouses and planned unit
developments.
      (2)   Application requirements. The application for preliminary approval
and the preliminary plat shall contain the following information on one or more
sheets, and shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   General information:
            1.   Name of development;
            2.   Name of owner and developer;
            3.   Name of land planner, architect, engineer or surveyor;
            4.   Scale of map which shall be 50 feet to an inch; and
            5.   Date of preliminary plan.
         (b)   A vicinity map showing all roads in the general area of the
proposed group housing development, and also showing the relationship of the
group housing project site to major roads in the area.
         (c)   The dimensions and bearings of all exterior property lines shall
be shown on the preliminary plat.
         (d)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not more than two feet
shall be provided for all projects and shall be shown either on the preliminary
plat or on a topographic survey which accompanies the preliminary plat. In the
event a topographic survey is submitted with the preliminary plat, it shall be
drawn to the same scale as the preliminary plat and shall show land contours
with vertical intervals of not more than two feet. Final grades around the
perimeter and at significant locations inside the lot(s) shall be shown on the
drawings.
         (e)   The preliminary plat shall show all roads within the group
housing project area to include access roads and adjacent roads to the project
area.
         (f)   The preliminary plat shall show and specifically locate all
structures and buildings within the project site to include both present and
proposed structures and buildings. The dimensions of the buildings and
structures shall be shown in detail.
         (g)   All recreational and open spaces both existing and proposed
shall be indicated in detail, and all structures, uses and buildings both
existing and proposed within the recreation and open spaces shall be indicated
in detail.
         (h)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by detailed plans of
the developer concerning the method of surfacing roads and parking areas.
         (i)   The preliminary plat shall indicate in detail the location and
intensity of area lights in the general plan of the electrical system for the
proposed area. All utilities shall be underground.
         (j)   The preliminary plat shall indicate the source of water and the
distribution system for the source of water. In the event the water system
requires approval by the County Health Department, state and/or federal
agencies, then plans and specifications approved by each agency having
jurisdiction over the system must be approved. If the water distribution system
requires approval from the County Health Department, then the approval of the
County Health Department must accompany the preliminary plats.
         (k)   If a sewage collection disposal system is used, plans and
specifications approved by Pluris, state and/or federal agencies must be
submitted. If the public sewage system is not required and such system comes
under the jurisdiction of the County Health Department, then their approval
must accompany the preliminary plats.
         (l)   The preliminary plats shall indicate bodies of water, marshes,
wooded areas, rivers, creeks and other natural conditions which may affect
development within the project site.
         (m)   The preliminary plat shall indicate all adjoining property
owners.
         (n)   The north arrow and graphic scale shall be shown. The
preliminary plat shall indicate in detail the site data as follows:
            1.   Total acreage in the project, and natural area and method of
calculation;
            2.   Type of group housing project units to be approved;
            3.   Number of one- to four-bedroom group housing project units;
            4.   Maximum project area covered by all structures and
improvements;
            5.   Minimum front, rear and side yards for each unit within the
group housing project;
            6.   Minimum distance between principal buildings;
            7.   Height of each building;
            8.   Parking area and parking spaces for the project; and
            9.   If the group housing project proposes townhouses, duplexes,
row houses or other attached single-family dwellings, other than condominiums,
the size of each lot shall be indicated. The minimum lot width and side, rear
and front yards of each unit shall be indicated in detail.
         (o)   The preliminary plat shall also indicate the height above sea
level for the project site, and shall indicate whether or not any of the
project area is within the area of environmental concern as defined under the
Coastal Area Management Act, being G.S. §§ 113A-100 et seq.
         (p)   All utilities, including street construction, shall conform to
the construction standards of the town and appropriate utility and state
agency. The width and rights-of-way of streets shall meet the minimum standards
for streets within the town as contained in Table 6-2, Right-of-Way Widths. The
dedication of streets to the public use shall not be required, but the streets
shall be designed and constructed meeting the minimum standards of the town in
the event of future dedication of such streets to the town or NCDOT.
         (q)   The declaration of unit ownership, bylaws, restrictions or
covenants shall contain information as to whom shall be responsible for payment
of premiums for liability insurance, local taxes, maintenance of recreational
facilities, parking lots, streets and drives, and other common areas,
assessments, maintenance and repair expenses, and similar costs.
         (r)   All natural areas, as defined in §
3.03 Coastal Forest Overlay District (CFOD), shall be clearly delineated with
dimensions shown, in order to verify the calculations of the reserved areas.
      (3)   Procedure for approval. Both preliminary and final plats and other
documents required by this ordinance shall be submitted to the Planning Board
and the Board of Aldermen in the same manner as preliminary and final
subdivision plats. The application for preliminary and final approval of the
group development shall contain the information and documents as required in §
2.06.03, in addition to the information required on preliminary and final
subdivision plats, except as varied in this section. The same procedure for
preliminary and final approval of subdivision plats as set forth in §§
2.06.05(B), 2.06.05(C) and applicable provisions of this ordinance shall be
applicable to preliminary and final approval of group housing plats, except as
varied herein. Once final approval has been given by the Board of Aldermen, all
final plats shall be recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Commercial and business condominiums.
      (1)   Condominiums and townhouses designed, developed and constructed
primarily for business and/or commercial use shall be subject to the procedure
for preliminary and final approval by the Planning Board and the Board of
Aldermen as detailed in paragraph (A) above in addition to any other terms and
conditions set forth in this ordinance.
      (2)   The preliminary application and preliminary plats shall meet the
requirements of for group housing and other special developments above, as
applicable, and in addition thereto the following additional information and
documents shall be submitted to the Planning Board and Board of Aldermen prior
to final approval for approval by the Planning Board and Board of Aldermen, and
such information and documents shall be submitted simultaneously with the final
plats:
         (a)   Documents creating the condominium owners' association. The
documents creating the association shall provide for control by the property
owners other than the developer at such time as over 50% of the condominium
units within the project have been sold;
         (b)   A proposed ten-year income and expense budget reflecting the
establishment of a sinking fund for capital replacement;
         (c)   A copy of the proposed declaration of unit ownership and
proposed bylaws meeting the requirements of G.S. § 47A;
         (d)   If the project is to consist of townhouses or other structures
other than condominiums, a copy of the proposed restrictions, covenants and
assessments shall also be provided; and
         (e)   Once final approval has been given by the Board of Aldermen, all
final plats shall be recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
   (C)   Manufactured home park permit. Pursuant to NCAC 15A 07H.0306(e), as
amended, manufactured homes shall not be placed within the high hazard flood
area unless they are within manufactured home parks existing as of June 1,
1979. As of the adoption of this ordinance, new manufactured home parks are not
permitted in the town. Existing manufactured homes are a nonconforming use,
subject to the provisions of §
9.03.
   (D)   Recreational vehicle park permit. The placement of recreational
vehicles shall not be authorized in flood hazard areas subject to high velocity
wave action and in floodways, pursuant to the State Building Code, § G601.1, as
amended. As of the adoption of this ordinance, new recreational vehicle parks
are not permitted in the town. Existing recreational vehicle parks are a
nonconforming use, subject to the provisions of §
9.01.01.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 2.23 COMMERCIAL PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Commercial plan and design requirements.
      (1)   Development plans involving new construction of commercial space
must be approved by the Board of Aldermen before issuance of a zoning permit.
The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations prior to recommending
action by the Board of Aldermen; furthermore, the Planning Board may return the
development plan to the applicant/owner for revision and/or additional
information before recommending action by the Board.
      (2)   Upon submittal of a development plan and all required materials
specified by the Planning Board, the Planning Board shall have 20 working days
to either return the development plan to the applicant with noncompliance
findings noted, or notify the applicant of an approval/rejection/
recommendation for approval/return for revision and/or additional information.
Notification may be verbal, but must be documented in writing within 30 days
following the notification date. Each time a development plan is rejected,
revised or returned for additional information, the timetable for official
action shall begin anew. Should a period of 30 days elapse between the
submittal of a development plan and the issuance of a written notification,
then the development plan shall be deemed approved/recommended for approval.
      (3)   Where Board of Aldermen approval is required as specified herein,
the Board shall have 60 days following receipt of the Planning Board's
recommendation to take action either to approve or reject the development plan.
Failure of the Board of Aldermen to act on the development plan within the
specified period shall deem approval of the development plan as submitted.
      (4)   Applicants wishing to re-submit rejected development plans must
reapply. Substantial changes to approved development plans must be reviewed by
the Planning Board and approved by the Board of Aldermen. Approved development
plans must apply for all required permits, including zoning. All reapplications
are subject to the current fee schedule as approved by the Board of Aldermen.
      (5)   Applicants requesting development plan review/approval shall be
required to pay a review fee in accordance with the fee schedule at the time of
each development plan submittal and/or request for substantial revision.
   (B)   Effect of development plan approval; validity.
      (1)   Approval of the development plan shall authorize the applicant to
proceed with the installation of site improvements provided all other
regulatory requirements and permits are satisfied. Approval shall not authorize
the sale or transfer of lots/tracts/units, or the occupancy/use, or the
revision of the approved development plan. Development plan approval shall be
void unless installation of improvements is in accordance with the approved
development plan and/or approved revisions thereto. Development plan approval
is valid for a period of one year from the date of approval; however, approved
revisions shall not constitute additional time unless specified in writing by
the Planning Board upon approval of said revisions. Substantial revision to a
development plan requires re-application as described in §
2.06.06(A), may constitute a new validation period.
      (2)   Projects requiring more than one year for construction and
completion may request additional time in either the application or a
subsequent letter or request; however, no approval shall be granted for a
period greater than two years. Projects requiring phased construction or
approval for periods exceeding two years shall submit development plans for
each phase or for each extended period of construction, subject to the
discretion of the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   As-built plans; validity and effect.
      (1)   A set of as-built drawings and technical data shall be prepared by
the applicant and submitted to the Building Inspector and Zoning Official for
review of compliance prior to occupancy and/or use of developments. The Zoning
Official shall notify the applicant within 15 days of receipt of the
development plan as-built drawing and technical data, of any noncompliance or
deficiency in information.
      (2)   As-built drawing(s) and technical data shall be kept on file at the
Town Hall along with one copy of the approved development plan and any approved
revisions thereto.
      (3)   Commercial development not in compliance with an approved
development plan shall not be eligible for occupancy/use until all corrective
measures are taken to satisfy the requirements herein.
   (D)   Sketch plan requirements and procedure.
      (1)   The sketch plan should be drawn to scale, preferably the scale
required for development plan submittal. Required information shall include the
following:
         (a)   Property boundaries and total acreage and square footage;
         (b)   Major topographical and physical features (i.e., water bodies,
slopes, buildings, areas of environmental concern, streets and the like);
         (c)   Proposed streets, buildings and/or lot arrangement;
         (d)   Existing and proposed land use with brief project description
including building sizes, unit sizes, lot sizes, open space, amenities and the
like;
         (e)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant/owner and
persons (FIRM) preparing the development plan;
         (f)   Adjacent street names, numbers and right-of-way widths; and
         (g)   Zoning district classification of site and surrounding
properties, including those across streets.
      (2)   The sketch plan shall be submitted providing at least nine copies.
   (E)   Development plan requirements and procedure.
      (1)   The development plan shall be drawn to scale of one inch equals 30
feet unless otherwise approved by the Planning Board. Required information may
be waived and/or recommended information required at the discretion of the
Planning Board, where special circumstances avail. The development plan shall
be submitted providing the minimum required information and should contain all
applicable recommended information:
         (a)   Existing and proposed topographic contours, at vertical
intervals no greater than two feet, of development areas;
         (b)   The location, use and outline of existing and proposed buildings
and structures;
         (c)   Square footage and total percentage of built upon area;
         (d)   The location of proposed open spaces;
         (e)   The location, name, pavement width and right-of-way width of
existing streets;
         (f)   The location, name, pavement width, curb type, right-of-way
width, pavement type, sidewalk location and curb cuts of all proposed street
and parking facilities and site improvement.
         (g)   The location of all existing and proposed utilities including
electrical, water, sewage, telephone, fiber optic and gas facilities (including
easements); all utilities must be underground;
         (h)   The location of all existing and proposed drainage facilities
necessary to serve the site (including easements);
         (i)   Schedule of densities showing the number and type of units per
acre;
         (j)   Schedule of building uses, by type, showing the number of
bedrooms, the number of units and floor area;
         (k)   Buffer and screening devices proposed to separate uses within
the development;
         (l)   Proposed perimeter buffers and screening devices;
         (m)   Proposed schedule of development for each phase of the project
showing anticipated time for completion and estimated completion dates;
         (n)   Property line survey and acreage data;
         (o)   Vicinity map at a scale of one inch equals 400 feet and
encompassing an area no less than one fourth mile in radius of the site and
including:
            1.   Existing streets;
            2.   Existing watercourses and FEMA flood hazard areas; and
            3.   Existing land uses on the site and in the area surrounding the
site.
         (p)   Written and graphic scale, north arrow and title;
         (q)   Proposed name of development;
         (r)   Technical report containing:
            1.   A description of the project including general
characteristics, development concept, architectural design and amenities;
            2.   A general assessment of impact showing the proposed impact
upon all affected utilities, transportation facilities, the environment, the
local economy and local government; and
            3.   Engineering report to demonstrate adequacy of existing and
proposed public facilities.
      (s)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and persons
(FIRM) preparing the development plan;
      (t)   Zoning district classification of site and surrounding properties,
including those across street(s);
      (u)   Owner names of surrounding properties;
      (v)   Existing driveway cuts on all adjacent properties (including those
across the street(s); and
      (w)   Certificate of review and approval of the technical standards:
         “I hereby certify that I have reviewed the plan and the plan meets or
exceeds the regulations and Ordinances of the Town of North Topsail Beach.
 
Public Works Director Date
Fire Marshall         Date
Police Chief          Date
Building Inspector    Date
Planning Director     Date
 
      (2)   Development plans requiring consideration by the Board of Aldermen
shall be submitted in sets of nine copies for Planning Board and eight copies
for the Board of Aldermen upon recommendation by the Planning Board. Applicants
are encouraged to submit the eight copies for Aldermen review after receiving
and incorporating comments resulting from the Planning Board's recommendation.
Facilities and/or improvement proposed for dedication to the state, the county
and/or the town and/or their political subdivisions shall be submitted for
design approval and plan. Before constructing, detailed plans and
specification, prepared by a licensed professional engineer, shall be reviewed
and approved by each relevant entity in accordance with their respective
policies regarding said facilities and/or improvements. Approval of the
development plan does not imply or satisfy approval requirements for such
facilities and/or improvements.
   (F)   As-built development plan requirements.
      (1)   The as-built development plan shall be submitted in accordance with
paragraph (C) above, and the following requirements.
         (a)   The as-built development plan shall constitute only that portion
of the approved development plan proposed for occupancy and/or use at that
time.
         (b)   An as-built development plan may be required to show or be
accompanied by the following information subject to the discretion of the
Planning Director:
            1.   Name of development;
            2.   Date including the month, day and year of the original
drawings and of each revision;
            3.   Names and addresses of the owner of record, the applicant, the
land planner, the surveyor and the engineer;
            4.   Boundary lines of the development with distances accurate to
hundredths of a foot and bearings of one-half a minute;
            5.   Building height;
            6.   Radii, central angles, tangents, length of acres and curvature
of all new street lines;
            7.   Lines and widths of all easements with dimensions accurate to
hundredths of a foot and notation of the purpose of the easement or any
limitations on its use;
            8.   The location and elevation of the benchmark to which contour
elevation refer;
            9.   Lot number and a statement of the total number of lots. Lot
lines shall be defined by distances in hundredths of a foot and in degrees to
the nearest one-half of a minute, either by magnetic bearings or by angles of
deflection from other lot and street lines;
            10.   Building setback lines with dimensions;
            11.   Statement of the intended use of all commercial areas, with
reference to existing or proposed restrictions;
            12.   Accurate boundaries and specific designation of any area to
be dedicated or reserved for public use of acquisition; and
            13.   Accurate boundaries of flood hazards areas and areas of
environmental concern.
         (c)   Certificate of ownership and dedication:
            “I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and
described hereon, which is located in the Corporate Limits of the Town of North
Topsail Beach, and that I hereby adopt this development plan with my free
consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets,
walks, parks, and other sites and easement to public or private use as noted.
Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer and water lines to the
appropriate agency.
            Owner:                                             Date:
                     
         (d)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
            “I, _________________ certify that this map was (drawn under my
supervision) (deed description recorded in Book ____, page ____, etc.)(other
specify); that the error of closure as calculated by latitudes and departures
is 1:_; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines platted from
information found in Book ____, page and seal this _________ day of
_______________, 20_____, A.D.
            Surveyor, Date Registration No., Seal
            Sworn to and subscribed before me this _______ day of
________________.
            Notary Public Seal
         (e)   Certification of the approval of streets and utilities:
            We hereby certify: 1) that streets, utilities, and other
improvements have been installed within the Development shown and described
here on in an acceptable manner and in accordance with design standards of the
applicable regulations and Zoning Ordinance, Town of North Topsail Beach, North
Carolina and other specification so the town: or, 2) that a security bond in
the amount of $____, case in the amount of $_____, or an irrevocable letter of
credit payable upon demand by the town has been posted with the town to assure
completion of all required improvements in case of default.
            Date:                                  
            Surveyor:                                
            Registration No.:                             
            Seal
            Sworn to and subscribed before me this _______ day of
______________
            Notary Public Seal
         (f)   Certificate of approval of water and sewage system:
            I hereby certify that the water supply system and the sewage
disposal system installed or planned to be installed to serve each lot or unit
within the Development shown and described here on fully meets the requirements
of the Onslow County Health Department.
            Environmental Health Specialist:                         Date:
                    
         (g)   Certificate of approval for recording:
            I hereby certify that the development plan shown hereon has been
found to comply with the Zoning Ordinance, Town of North Topsail Beach, North
Carolina with the exception of such variances, if any, as are noted in the
minutes of the Board of Adjustment at its meeting on ____________ and may be
recorded in the Office of Clerk of Onslow County.
            Planning Director:                                          Date:
                
      (2)   The as-built development plan shall be provided in a minimum of two
copies, each bearing the original signatures and executions of the
aforementioned applicable certifications.
   (G)   Design requirements. All development shall be in conformance with the
following design and/or construction requirements.
      (1)   Private improvements. Any and all components for development not
intended and/or proposed for public facilities dedication and/or public utility
shall be in conformance with the following regulations.
         (a)   Driveway and parking facilities construction shall be in
accordance with §
6.05.
         (b)   Water and sewer line (collection/distribution and service)
construction shall be in accordance with policies and procedures established
and design requirements and construction standards established by the water and
sewer authorities.
         (c)   Buildings and their respective appurtenances shall be
constructed in accordance with policies, procedures, design requirements and
construction standards established herein and by the building code adopted by
the town, as amended.
         (d)   Signs and their respective appurtenances shall be constructed in
accordance with the policies, procedures, design requirements and construction,
standards established in
Article 8 of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
ARTICLE 3: ZONING
Section
   
3.01   Purposes
   
3.02   Zoning districts
   
3.03   Official zoning map
   
3.03.01   Establishment of the official zoning map
   
3.03.02   Map certification and changes
   
3.03.03   District boundaries
   
3.04   Descriptions and purpose of zoning
   
3.04.01   Con-D Conservation District
   
3.04.02   R-A Residential-Agricultural District
   
3.04.03   R-20 Residential District
   
3.04.04   R-15 Residential District
   
3.04.05   R-10 Residential District
   
3.04.06   R-8 Multi-Family Residential District
   
3.04.07   R-5 Multi-Family Residential
   
3.04.08   MHR Manufactured Housing Residential
   
3.04.09   B-1 Business District
   
3.04.10   B-2 Business District
   
3.05   Coastal Forest Overlay District (CFOD)
   
3.06   Interpretation of map and district boundaries
   
3.07   Procedures for changes and amendments
   
3.08   Action by the applicant
   
3.08.01   Initiation of amendments
   
3.08.02   Application (petition)
   
3.08.03   Fees
   
3.08.04   Public hearing notices
   
3.08.05   Re-application for amendment
   
3.08.06   Action by the Planning Board
   
3.08.07   Action by the Board of Aldermen
   
3.09   Withdrawal of the application
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, see
Article 11
   Use regulations, see
Article 4
§ 3.01 PURPOSES.
   Zoning regulations shall be made in accordance with a comprehensive plan and
shall be designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare. To
that end, the regulations may address, among other things, the following public
purposes: to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of
land; to avoid undue concentration of population; to lessen congestion in the
streets; to secure safety from fire, panic, and dangers; to facilitate the
efficient and adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks, and other public requirements; and to promote the health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the community. The regulations shall be made with
reasonable consideration, among other things, as to the character of the
district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and with a view to
conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of
land throughout the local government's planning and development regulation
jurisdiction. The regulations may not include, as a basis for denying a zoning
or rezoning request from a school, the level of service of a road facility or
facilities abutting the school or proximately located to the school.
(G.S. § 160D-701) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.02 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Types of zoning districts. A local government may divide its
territorial jurisdiction into zoning districts of any number, shape, and area
deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this article. Within those
districts, it may regulate and restrict the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, or use of buildings, structures, or land.
Zoning districts may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Conventional districts, in which a variety of uses are allowed as
permitted uses or uses by right and that may also include uses permitted only
with a special use permit.
      (2)   Conditional districts, in which site plans or individualized
development conditions are imposed.
      (3)   Form-based districts, or development form controls, that address
the physical form, mass, and density of structures, public spaces, and
streetscapes.
      (4)   Overlay districts, in which different requirements are imposed on
certain properties within one or more underlying conventional, conditional, or
form-based districts.
      (5)   Districts allowed by charter.
   (B)   Conditional districts. Property may be placed in a conditional
district only in response to a petition by all owners of the property to be
included. Specific conditions may be proposed by the petitioner or the local
government or its agencies, but only those conditions approved by the local
government and consented to by the petitioner in writing may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations. Unless consented to by the petitioner in writing,
in the exercise of the authority granted by this section, the town may not
require, enforce, or incorporate into the zoning regulations any condition or
requirement not authorized by otherwise applicable law, including, without
limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of
G.S. § 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in
G.S. §§ 136-18(29) and 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the
development or use of land. Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a
conditional district shall be limited to those that address the conformance of
the development and use of the site to local government ordinances, plans
adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501, or the impacts reasonably expected to be
generated by the development or use of the site. The zoning regulation may
provide that defined minor modifications in conditional district standards that
do not involve a change in uses permitted or the density of overall development
permitted may be reviewed and approved administratively. Any other modification
of the conditions and standards in a conditional district shall follow the same
process for approval as are applicable to zoning map amendments. If multiple
parcels of land are subject to a conditional zoning, the owners of individual
parcels may apply for modification of the conditions so long as the
modification would not result in other properties failing to meet the terms of
the conditions. Any modifications approved apply only to those properties whose
owners petition for the modification.
   (C)   Uniformity within districts. Except as authorized by the foregoing,
all regulations shall be uniform for each class or kind of building throughout
each district but the regulations in one district may differ from those in
other districts.
   (D)   Standards applicable regardless of district. A zoning regulation or
unified development ordinance may also include development standards that apply
uniformly jurisdiction-wide rather than being applicable only in particular
zoning districts.
(G.S. § 160D-703) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.03 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
§ 3.03.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The town is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as established in §
3.01.03, and as shown on the official zoning map which, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.03.02 MAP CERTIFICATION AND CHANGES.
   The official zoning map shall be identified by the Mayor’s signature,
attested by the Clerk and bear the seal of the town, together with the
effective date of the adoption of the map. The map shall be retained in Town
Hall and all the notations, references and all amendments thereto, and other
information shown thereon is hereby made a part of this ordinance the same as
if such information set forth on the map were all fully described and set out
herein. If changes are made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed
on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official
zoning map.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.03.03 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In the creation by this ordinance of the respective districts, careful
consideration is given to the peculiar suitability of each and every district
for the particular regulations applied thereto, and the necessary, proper and
comprehensive groupings and arrangements of various uses and densities of
population in accordance with a well-considered comprehensive plan for the
physical development of the area. In order to implement the intent of this
ordinance, there are hereby created zoning districts with the following
designations and general purposes:
   Con-D   Conservation District
   RA   Residential Agricultural
   R20   Residential District
   R15   Residential District
   R10   Residential District
   R8   Multi-Family Residential
   CD-R8   Conditional Use Multi-Family Residential
   R5   Multi-Family Residential
   CD-R5   Conditional Use Multi-Family Residential
   MHR   Manufactured Housing Residential
   B1   Business District
   B2   Business District
   (B)   Conditional Use District Zoning is eliminated and existing Conditional
Use District Zoning converts to Conditional District on January 1, 2021. (G.S.
§ 160D-703; S.L. 2019-111, §
2.9(b).)
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04 DESCRIPTIONS AND PURPOSE OF ZONING.
   The following general statements describe the various zoning districts
established by the town unified development ordinance. Table 4-1, Use Table
lists the specific land uses and activities of each.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.01 CON-D CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   This district is established to protect the floodplain, coastal waters and
areas of environmental concern of the Coastal Area Management Act, being G.S.
§§ 113A-100 et seq. It is further the intent that intensive use of the land not
be permitted and that only water-dependent uses be permitted in this district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.02 R-A RESIDENTIAL-AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to set aside and protect those lands which
are primarily suited for agriculture, forestry, wetlands and agricultural-
related uses.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.03 R-20 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to allow single-family only (low-density)
residential and recreational uses to be protected from undesirable future
development and residential developments not having central water and sewer
will occur in sufficiently low density to ensure a healthful environment.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.04 R-15 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district shall be to provide for single-family and
duplex residential developments where central water or central sewer, but not
both are available.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.05 R-10 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district shall be to provide for single-family and
multi-family residential developments where both central water and central
sewer are available.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.06 R-8 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district shall be to provide for single-family and
multi-family residential developments where both central water and central
sewer are available.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.07 R-5 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   The purpose of this district shall be to provide for single-family and
multi-family residential developments where both central water and central
sewer are available.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.08 MHR MANUFACTURED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL.
   The purpose of this district shall be to provide for single and multi-family
dwellings and existing manufactured housing on individual lots (Wind Zone 3,
Exposure D; see State Regulations for Manufactured Homes Code) where both
central water and central sewer are available. Any existing manufactured
housing parks (manufactured home parks) shall be permitted to continue as
nonconforming uses. Manufactured homes shall not be placed within the high
hazard flood area unless they are within manufactured home parks existing as of
June 1, 1979, pursuant to NCAC 15A07H.0306, as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.09 B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This district is established as a district in which the principal use of
land is for the retailing of both perishable and durable goods, provision of
commercial services to surrounding areas and neighborhoods and the provision of
services to visitors. In promoting the general purpose of this ordinance, the
specific intent of this district is:
   (A)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the land for
commercial and service uses, particularly those which serve the community or
neighborhood;
   (B)   To provide for the orderly expansion of such uses within this
district, as designated on the zoning map;
   (C)   To prohibit residential use of the land and to prohibit any other use
which would substantially interfere with the development or continuation of the
business uses in the district; and
   (D)   To discourage the continuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provision of this district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.04.10 B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The purpose of this district is to provide an area for fishing piers and
fish houses.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.05 COASTAL FOREST OVERLAY DISTRICT (CFOD).
   The purpose of this district is to preserve and protect the remaining
maritime forests which are recognized as essential to Topsail Island’s
ecosystem. They provide wildlife habitat, stabilization of soil and sand, and
are a vital link in natural storm water management through absorption. This
natural management acts as a filter necessary to maintaining the health and
quality of pristine waters.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The CFOD shall apply to all properties in the town.
      (2)   The requirements of the CFOD shall be in addition to and apply to
all zoning districts.
      (3)   The development of all uses permitted by right or by a special use
permit in the underlying district shall be subject to the requirements of the
CFOD and the underlying zoning district. In the event of a conflict of between
the CFOD and the underlying district the CFOD regulations shall apply. If
requirements for a particular requirement are not addressed in the CFOD, then
the requirements of the underlying regulations shall apply.
   (B)   Design standards. Development shall be designed to protect the
continuing growth of native trees. In doing so, the following conditions shall
be met.
      (1)   No alteration of a lot or building site shall take place without a
zoning permit.
      (2)   All CFOD requirements shall apply to new and existing lots.
      (3)   The area of disturbance is the proposed or existing structure
footprint plus the six feet in each direction. Trees are allowed to be removed
within the area of disturbance.
      (4)   All trees protected by this ordinance nine inches in circumference
measured four feet from the ground may not be removed outside the area of
disturbance.
      (5)   Dead and diseased trees may be removed.
      (6)   Pervious materials shall be used for the construction of any
surfaces located outside the footprint of the principal structure and any
accessory buildings allowed. (Commercial development and roads are exempt from
this requirement). Pervious materials are, but not limited to, pervious
concrete, pervious asphalt, slate gravel, river rock, slatted wood and other
similar materials or products designed to allow water to pass through.
      (7)   Driveway design shall minimize land disturbance as much as possible
in order to maximize natural areas.
      (8)   No clear cutting of lots is permitted.
   (C)   Site plan. Before development of a lot an applicant must submit a site
plan to the zoning office for review and approval. Developing building sites in
the CFOD requires maximal preservation of trees and vegetation. The site plan
shall show the following:
      (1)   All requirements for a building permit application;
      (2)   All trees outside the area of disturbance greater or equal to nine
inches in circumference measured four feet from the ground;
      (3)   Location of all structures, utilities, septic tanks, driveways and
parking areas; and
      (4)   Location of all natural areas.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Trees removed, other than those permitted under this ordinance,
shall be replaced by a quantity of trees totaling the circumference of the tree
removed (i.e., six three-inch in circumference trees may replace one 18-inch
tree). Replacement trees are not to be less than three inches in circumference,
measured four feet from the ground.
      (2)   Any lot cleared before submitting a site plan shall be assessed a
penalty of one replacement tree, which must be at least three inches in
circumference measured four feet from the ground, per foot of road frontage. A
50-foot lot would require 50 trees for replacement.
   (E)   Species of trees protected. Trees protected by this ordinance include
all native oak, pine, cedar, maple, wax myrtle and all others indigenous to the
area.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.06 INTERPRETATION OF MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any district
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Use of property lines. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following property lines, such lot lines shall be construed as
boundary lines.
   (B)   Use of centerlines. Where streets, highways, railroads, watercourses
and similar areas with width are indicated as the district boundary, the actual
district boundary line shall be the center line of such area.
   (C)   Use of right-of-way. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following street, highway and railroad right-of-way lines, such
right-of-way lines shall be construed as boundary lines.
   (D)   Use of the scale. In un-subdivided property or where a zone boundary
divides a lot, the location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by
dimensions, shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (E)   Street vacation. Where any street or alley is hereafter officially
vacated or abandoned, the zoning district regulations applicable to each parcel
of abutting property shall apply to that portion of such street or alley
abandonment.
   (F)   Board of Adjustment. In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board
of Adjustment shall interpret the intent of the map as to location of such
boundaries.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.07 PROCEDURES FOR CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal of the
regulations or district boundaries established by this ordinance may be
initiated in these ways:
      (1)   The Board of Aldermen may recommend a change, in which case the
proposed change is reviewed by the Planning Board as described below in §
3.07;
      (2)   The Planning Board may initiate a change, and review the proposed
change as described below in §
3.07; or
      (3)   A petition (see appendix for petition) by an interested person
shall be submitted to the Board of Aldermen and reviewed by the Planning Board
as described in §
3.07 below.
   (B)   In all cases the Planning Board shall consider the merit of the
proposed change and make a recommendation to the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   In no case shall final action by the Board of Aldermen be taken on
amending, changing, supplementing, modifying or repealing the regulations or
district boundaries hereby established until a public hearing has been held by
the Board of Aldermen at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2006; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08 ACTION BY THE APPLICANT.
§ 3.08.01 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Proposed changes or amendments to the zoning map may be initiated by
the Board of Aldermen, Planning Board, town administration, Board of Adjustment
or by the owner(s) or any other interested party.
   (B)   Proposed amendments to the text of the ordinance may be initiated by
any interested party.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.02 APPLICATION (PETITION).
   An application (petition) for any change or amendment shall be provided by
the Planning Department. Such application shall be filed not later than 30 days
prior to the meeting of the Planning Board at which the application is to be
considered.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.03 FEES.
   Any non-governmental applicant shall pay a non-refundable fee, according to
the schedule adopted by the Town Board of Aldermen, to the town for each
application for an amendment, to cover costs of advertising and other
administrative expenses involved.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.04 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES.
   When a change in the zoning classification of a piece of property is
requested, the applicant shall provide to the Zoning Administrator a list of
names and addresses, as obtained from the county tax listings and tax abstract,
of all adjacent property owners and all owners of property within the area
under consideration for rezoning along with one set of business (#10) envelopes
stamped with a first class stamp and addressed to each person on the list.
These addressed envelopes and the list shall be submitted at least eight work
days prior to the public hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall then mail
notices of the public hearing to each person on the list and shall certify that
fact to the Board of Aldermen. Such certification shall be deemed conclusive in
the absence of fraud. A second set of identically prepared envelopes shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator if the Planning Board recommends denial
of the request and the applicant wishes to appeal to the Board of Aldermen.
This second set shall be submitted at least eight work days prior to the
meeting at which the Board of Aldermen is to review the request and shall be
handled in the same way by the Zoning Administrator.
(G.S. § 160A-384) (Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.05 RE-APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   With the exception of requests originating with the Board of Aldermen,
Planning Board, Board of Adjustment or town administration, an application for
any rezoning of the same property or any application for the same amendment to
the UDO text shall be permitted only once within any six-month period. The
Board of Aldermen, by four-fifths affirmative vote of its total membership, may
waive this restriction if it finds any emergency exists.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.06 ACTION BY THE PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Every proposed amendment, supplement, change, modification or repeal
of this ordinance shall be referred to the Planning Board for its
recommendation and written report to the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The following policy guidelines shall be followed by the Planning
Board concerning zoning amendments and no proposed zoning amendment will
receive favorable recommendation unless:
      (1)   The proposal will place all property similarly situated in the area
in the same category, or in appropriate complementary categories;
      (2)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under the
proposed district classification would be in the general public interest and
not merely in the interest of an individual or small group;
      (3)   There is convincing demonstration that all uses permitted under the
proposed district classification would be appropriate in the area included in
the proposed change (when a new district designation is assigned, any use
permitted in the district is allowable, so long as it meets district
requirements, and not merely uses which applicants state they intend to make of
the property involved);
      (4)   There is convincing demonstration that the character of the
neighborhood will not be materially and adversely affected by any use permitted
in the proposed change; or
      (5)   The proposed change is in accord with any land use plan and sound
planning principles.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.08.07 ACTION BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   (A)   Before taking such lawful action as it may deem advisable, the Board
of Aldermen shall conduct a public hearing and consider the Planning Board’s
recommendations on each proposed zoning amendment.
   (B)   Notice of any public hearing shall be published (the notice shall be
published for the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days
before the date fixed for the hearing) in a newspaper of general circulation in
the town at least once each week for two successive weeks prior to the hearing
according to G.S. § 160A-364 and by mailing notices to adjoining property
owners in the envelopes provided by the applicant according to G.S. § 160A-384.
Notice may also be made by posting the property concerned.
   (C)   The applicant, the Planning Board, and the Zoning Administrator shall
be given written copies of the board’s decision and the reasons therefor.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 3.09 WITHDRAWAL OF THE APPLICATION.
   Any application submitted in accordance with the provisions of §
3.05 for the purpose of amending the regulations or district boundaries
established by this ordinance may be withdrawn at any time, but fees are non-
refundable.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
ARTICLE 4: USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
4.01   Definition of permitted uses and special uses
   
4.02   Permitted and special uses
   
4.03   Use specific standards
   
4.03.01   Condominium development
   
4.03.02   Manufactured homes
   
4.03.03   Townhouse development
   
4.03.04   Bed and breakfasts
   
4.03.05   Bridges, private
   
4.03.06   Enclosure of outside storage and service areas
   
4.03.07   Fences
   
4.03.08   Occupations
   
4.03.09   Outdoor swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
4.03.10   Adult businesses
   
4.03.11   Operating standards for existing travel trailer parks
   
4.03.12   Club, lodge, swim and tennis club, country club, beach club or
retreat center
   
4.03.13   Fairgrounds and carnival activities
   
4.03.14   Fishing piers
   
4.03.15   Golf course (par 3 or more)
   
4.03.16   Mobile offices, temporary
   
4.03.17   Wireless telecommunications tower
   
4.03.18   Parks and recreational open space
   
4.03.19   Public administration (government facilities)
   
4.03.20   Duplex
   
4.03.21   Single-family
   
4.03.22   Ice vending machine
   
4.03.23   Agricultural uses
   
4.03.24   Docks, piers and floating walkways
§ 4.01 DEFINITION OF PERMITTED USES AND SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Permitted use. A use permitted in one or more zoning districts as a
matter of right; provided, the land and structures and the use itself otherwise
meet the remaining requirements of this ordinance. Uses permitted in the
various districts are indicated by a “P” mark in the appropriate column(s) of
Table 4.1. Permitted uses are required to comply with all applicable
requirements of § 4.2, Use-Specific Standards, and all other applicable
standards of this ordinance.
   (B)   Special use. A use within one or more zoning districts that is not a
use by right, but that is required to meet the terms, conditions and
requirements for special uses and for which a special use permit is required to
have been issued by the Board of Aldermen. Special uses that may be allowed in
the various districts are indicated by an “S” mark in the appropriate column(s)
of Table 4.1. Permitted uses are required to comply with all applicable
requirements of § 4.2, Use-Specific Standards, and Article 5, Density,
Intensity and Dimensional Standards, unless any such requirement is modified or
waived by the Board of Aldermen in the special use permit, as well as with all
other applicable standards of this ordinance.
   (C)   Prohibited use. Any use that is not indicated by a “P” or an “S” for a
specific zoning district in Table 4.1 is a prohibited use in that district, and
is indicated by an empty cell in the table.
   (D)   Overlay districts. Permitted and special uses in each overlay zoning
district are the same as those available in that portion of the base district
(s) in which the overlay applies, unless the terms of the overlay zoning
district specifically prohibit the use. In addition, because of site-specific
conditions or other factors, the terms and provisions of overlay districts may
restrict or prohibit the availability or practicability of a use listed as a
permitted or special use one or more base districts in Table 4.1. Applicants
are urged to review all applicable overlay district provisions in conjunction
with the provisions of this article.
   (E)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses are defined in Article 11. Such uses
may only exist so long as the principal use of the property is in existence and
not in violation of this ordinance. Accessory uses may not be established
before a principal use is in operation, and may not continue after the
principal use has ceased operation.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.02 PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES.
   Permitted and special uses for each of the zoning districts and cross-
references to use-specific standards applicable to some uses are identified in
Table 4-1. Uses which are prohibited within a district are indicated by a blank
space or are not listed. Italicized terms are defined in Article 11.
Table 4-1 Use Table
Use MHR R5 R8 R10 R15 R20 RA COND B1 B2 Use Specific Standard
Table 4-1 Use Table
Use                   MHR R5 R8 R10 R15 R20 RA COND B1 B2 Use Specific Standard
Residential use
Condominium           S   S  S  S                         4.03.01
Duplex 10 bedrooms or
less, or less than    P   P  P  P   P
5,000 heated sq. ft.
Duplex greater than
10 bedrooms and 5,000 S   S  S  S   S                     4.03.20
heated sq. ft.
Manufactured home     P                                   4.03.02
Planned unit          S   S  S  S   S   S   S       S  S  2.06.03,
development                                               6.02
Single-family 8
bedrooms or less, or  P   P  P  P   P   P   P
less than 5,000
heated sq. ft.
Single-family greater
than 8 bedrooms and   S   S  S  S   S   S   S             4.03.21
5,000 heated sq. ft.
Townhouse             S   S  S  S                         4.03.03
Accessory use
Bed and breakfast     P   P  P  P   P   P   P             4.03.04
Boat lift             P   P  P  P   P   P   P
Boat ramp, private    P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P
Bridge, private       S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S  4.03.05
Bulkhead              P   P  P  P   P   P   P       S  S
Cross-over
(accessory,           P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P
principal)
Deck                  P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Dock, pier, floating
walkways (accessory,  P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  4.03.24
principal)
Elevator, dumbwaiter  P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Enclosure or outside
storage and service   P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P  4.03.05
areas
EVCS Level 1          P   P  P  P   P   P   P             Article 11
                                                          Definitions
EVCS Level 2          P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P  Article 11
                                                          Definitions
Fence                 P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  4.03.06
Garage, attached or   P   P  P  P   P   P   P
detached
Garage apartment/
guest house
Gazebo                P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Home occupation       P   P  P  P   P   P   P             4.03.08
Parking lot
Retaining wall        P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Sign                  P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  Art. 8
Storage shed          P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Swimming pools, spas  P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P  4.03.09
and hot tubs
Tennis court
(accessory,           P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
principal)
Walkway, boardwalk    P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P
Water dependent                                           Art. 11 Definitions;
structures (principle P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  15A NCAC 02B.02.02
use, accessory use)
Windmills             S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S
Commercial use
Adult establishments                                P  P  4.03.10
Airports and                                A       S  S
heliports
Alcoholic beverages,
packaged retail sales                               S  S
(accessory,
principal)
Apparel sales                                       P  P
(department store)
Assembly halls (gyms,
stadiums and the                                    S  S
like)
Auction houses                                      S  S
(general merchandise)
Bakery                                              P  P
Bank, savings and
loan, financial                                     P  P
activity
Barber, beauty shop,                                P  P
day spa
Bicycle rental, sales                               P  P
and repairs
Billboard
Boat launch/ramp                                    S  S
Boats, canoes and
kayaks sales, service                               S
and rental
Campground (tents)                                  S  S
Campground (travel
trailer parks or                                          4.03.11
recreation vehicle
parks)
Clinic service
(medical, dental,                                   P  P
therapeutic massage)
Club or lodge, swim
and tennis club,
country club, beach
club, yacht club, all S   S  S  S   S   S   S       S  S  4.03.12
other private
recreation clubs,
retreat center
Community boating     S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S
facility
Convalescent/nursing                                S  S
homes
Convenience store                                   P  P
Day care center                                     S  S
(adult or children)
Dry cleaning and                                    S  S
laundry service
EVCS Level 3                                        P  P  4.03 XX
Fairground and                              S       S  S  4.03.13
carnival activities
Fishing pier                                           S  4.03.14
Florist shop                                        P  P
Food sales, retail                                  P  P
Golf course           S   S  S  S   S   S   S       S  S  4.03.15
Golf, miniature                                     P  P
Hardware, paint and                                 P  P
garden supply sales
Home furnishings and                                P  P
appliance sales
Hotels, motel, hotel                                S  S
minium
Ice vending machine                                 P     4.03.22
Jewelry sales and                                   P  P
repair
Lock and gunsmith                                   P  P
Marina
Mobile offices        P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P  4.03.16
(temporary)
Newsstands
(principal,                                         P  P
accessory)
Nursery (plants)                            P       P  P
Office(s)                                           P  P
Optician and optical                                P  P
supply sales
Parking lots          S   S  S  S   S   S   S       S  S
(principal)
Pawnshop                                            P  P
Pharmacy                                            P  P
Photography,                                        P  P
commercial
Physical fitness                                    P  P
center, gym
Pool halls game                                     P  P
rooms, video, arcade
Printing and
reproduction                                        P  P
establishment
Restaurant                                          P  P
Shopping center                                     P  P
Skating rink                                        P  P
Specialty market                                    S  S
Storage, warehouse,                                 P  P
mini
Swimming pools                                      S  S  4.03.09
(commercial/public)
Taxi service
(includes office/                                   P  P
stand)
Telecommunications    S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S  4.03.17
tower, wireless
Theaters, indoor                                    P  P
Theaters, outdoor                                   S  S
Variety, gift and                                   P  P
hobby supply sales
Veterinary services,                                P  P
kennel
Windmills             S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S
Wireless tower        P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P  4.03.18
antenna (co-location)
Governmental/public
Boat ramp (public)                                  S  S
Church                P   P  P  P   P   P   P       P  P
Educational services  S   S  S  S   S   S   S       S  S
Park and recreational P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  4.03.19
open space
Postal service                                      P  P
Public
administration/
government facilities P   P  P  P   P   P   P  P    P  P  4.03.20
(ambulance service;
police and fire
stations)
Utilities             S   S  S  S   S   S   S  S    S  S
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2013-5, passed 8-1-2013; Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-5-
2014; Ord. 2014-6, passed 6-5-2014; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-5-2017; Ord. passed
7-1-2021; Ord. passed 7-1-2021; Ord. passed 7-6-2022; Ord. passed 4-5-2023)
§ 4.03 USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The numbered paragraphs in this §
4.03 contain use-specific standards for certain designated permitted and
special uses listed in Table 4-2. Each subsection relates to a notation in the
right-hand column of Table 4-2 and applies to the use(s) on the same line as
the notation. Each subsection contains application requirements, conditions,
procedures and/or requirements for the permitted or special use to which this
subsection applies to that are in addition to other requirements and conditions
contained in this ordinance, and apply regardless of whether the use is a
permitted or a special use.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.01 CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Generally. In a condominium development, individual owners hold title
to the interior of their unit and all owners own the common areas of buildings
and property together. The following information must be adhered to and
submitted in order to have an application for a special use permit considered
by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Density. See Table 5-1, Dimensional Requirements for square footage
requirements applicable to each zoning district where condominium developments
are permitted.
   (C)   Development plan. A plan of the proposed development shall be
submitted containing the following elements:
      (1)   Approval of NTBFD The unit designation of each unit and a statement
of its location, approximate area, number of rooms and immediate common area to
which it has access and any other data necessary for its proper identification;
      (2)   Meet maximum impervious surface limit. Description of the general
common areas and facilities as defined in the North Carolina Unit Ownership
Act, being G.S. Ch. 47A and the proportionate interest of each unit owner
therein;
      (3)   Require central sewer and central water. Location and amount of
open space and recreation area which shall be a minimum of 10% of the area of
the development minus any undevelopable land;
      (4)   Description of all boundary lines between portions of the
structures designed for different ownership;
      (5)   Description of all garages, balconies, patios and the like, which
form a part of each unit;
      (6)   Description of any special common areas and facilities stating what
units shall share the same and in what proportion;
      (7)   Proposed provision for storm drainage and sanitary sewer, approved
by a state certified registered engineer;
      (8)   Public or private easements or rights-of-way adjoining or
intersecting the property;
      (9)   Proposed solid waste storage facilities and description of
screening;
      (10)   Proposed water system and firefighting facilities such as hydrants
or sprinkler connections;
      (11)   Types of surfacing, slope, grade and cross section of drives,
sidewalks and the like (private streets shall be designed to assure proper
access and turn around for service and emergency vehicles);
      (12)   The location and amount of parking spaces pursuant to Table 6-5,
Parking Requirements;
      (13)   Landscaping and screening: a landscaping plan showing buffers
between any residential districts as well as perimeter landscaping for the
development. Also, location and heights of all fences and walls;
      (14)   Lighting plan: all lighting shall be directed away from
residentially zoned areas. The location and height of all lighting shall be
shown;
      (15)   All plans showing utility construction details must meet the
current specifications of the town;
      (16)   Size and proposed location of any signs along the public street;
      (17)   All existing buildings and structures within 100 feet;
      (18)   Setbacks from public street rights-of-way shall be the same as
required by the zoning district where the development is located; and
      (19)   No declaration and plan shall be recorded until all final boundary
descriptions have been added to the plan and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Timing. Proposed schedule of development likely to be followed.
   (E)   Legal documentation. The applicant shall submit the following
documents which shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and approved by
the Board of Aldermen before the final plat is recorded with the Register of
Deeds.
      (1)   Declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions. This
declaration shall be a complete legal document establishing a unit ownership
development as prescribed in the North Carolina Unit Ownership Act. It shall
also contain proposed restrictions and covenants for the common area and
residential sites. No unit shall be conveyed until the declaration and plan
have been reviewed by the Planning Director and approved by the Board of
Aldermen and recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds along with
the final plat.
      (2)   Articles of incorporation of homeowners association.
         (a)   Before the final plat is recorded, the developer shall submit a
copy of the articles of incorporation of the homeowners association, along with
evidence that the articles have been filed and approved by the Secretary of
State. The articles shall require membership in the association for each
original purchaser and each successive purchaser of a residential site or unit.
The articles shall also provide for control of the development by the
homeowners association when over 50% of the dwelling units are sold.
         (b)   The homeowners association shall be responsible for payment of
premiums for liability insurance, local taxes, maintenance for recreational and
other facilities located on the common areas, payment of assessments for public
and private capital improvements made to or for the benefit of the common
areas, maintenance and repair to the exterior of all attached residences
located within the development or other common area facilities. The homeowners
association shall be empowered to assess owners of residential sites within the
development for the payment of these expenditures, and any such assessment not
paid by the owner shall constitute a lien on the residence of the owner.
         (c)   It shall be further provided that upon default by the homeowners
association in the payment to the governmental authority of any ad valorem
taxes levied against the common areas or assessments for a period of six
months, then each owner of a residential site in the development shall become
obligated to pay to the taxing or assessing governmental authority a portion of
such taxes or assessments in an amount determined by dividing the total taxes
and/or assessments due to the governmental authority by the total number of
residential sites in the development. If the sum is not paid by the owner
within 30 days following receipt of notice of the amount due, then the sum
shall become a continuing lien on the residence of the then owner, his or her
heirs, governmental authority may either bring an action at law against the
owner obligated to pay the same or may elect to foreclose the lien against the
residence of the owner.
      (3)   Bylaws of homeowners association. The bylaws of the homeowners
association shall provide for annual meetings, election of officers, an annual
budget showing monthly assessments set at a sufficient level to insure success
of the association, and an annual financial accounting distributed to all
members.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.02 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   A manufactured home (formerly known as a mobile home) is built to the
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) and displays a
red certification label on the exterior of each transportable section.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-5-2017)
§ 4.03.03 TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT.
   In a townhouse development a group of adjoining self-contained units share
common walls (either two one-hour fire walls or one two-hour fire wall) with
the adjacent units, but stand on individual lots. Owners have title to the unit
and lot that they occupy and a fractional interest in the building exteriors
and common areas which generally contain drives, walks and open space.
   (A)   Density. See Table 5-1, Dimensional Requirements for square footage
requirements applicable to each zoning district where condominium developments
are permitted.
   (B)   Submission requirements. See §
4.03.01, Condominium Development (above). Submission requirements to obtain a
special use permit for a townhouse development are the same as for condominium
developments although the form of ownership and structural requirements are
different.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.04 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   The following are the specific standards for bed and breakfasts.
   (A)   The use is the permanent, principal residence of the owner.
   (B)   A bed and breakfast can only be established in a site-built, single-
family dwelling and there can be no substantial changes to the exterior that
would alter the residential character of the property.
   (C)   Meals served on the premises shall be only for overnight guests of the
facility.
   (D)   No cooking facilities shall be established in individual rooms.
   (E)   Provision for off-street parking pursuant to Table 6-5, Parking
Requirements.
   (F)   Exterior signs shall not exceed six square feet for each a
freestanding and attached sign.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.05 BRIDGES, PRIVATE.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   Each applicant requesting a permit under this article shall submit
bridge plan and profile sheet signed and sealed by appropriate licensed
professionals with a complete application. The planning department may require
other information to be necessary to assess compliance with this article.
      (2)   In addition to the design standards established herein, all plans
shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
         (a)   Federal requirements. All bridges must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the USACE and any other agency of the federal
government with the authority to regulate development.
         (b)   State requirements. The rules and regulations of the State
Department of Transportation relating to safety of access and the preservation
of the public interest and investment in the streets if the subdivision or any
lot contained therein abuts a state trunk highway or connecting street. The
State Division of Coastal Management shall review the application to determine
the need for any state authorization.
         (c)   ONWASA policies. The applicable policies of the Onslow Water and
Sewer Authority (ONWASA).
         (d)   Building codes.
            i.)   A building permit is required when constructing a private
bridge. To ensure the structural integrity of bridges, the owner of a bridge
shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in
applicable federal, state and local building codes and regulations.
            ii.)   Where a bridge or elevated surface is part of a fire
apparatus road, the bridge shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with AASHTO-HB-17. Bridges and elevated surfaces shall be designed for a live
load sufficient to carry the imposed loads of fire apparatus. Vehicle load
limits shall be posted in both entrances to bridges when required by the fire
code official. Where elevated surfaces designed for emergency vehicle use are
adjacent to surfaces which are not designed for such use, approved barriers,
approved signs or both shall be installed and maintained when required by the
fire code official.
         (e)   Other laws. Any other law presently applicable or subsequently
to be enacted.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide an engineer’s written certification of
compliance.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide copies of its maintenance agreement.
   (B)   Review. Plans shall be reviewed by:
      (1)   State Division of Coastal Management to determine the need for any
state authorization. Soil disturbances shall be avoided or minimized in the
wetlands. At no time will wetlands be filled or excavated during construction;
      (2)   United States Army Corps of Engineers;
      (3)   Onslow Water and Sewer Authority (ONWASA) for approval of all taps
from main water supply;
      (4)   Town Fire Marshal to determine compliance with the following fire
safety requirements:
         (a)   Private bridges 500 feet or less shall be 20 feet in width and
rated a minimum of 25 tons for fire apparatus and shall have a dry firefighting
line of six-inch schedule 120 PVC with two risers each with a double two and
one-half-inch IMFT fire hose connection (one riser at each end of bridge). Fire
hydrant shall be installed within 100 feet of the riser from the mainland side
of the bridge by the contractor and inspected by Onslow Water and Sewer
Authority (ONWASA) and shall have dry firefighting line of no less than six
inches schedule 120 PVC with two risers each with a dry fire hydrant (Muller
Brand), shall be color coded different from main fire hydrants (one dry hydrant
at each end of bridge.) Fire hydrant (Muller Brand) shall be installed off the
present water main near the base of the bridge within 100 feet of the riser
from the mainland side of the bridge by the contractor and shall be inspected
by ONWASA.
         (b)   Placement of fire hydrants required;
         (c)   A planned development with an eight-inch water main supply to
the properties that requires a bridge that meets the requirement set forth,
would not require a dry firefighting line.
   (C)   Final inspection. Final inspection with project engineer and
contractor shall be conducted on site by Town Building Codes Administrator,
Zoning Administrator and Fire Chief.
   (D)   Maintenance. Private bridges and dry fire line shall be maintained by
property owners.
   (E)   Annual inspections. All private bridges shall be inspected on an
annual basis and immediately after a hurricane or other acts of nature that
impact the town. The inspection shall be conducted by a private certified
engineer that has a background in the bridge construction. The property owner
shall be responsible for providing a copy of the bridge inspection report to
the town building inspections department.
   (F)   Disclosure statement. A disclosure statement shall be made to the
property owners and /or homeowners association regarding bridge inspection. A
disclosure statement shall be placed in all homeowners association covenants
and bylaws and disclosure to all property owners that homeowners association
and property owners are responsible for all bridge construction, maintenance,
repair and annual inspections.
   (G)   Required yearly report. The owner of each such bridge shall submit a
certification by a licensed professional engineer to the Town Building
Inspections Department on the anniversary of the final inspection. Failure to
provide annual certification will be accessed a $500 per day fine after 30 days
and may result in loss of fire protection insurance rating.
   (H)   Review fees. Any out-of-pocket costs incurred for review by a licensed
engineer of any of the above required information shall be paid by the
applicant. The town accepts no responsibility for inspection cost for private
bridges or private roadways.
   (I)   Requests for acceptance to town or state system. Private bridges shall
be constructed in accordance with AASHTO-HB-17 and be in accordance with the
2012 North Carolina Fire Code, § 503.2.6 (as amended). Bridges and elevated
surfaces prior to a request for the bridge to be accepted and maintained by the
town or state.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2008; Ord. passed 5-7-2009; Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.06 ENCLOSURE OF OUTSIDE STORAGE AND SERVICE AREAS.
   (A)   In residential districts, all outside storage of governmental or
commercial inventory or equipment or any other use which may represent a hazard
to trespassers must be enclosed with a fence including entrance and exit gates
at least six feet in height.
   (B)   In business districts, all business, servicing, processing or storage
and public utility facilities, except off-street parking and loading, shall be
within completely enclosed buildings, or enclosed by a fence (including
entrance and exit gates) at least six feet in height.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.07 FENCES.
   Ornamental fences not over four feet high may project into or may enclose
any front or side yard, and fences enclosing rear yards may be six feet high.
In nonresidential districts, an open fence through which clear vision is
possible from one side to the other on a horizontal plane, and such openings
occupy 50% or more of the area of the fence, may be erected in the rear yard to
a maximum height of ten feet. Fences intended solely for enclosure of tennis
courts, batting cages or other similar structures shall be exempt from the
maximum height requirements of this section. In no event shall any electrified
or barbed wire fence be erected or retained. Fences must be maintained in sound
condition such that they are fully standing. No fence shall be erected in any
location that interferes with the line-of-sight of motorists using public or
private roadways. A zoning permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator for any fence erected in the town.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.08 OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted only as an accessory use and shall be
permitted subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   No display of products shall be visible from the street.
   (B)   No mechanical equipment shall be installed or used except such that is
normally used for domestic, professional or hobby purposes and which does not
cause noise or other interference in radio and television reception.
   (C)   There must be no outdoor storage or visible evidence of equipment or
materials used in the home occupation, excepting equipment or materials of a
type and quantity that could reasonably be associated with the principal
residential use.
   (D)   No accessory buildings or outside storage shall be used in connection
with the home occupation.
   (E)   Not over 25% of the total actual floor area shall be used for a home
occupation.
   (F)   Only residents of the home can be engaged in the home occupation.
   (G)   Traffic generation shall not exceed the traffic volumes generated by
nearby residents.
   (H)   Business identification signs no larger than four square feet are
permitted.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 4.03.09 OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   Setbacks. All swimming pools shall meet the following requirements, in
addition to setbacks and other requirements specified elsewhere:
      (1)   Swimming pools may be permitted consistent landward of the ocean
hazard setback for development as determined by the Division of Coastal
Management I 15A NCAC 07H.0306, and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or
allow a swimming pool to be a nuisance as defined herein.
      (2)   Pools and spas are allowed adjacent to coastal buildings only if
these amenities will not act as obstructions that lead to damage to nearby
buildings. Pools and spas must be installed in-ground (either frangible or
immovable) or completely elevated above the DFE. This constraint applies where
the ground level is below, at or above the DFE. Above-ground pools within the
DFE are prohibited.
   (C)   Fence required; gates. All swimming pools shall be completely
surrounded by a fence not less than four feet in height. If a fence is erected,
the width between any opening or pickets shall not exceed four inches. Openings
in any such fence, gate, or wall may not exceed four inches. The wall(s) of a
principal or accessory building may be used to meet this enclosure requirement.
All gates or doors opening through such fence, wall, house or building shall
have self-closing and self-latching devices for keeping the gate or door closed
at all times when not in actual use. Fence gates shall open outward away from
the swimming pool.
   (D)   Modifications and exceptions. The Administrator may make modifications
in writing with respect to the height, nature or location of the fence, wall,
gates or latches, in individual cases, upon a showing of good cause provided
the protection as sought hereunder is not reduced thereby. The Administrator
may permit in writing other protective devices or structures to be used so long
as the degree of protection afforded by the substitute devices or structures is
not less than the protection afforded by the wall, fence, gate and latch
described herein.
   (E)   Spas and hot tubs; covers. Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover must
comply with ASTM F 1346 as required in Appendix G of the State Building Code
and shall be exempt from § 7-132(b)4. Covers must be closed and locked when the
spa or hot tub is not in use.
(Ord. passed 9-24-2008; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2017-2, passed 2-1-2017;
Ord. 2017-4, passed 5-3-2017; Ord. passed 1-8-2025) Penalty, see §
10.06
§ 4.03.10 ADULT BUSINESSES.
   Adult entertainment establishments may be located within the B-1 zoning
district identified on the table of permitted uses, subject to requirements of
that district, and provided that:
   (A)   Each adult entertainment establishment shall be located a minimum of
1,500 feet from any existing adult entertainment establishments. Such
measurement shall be the horizontal distance between the nearest property lines
of the proposed and existing adult entertainment establishments;
   (B)   Each adult entertainment establishment shall be located a minimum of
1,500 feet from any residential or tourist zoned areas, church, school, public
or private park or recreational facility. Such measurements shall be the
horizontal distance between the nearest property line of the proposed adult
entertainment establishment and the nearest residential or tourist zoning line
or property line of any place of worship, school, public or private park or
recreational facility; and
   (C)   All windows, doors, openings, entries and the like must be located,
covered, screened or otherwise treated so that views into the interior of the
establishment are not possible from any public or semi-public area, street or
way.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 4.03.11 OPERATING STANDARDS FOR EXISTING TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   It is the intent of this section to set minimum standards for existing
campgrounds which have been developed for occupancy on a temporary basis. A
travel trailer or recreational vehicle is not a residential structure, but is a
vehicle in which people live temporarily. Throughout this section, use of
either of the phrases “travel trailer” or “recreational vehicle” shall be
deemed to include both as defined in Article 11, Definitions.
   (A)   Sanitation facilities. All toilet, shower, lavatory and laundry
facilities, provided:
      (1)   Shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition;
      (2)   Shall be kept in good repair;
      (3)   Shall be safely and adequately lighted;
      (4)   Shall be easily accessible and conveniently located to all spaces;
      (5)   Shall be constructed according to applicable building codes and
maintained in compliance with all rules and regulations of the County Health
Department; and
      (6)   Shall conform to any and all applicable laws of the town, the
county and the state.
   (B)   Safe water supply required. A safe, adequate and conveniently located
water supply must be provided within each park. All water supply systems shall
be installed, altered and operated pursuant to the state and County Health
Department guidelines, rules and regulations.
   (C)   Sewage disposal. Each park shall provide and maintain at least one
sewage disposal station (dump station) within the park, operated and
constructed pursuant to all statutes, rules and regulations of the state and
the County Health Department. All sewage disposal systems shall be installed,
altered and operated pursuant to all applicable state statutes, and state and/
or county rules and regulations.
   (D)   Garbage and solid waste. Each park shall provide solid waste storage,
collection and disposal within the park in such as manner as to not create a
health hazard, promote rodents or insect breeding, or cause accidents, a fire
hazard or a nuisance from the odor. In addition, each park shall provide a
minimum of one leak-proof container with a tight-fitting lid and a capacity of
at least 20 gallons for every two spaces within the park. Such containers shall
be no more than 150 feet from any space and stored in such a manner as to
prevent spillage. Alternate methods of solid waste collection may be approved
on an individual park basis by the director of public works. Approval of
alternate systems will not be arbitrarily withheld provided that the collection
systems would appear to the director to comply with the spirit of this
provision.
   (E)   Electrical services. Where electrical service is provided, the
installation and use of such facilities shall conform to all applicable codes
and be subject to inspection by the town building inspector.
   (F)   Manufactured homes prohibited. It shall be unlawful for a person to
park or store a manufactured home in a travel trailer park.
   (G)   Road worthiness required at all times. Each park shall maintain a
permanent record book which shall be available during regular business hours of
the park for inspection by the Town Building Inspector, containing the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of owners of each travel trailer or recreational
vehicle located within the park at any point in time;
      (2)   Date when the vehicle was parked in its current location;
      (3)   License plate numbers for each vehicle. Every travel trailer or
recreational vehicle located within the town shall maintain a current license
plate issued by the state or the department of motor vehicles or similar agency
within the state where the vehicle is registered;
      (4)   A notation as to the date of each inspection by park officials to
verify that each vehicle is properly licensed and road worthy. ROAD WORTHY
shall be defined as being fully intact so that the vehicle can be removed from
the park within a reasonable time in the event that an emergency situation
arises requiring evacuation of the island. A vehicle that has the tongue or
other device needed to tow the vehicle removed, the axles removed, flat tires,
missing tires or tires in extremely poor condition shall not be considered road
worthy; except that vehicles designed with a quick-release system relating to
the tongue or other towing device, may detach the device and store it within
close proximity of the vehicle. Additionally, vehicles that, for whatever
reason, are neither capable of self-propulsion nor towable by a light-duty
truck as originally designed by the manufacturer shall not be considered road
worthy. Any vehicle requiring a Department of Transportation permit or any
other special permit for towing is specifically prohibited from placement
within any travel trailer park. Additionally, any vehicle in excess of 320
square feet, as measured in the towing mode, is prohibited within any travel
trailer park; and
      (5)   In connection with this subsection, each park in existence at the
time of the adoption of this amendment shall submit a park design to the
Building Inspector within 30 days, indicating the number of spaces within the
park, their relative positions and all streets within the park. All spaces
should be appropriately numbered on the design and following approval of the
numbering system by the building inspector, such numbers must be displayed
within the park.
   (H)   Structural attachments to travel trailers are prohibited. All
structural improvements or additions to a travel trailer or used in connection
with a travel trailer which might contribute to a delay or the inability to
readily remove that or any other trailer from its parking space are prohibited.
In addition, all attachments or improvements to travel trailers or used in
connection with travel trailers not herein specifically permitted are
prohibited.
      (1)   The following attachments or improvements are permitted:
         (a)   Any addition built into the travel trailer by the manufacturer
and designed to fold out or extend from the trailer which does not interfere
with the immediate removal of the trailer or any other travel trailer;
         (b)   Decks which are:
            i.)   Properly anchored;
            ii.)   Not in excess of ten feet by 20 feet, however, alternate
configurations may be approved by the building inspector, on a case by case
basis, provided that no deck may exceed 200 square feet. The approval of
alternate configurations may not be arbitrarily withheld;
            iii.)   No more than ten feet perpendicular to the travel trailer;
            iv.)   No more than 20 feet parallel with the travel trailer;
            v.)   One level, not more than 16 feet from grade;
            vi.)   With or without rails;
            vii.)   Covered by a canvas awning attached to the travel trailer,
but not to the deck itself or a cover certified by a state licensed
professional engineer to meet or exceed the 130 mph wind load requirement of
the State Building Code, and can be capable of being securely stored within one
hour; and
            viii.)   Not placed in such a manner as to interfere with the
removal of the travel trailer that it is used in connection with, or any other
travel trailer.
          (c)   Storage sheds not in excess of seven feet wide, four feet deep,
and eight feet two inches in height, properly anchored, shall not be placed
adjacent to any roadway, and only one shed authorized per lot; and
         (d)   Landscaping or vegetation which does not interfere with the
immediate removal of the travel trailer.
   (I)   Improvement permits required. Any improvements or repair activity
within a travel trailer park or in connection with a travel trailer, whether
within a park or not, may require permits. Any individual contemplating
improvements or repair to or in connection with a travel trailer must consult
the building inspector before commencing any action.
      (1)   Uncovered decks to be used in connection with travel trailers
require building permits. The application for the building permit must include
an engineered drawing of the proposed deck and its position relative to the
travel trailer, the street and any other travel trailer nearby. Building
permits will be issued jointly in the name of the travel trailer owner and the
park and indicate the space number where the activity is approved. No deck
shall impede the ingress or egress of any recreational vehicle either to, from
or within the travel trailer park.
      (2)   All development activities shall comply with all state statutes and
rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act.
      (3)   All development activity located within the town shall conform to
FEMA requirements as set out in the flood damage prevention ordinance and as
amended from time to time by either FEMA or the Board of Aldermen.
   (J)   Compliance. Campgrounds are required to comply with 44 C.F.R. § 60.3,
the 2012 North Carolina Building Code, as amended and this ordinance. New
recreational vehicle parks and the placement of recreational vehicles are not
permitted in the town, pursuant to State Building Code § G601.1, as amended and
the town’s adoption of V Zone construction standards throughout Coastal AE
Zones.
   (K)   Existing campgrounds. Existing campgrounds are classified as a
nonconforming use, subject to the provisions of this section. Expansion of an
existing campground is prohibited pursuant to the State Building Code § G601.1,
as amended and §
9.01.01 of this ordinance. No deviations are allowed without a special use
permit pursuant to §
2.06.04.
   (L)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles may be permitted in
existing campgrounds provided that the unit is on site for fewer than 180
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions.
   (M)   Evacuation. In the interest of public safety due to an impending
hazardous condition, the Board of Aldermen is authorized to call for the
mandatory evacuation of all travel trailers and recreational vehicles. Failure
to obey the mandatory evacuation order shall constitute a violation of this
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2013-3, passed 6-17-2013; Ord. passed 7-6-2022)
§ 4.03.12 CLUB, LODGE, SWIM AND TENNIS CLUB, COUNTRY CLUB, BEACH CLUB OR
RETREAT CENTER.
   (A)   Minimum area. The minimum area must be three-quarters of an acre
(32,670 square feet).
   (B)   Location. If located within a development, the site must be accessible
from at least one main route into and out of the development.
   (C)   Use separation.
      (1)   Fifty-foot minimum distance between clubhouse, swimming pool,
lighted tennis court or athletic field and any adjacent residential property.
      (2)   A pool must be located so as to comply with the minimum CAMA
setback requirements and setback requirements for accessory structures for the
district in which it is located.
   (D)   Security fencing for pool. Outdoor swimming pools must be protected by
a chain link or other similar material fence, a minimum of four feet in height
and equipped with a self-closing and positive self-latching gate provided with
hardware for permanent locking. See also §
4.03.07, Fences.
   (E)   Permanent parking lots must meet the standards of §
6.05, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirement.
   (F)   Service areas will be separated by an opaque screen from the view from
any street and from abutting properties.
   (G)   Hours of operation will be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than
11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.13 FAIRGROUNDS AND CARNIVAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   These activities are permitted only on the condition that their
operation will be temporary in nature.
   (B)   Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate to the
Board of Aldermen that provisions adequate to protect the health and safety of
the public will be provided for:
      (1)   Off-street parking;
      (2)   Bathrooms;
      (3)   Adequate insurance; and
      (4)   Disposal and collection of trash.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.14 FISHING PIERS.
   (A)   Permanent parking lots shall meet the standards of §
6.05, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirement.
   (B)   Buffers may be required pursuant to conditions of §
6.04.
   (C)   Outdoor lighting must not shine directly into yards of a residential
use or into the windows of a residential structure.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.15 GOLF COURSE (PAR 3 OR MORE).
   (A)   Approval required by Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Permanent parking lots must meet the standards of §
6.05, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirement.
   (C)   Service areas will be separated by an opaque screen from the view from
any street and from abutting properties.
   (D)   Chain link and similar fencing materials, if used, must be planted on
exterior side with evergreen shrubs, a minimum three feet in height and six
feet on center at installation.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting must not shine directly into yards of a residential
use or into the windows of a residential structure.
   (F)   Hours of operation will be no earlier than 6:00 a.m. and no later than
11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.16 MOBILE OFFICES, TEMPORARY.
   Mobile offices may be used on a temporary basis for such purposes as
construction offices, bloodmobiles, bookmobiles and traveling museums; however,
such uses must obtain a temporary occupancy permit from the Zoning
Administrator if the use is to last more than 48 hours at one site. Mobile
offices may also be used for other office or business purposes in cases where
the permanent structure has been destroyed through no fault of the owner or
tenant. A temporary occupancy permit must be obtained before the use of the
mobile office is initiated. This occupancy permit shall be valid for a
specified period of time while reconstruction takes place not to exceed six
months and may be renewed at the Planning Director’s discretion based up
construction conditions.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.17 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Intent. In compliance with the Federal Communications Act of 1996,
being 47 USC 201 et seq. and all other relevant state and federal law, rules
and regulations, it is the intent of the town to allow telecommunication
providers the opportunity to locate wireless telecommunications antenna (WTA)
and related facilities within its jurisdiction in order to provide an adequate
level of service to its customers while protecting the health, safety and
welfare of its citizens, and the aesthetics of the community.
      (2)   Applicant’s responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of all
applicants and operators of the telecommunications equipment described herein
to make all possible efforts to maintain consistency with the characteristics
of this family beach community with its long and narrow island, its low
building and vegetation profile, and the community whose primary income is
based upon the attraction of tourists by the town’s qualities and
characteristics as a family beach.
      (3)   Conformance. No WTA or wireless telecommunication support structure
(WTSS) shall be constructed or modified from and after the date of adoption of
this ordinance, except in conformance to the provisions stated in this section.
      (4)   Enforcement. This section may be enforced by any and every remedy
provided by the state statutes as specified in Article 10, Enforcement.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Certification of need. Any applicant(s) requesting a new WTA or
WTSS or any modification to an existing WTA or WTSS shall be required to
provide substantial evidence of need for such structures both in terms of
coverage and capacity.
      (2)   Co-location. WTA placement on an existing structure - either
alternative antenna support structure (AASS) or WTSS - is required unless the
applicant(s) can clearly demonstrate with substantial, clear and convincing
evidence that all co-location opportunities have been exhausted. The town will
attempt to maintain by its own efforts or through its agents an up-to-date
inventory of buildings and structures suitable for WTA installations. Maps are
available showing these locations, as well as relative flood zones and flight
approach vectors to neighboring airfields.
      (3)   New construction provision for co-location. All new WTSS shall be
constructed to permit a minimum of two new WTA. The owner(s) of the new WTSS
shall submit a notarized letter to the town declaring that these additional
sites shall be available to new tenants and shall be negotiated in good faith
at reasonable terms to other providers, and that if good faith negotiations
fail, both parties may be subject to commercial arbitration. They shall further
state that as a condition of sale or transfer of the proposed structure to any
new owner(s), operator(s) or agent(s) that a statement of intent to provide for
shared use of tower shall be required of any new owner(s), operator(s) or agent
(s) and shall be delivered to the town prior to closing.
      (4)   Federal certification. Any new WTA or WTSS, or any modification to
an existing structure that would affect an increase in height shall require
certification in writing by the Federal Aviation Administration that such
addition or modification constitutes “No Hazard” to air navigation both by its
physical structure and by its potential for radio frequency interference with
aviation communication signals. The proposed structure shall also satisfy all
TOW AIR requirements. If operator(s) of the proposed structure can reasonably
show that the Federal Aviation Administration cannot produce such
certification, then certification of “No Hazard” to air navigation from a
certified private agency shall suffice.
      (5)   Certification of compliance with FCC’s Implementation of National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). The applicant(s) for any new WTA or
WTSS or modification to any existing WTA or WTSS are required to file with the
FCC if the structure location is within any definition provided in § 1.1307 of
the NEPA. If the structure is located in any area defined by this Act, full
compliance with the Act’s requirements for environmental assessments (EA) shall
be required.
      (6)   Radio frequency. Radio frequency exposure levels shall not exceed
the lesser of FCC and ANSI exposure standards at any potential point of
exposure to the general public. The owner(s) and operator(s) of all WTA shall
make all reasonable attempts by design, fencing, signage and the like to limit
the public’s exposure. An engineer prepared and sealed document attesting to
the fact that the calculated and proposed radio frequency levels shall remain
at the lesser of the FCC and ANSI standards is required. This letter shall be
required following completion of the structure’s construction, and before a
certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (7)   Structural integrity. An engineer’s prepared and sealed complete
site plan document that denotes compliance with all technical specifications
provided in federal, state and town code, and a certification that the proposed
structure and all proposed and potential occupant structures are stable and
capable of withstanding a 50-year hurricane is required.
      (8)   Insurance requirements. A minimum of $1,000,000 general liability
insurance with a letter from the insurer attesting to this fact shall be
required prior to receipt of a certificate of occupancy. This same letter shall
acknowledge that the insurer shall notify the town 30 days prior to
cancellation of this insurance.
   (C)   New construction or modification of wireless telecommunication support
structures (WTSS).
      (1)   Statement of financial responsibility. The owner(s), and their
representative(s) shall be required to provide proof of financial
responsibility for all wireless telecommunication structures constructed or
maintained within the town. This statement shall be completed upon initial
application, and renewed each year. If full financial responsibility cannot
clearly be demonstrated to the full satisfaction of the town, a surety bond for
110% of the total cost of all structure(s) removal and associated cleanup may
be required by the town. The owner(s) and their representative(s) shall be
fully responsible for all maintenance, and continued assurance that the
structure(s) continually remain in compliance with town code.
      (2)   Special use permit required. Construction of any new, or
modification of any existing WTSS shall require a special use permit.
Exemptions to this requirement shall include, but shall not be limited to, co-
location of new WTA on an existing WTSS, reductions in height or size of a
WTSS, or any issues of routine maintenance to either the WTA or WTSS.
      (3)   Demonstration of need. Applicants shall provide substantial
evidence as to the current need for the proposed WTSS both in terms of coverage
area and capacity, and must demonstrate why all currently available WTSS and
AASS co-location opportunities cannot provide adequate coverage and capacity.
      (4)   Demonstration of lack of suitable co-location opportunities. New
WTSS shall be permitted only after clear demonstration that all potential
opportunities for co-location have been exhausted, and that no suitable
existing support structures exist within the coverage area that may be used,
including all WTSS and AASS. The applicant(s) shall identify and assess all
potential opportunities for co-location within a 5,000-foot radius around the
proposed point of construction for the new WTSS. An engineer’s prepared and
sealed letter shall be required, attesting to the fact that it is technically
impossible to co-locate on any existing WTSS and all other AASS within the
search area, with a map showing all potential sites, and stating why each is
technically unfeasible. A notarized letter from the applicant(s) shall be
required listing all technically feasible sites, noting for each site that the
applicant(s) attempted, in good faith, to negotiate terms of co-location with
the owner(s) of the potential site, and negotiation has failed.
      (5)   Requirement of notification. Applicants shall be required to
notify, by certified mail with return receipt requested, all property owners
within 500 feet and all adjacent property owners of their application for
construction of a new, or modification of an existing WTSS. Exceptions to this
requirement shall include, but shall not be limited to, co-location of new WTA
on an existing WTSS, reductions in height or size of the WTSS, or any issues of
routine maintenance to either the WTA or WTSS.
      (6)   Minimum lot area. Parcels used for placement of new or modified
WTSS shall be the greater of a minimum of 10,000 square feet, or shall be
capable of meeting the minimum lot size necessary to accommodate the minimum
setback requirements defined below.
      (7)   Minimum setback requirements. When the proposed structure is
located adjacent to any church, school, public facility or residential zone,
the center of the support structure shall be located a distance from the
nearest property line a minimum of one and one-quarter times the greatest
height of the structure including any WTA or devices that would add to the
total height of the structure. The engineer’s site plan for the tower shall
indicate that the fall radius for the tower lies within the tower site, and
that the fall radius zone does not include any of the aforementioned structures
or zones. Otherwise, the center of structure shall be located as close as
possible to then the geometric center of the property, with minimum setbacks
from all sides of 50 feet.
      (8)   Support structure type. Only camouflaged or “stealth” WTSS or
monopole support structures shall be used. Structures involving the use of guy
wires for either internal or external bracing and support, or lattice type
structures, or any other type of support structure shall be prohibited.
      (9)   Permitted height. The WTSS may not exceed the minimum height
necessary to accomplish the technical objectives of the primary WTA and the
required number of additional WTAs, and shall be the lesser of the demonstrated
minimum required for the technology employed, plus the minimum required for all
proposed additional occupants. No WTSS shall be constructed that has any
component of its structure more than 75 feet above the average adjacent tree or
building lines. No combination of WTA and WTSS may exceed 100 feet. An
engineer’s sealed letter describing the proposed WTSSs adherence to this
provision shall be required.
      (10)   Illumination. No WTSS or WTA shall be illuminated unless
specifically directed by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal
agency. If required, lighting must be to the minimum specified by a federal
agency. Strobe lights shall be prohibited unless specifically required. When
strobe lights are required by the specifying agency, they shall be dual
strobes, with white strobes for daytime use, and red strobes for nighttime use.
All lighting shall be directed toward the structure, and upward and outward
from any public areas. A copy of the Federal Aviation Administration lighting
requirements letter shall be submitted with the application.
      (11)   Color. Unless otherwise specified by a federal agency, all WTSS
shall be painted a flat gray color.
      (12)   Limited to applicant. Every special use permit for freestanding
WTSS shall be limited to the applicant(s). Any assignment or transfer of the
special use permit or any of the rights under the permit may be made only upon
the approval of the town.
      (13)   Complete application. A complete application, consisting of the
following, shall be submitted for all proposed wireless telecommunication
support structures (WTSS):
         (a)   WTSS application;
         (b)   Application fee;
         (c)   Copy of FCC license;
         (d)   Copy of all applications filed with federal and state agencies;
         (e)   FAA letter ascertaining “No Hazard” to air navigation;
         (f)   Statement of financial responsibility or surety bond;
         (g)   Engineer’s letter describing lack of technically feasible co-
location opportunities within a 3,000-foot radius of the proposed site
location;
         (h)   Owner(s) letter describing inability to negotiate in good faith
co-location on all possible site which are technically feasible;
         (i)   Owner(s) letter describing and the availability and opportunity
for co-location sites on the proposed structure;
         (j)   Engineer’s site plan for the proposed WTSS depicting the
location parcel, its size, zoning, adjacent zoning and fall radius;
         (k)   FAA or other federal agency letter describing minimal lighting
and color requirements for the proposed WTSS;
         (l)   Engineer’s letter denoting structural integrity of the proposed
WTSS and all potential tenants, and certification of its integrity in a 50-year
storm;
         (m)   Engineer’s letter attesting to the fact that exposures to the
public of any radio frequency levels will at or below the lesser of the FCC and
ANSI standards;
         (n)   Letter from insurer that the owner(s) will have a minimum
$1,000,000 general liability policy, and that the insurer will notify the town
30 days prior to cancellation of this insurance;
         (o)   Engineer’s scaled site plan including elevations, visual
analysis, rendering or photo simulation of the proposed WTSS from varying
distances as viewed by the public; and
         (p)   Engineer’s site plan including elevations, and showing total
heights of the proposed WTA and its support structure, and the WTA proposed
color(s) and illumination scheme.
   (D)   Co-location on existing structures.
      (1)   Permitted use. Co-location of WTA on an existing WTSS or AASS shall
be a permitted use.
      (2)   Zoning. Co-located WTA shall be allowed as a permitted use only in
the Business Zoning Districts (B-1, B-2) and within the right-of-way for
Highway 210 as defined by the state, and on water towers.
      (3)   Height limitations. WTA located on an existing WTSS or AASS shall
not exceed the lesser of 15 feet or 10% of the existing support structure
height as measured from the structure’s apex to the average ground level
immediately adjacent to the structure.
      (4)   Color. The color of all WTAs shall match the color of the
supporting WTSS or AASS.
      (5)   Illumination. Illumination requirements for new WTA co-located on
existing structures shall be subject to the same requirements for freestanding
WTSS.
      (6)   Lease agreement. A copy of the lease agreement between the owner(s)
of the WTA and the owner(s) of the support structure shall be submitted with
the application. The financial terms of the agreement need not be disclosed.
      (7)   Complete application. The requirements for a complete application
for a WTA are:
         (a)   WTA application;
         (b)   Application fee;
         (c)   Copy of FCC license;
         (d)   Copy of all applications filed with federal and state agencies;
         (e)   FAA letter ascertaining “No Hazard” to air navigation;
         (f)   FAA or other federal agency letter describing minimal lighting
and color requirements for the proposed WTA;
         (g)   Engineer’s letter denoting structural integrity of the proposed
WTA and all potential tenants, and certification of its integrity in a 50-year
storm;
         (h)   Engineer’s letter attesting to the fact that exposures to the
public of any radio frequency levels will at or below the lesser of the FCC and
ANSI standards;
         (i)   A copy of the lease agreement between the owner(s) of the WTA
and the owner(s) of the structure on placement is proposed;
         (j)   Engineer’s depiction of the minimal size and other requirement
for equipment housing structures; and
         (k)   Engineer’s site plan including elevations, and showing total
heights of the proposed WTA and its support structure, and the WTA proposed
color(s) and illumination scheme.
      (8)   Equipment housing structures.
         (a)   Visibility. The base of the support structure to a minimum
height of six feet shall not be visible from any public right-of-way or area of
public congregation, and must be hidden from view either by natural vegetation
or by vegetative screening. All equipment necessary for the functional
operation of the technology employed shall be located in either a lawfully pre-
existing structure, or in an equipment housing structure. The colors and
external characteristics of the equipment housing structures shall be
harmonious with, and blend with, the natural features, buildings and structures
surrounding it.
         (b)   Access drives. Roads and drives used to gain access from public
right-of-way to the equipment housing structures shall be designed to minimize,
as much as possible, viewing of the equipment housing structures by the public.
         (c)   Size. Equipment housing structures shall be the minimum size
necessary to accommodate the closed storage of all ground-based equipment, and
necessary materials for the primary occupant’s technical needs, and for the
technical needs of all potential tenants. Depiction of the minimum size
necessary to accomplish these technical objectives shall be included in the
engineer’s site plan details.
         (d)   Fencing and screening. The accessory building and its fencing
shall be fully surrounded (excepting a single point of access) by a planted
vegetative screening, as described below, or by a minimum of 15 feet existing
natural vegetation. Whether natural or planted, the vegetative buffer shall
have the effect of fully obscuring the structure and its fencing from public
view. All planted buffers shall be at least five feet tall at planting, and
shall be designed to reach at least eight feet within two years, and shall be
an evergreen, salt-resistant planting material. Continued maintenance and
replacement of the vegetative buffer, as needed, shall be required for the
permitted life of the structure. A security fence shall be installed along the
full perimeter of the support structure and shall be no less than five feet and
no more than eight feet high. The fencing shall incorporate designs for
structure security and for making all possible efforts to minimize public
exposure to radio frequency radiation. Any and all accessories and all
materials relating to the use of the WTA or WTSS shall be installed within the
building, unless technically impractical. All road or drive, gate, fence and
vegetative screening details shall be noted within the engineer’s site plan.
         (e)   Signage. No advertising signs are permitted on the support
structure, the fence, building or at any location on the site, with the
exception of one sign that is attached to the gate, and one sign that is
attached to the gate-face of the building for the purposes of safety and
information. These two signs shall clearly identify the dangers, and shall
provide the names of emergency contact persons and their phone numbers. Any
signs shall comply with the town code.
         (f)   Two-way and microwave antennas. Two-way and microwave antennae
shall be located within accessory buildings whenever technically feasible.
         (g)   Outdoor storage prohibited. Storage of any equipment or
materials on the accessory building site or support structure site is
prohibited.
         (h)   Noise producing equipment. Noise producing equipment shall be
sited and/or insulated to minimize to the maximum practicable extent any
increase in noise above ambient levels as measured at the property line.
         (i)   Electrical connections and land lines. Electrical connections
and land phone lines to and from the accessory building shall be installed
underground.
   (E)   Applicant’s remedy. Minor variances from the stated design and purpose
of all structures may be addressed to the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Informal dispute resolution process. All parties shall attempt to
adhere to the agreement adopting an informal dispute resolution process as
described in the 1998 meeting between the LSGAC, the CTIA, the PCIA and the
AMTA. This process is designed to arrive at a mutual agreement while avoiding
lengthy and costly court proceedings. All parties retain their full legal
rights should this remediation process fail.
   (G)   Appeal for remediation. Upon disapproval, or dissatisfaction with the
conditions of approval by the Board of Aldermen, the applicant(s) shall have a
30-day period in which to request an appeal for remediation. The appeal for
remediation shall involve the applicant(s), selected members of the Planning
Board, and the Board of Aldermen, and shall be moderated by a third-party
arbitration team. At the end of the process, the arbitration team will make a
recommendation of its findings to all parties, and will provide a written
record of the proceedings.
   (H)   Annual renewal.
      (1)   Annual renewal required. All WTA and WTSS shall be reviewed by the
town on an annual basis. An application for annual renewal must be submitted to
the town no later than 90 days prior to the date of last renewal or the date of
the original certificate of occupancy. Structures will be re-permitted for the
next 365 days following review by the inspections office, the Planning Board,
and the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   Application for renewal. The complete list of requirements for
annual renewal for a WTSS and a WTA is:
         (a)   Renewal application fee;
         (b)   Complete renewal application form;
         (c)   Letter of continued insurance coverage for minimal general
liability;
         (d)   Letter from the inspections department that the WTSS or WTA has
remained in compliance with town code since the later of the last renewal or
the certificate of occupancy;
         (e)   Engineer’s letter stating that the WTSS or WTA had remained in
compliance with all federal, state and town code requirements for structural
integrity, and for radio frequency exposure requirements; and
         (f)   Letter from the owner(s) that the WTSS or WTA has remained in
compliance with all FCC, FAA and NEPA requirements since the later of either
the last renewal or the certificate of occupancy. Letter from the owner(s) that
they intend to maintain full financial responsibility for the WTSS or WTA for
the entire renewal period.
      (3)   Abandonment. Any WTA or WTSS that is not operated for a continuous
period of 180 consecutive days, or that is not maintained according to town
code for 180 cumulative during the calendar year, or any structure for whom the
owner(s) or representative(s) fail to make annual renewal shall be considered
abandoned. Removal of the abandoned structure to the satisfaction of the
inspections department shall be required within 90 days. The owner(s) shall be
responsible for all costs of removal. Petition for a onetime extension of 90
days may be made to the Board of Adjustment. Density, intensity and dimensional
standards.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.18 PARKS AND RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Permanent parking lots associated with parks and greenways must meet
the standards of §
6.05, Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirement.
   (B)   Dust-free, pervious surface areas are encouraged for overflow or event
parking. Such areas, if maintained in a natural condition, need not conform
with this paving requirements for off-street parking.
   (C)   Service areas must be separated by an opaque screen from view from any
street and from abutting residential properties.
   (D)   Outdoor lighting associated with active outdoor recreation must not
shine directly into yards associated with a residential use nor into the
windows of a residential structure.
   (E)   Hours of operation of outdoor recreation must be no earlier than 6:00
a.m. and no later than 11:00 p.m. for uses located in or abutting a residential
district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.19 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (GOVERNMENT FACILITIES).
   (A)   Access. Must have primary access to a minor thoroughfare or higher
capacity street.
   (B)   Use separation. Fifty-foot minimum distance between the ambulance or
police station or similar use and any adjacent residential property.
   (C)   Screening. Service areas must be separated from the view from abutting
residential properties using the standards for enclosed outdoor storage and
service areas pursuant to §
4.03.06.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 4.03.20 DUPLEX.
   Duplex greater than ten bedrooms total and 5,000 heated square feet:
   (A)   General requirements:
      (1)   Side setbacks are ten feet required for zoning district;
      (2)   Height is limited to 48 feet;
      (3)   Maximum impervious surface is limited to 30% outside the ORW;
      (4)   Parking plan:
         (a)   To include one space per bedroom up to ten, and two spaces per
bedroom over ten.
      (5)   Engineered stormwater plan for all impervious surface; and
      (6)   The proposed development is harmonious and compatible with
surrounding area.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-5-2014)
§ 4.03.21 SINGLE-FAMILY.
   Single-family greater eight bedrooms and 5,000 heated square feet:
   (A)   General requirements:
      (1)   Side setbacks are ten feet required for zoning district;
      (2)   Height is limited to 48 feet;
      (3)   Maximum impervious surface is limited to 30% outside the ORW;
      (4)   Parking plan:
         (a)   To include one space per bedroom up to ten, and two spaces per
bedroom over ten.
      (5)   Engineered stormwater plan for all impervious surface; and
      (6)   The proposed development is harmonious and compatible with
surrounding area.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 6-5-2014)
§ 4.03.22 ICE VENDING MACHINE.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Unit must meet construction standards for high hazard flood area.
      (2)   Unit must be elevated two feet above base flood elevation (BFE), as
indicated by required elevation certificate.
      (3)   Engineered designed access must be ADA compliant.
      (4)   Provided engineer certification that structure as installed is
rated to withstand wind loads up to 130 mph with three-second wind gusts.
      (5)   Submit plans and specifications for the facility and/or unit,
including the plumbing, electrical, mechanical, HVAC (if applicable), as well
as a schedule of finished materials, maintenance and cleaning schedules, post-
anomaly procedures (flood, loss of water pressure, loss of power).
      (6)   Advertising shall not take up more than 50% on two sides.
      (7)   Application shall include illustration or photos for the Board’s
consideration of aesthetics.
      (8)   Survey required indicating proposed unit meets setbacks, maximum
impervious and other CAMA and zoning requirements. A detailed site plan is
required to indicate:
         (a)   A parking plan, consistent with Table 6-5, Parking Requirements:
         (b)   Cannot take up existing parking spaces;
         (c)   Ingress/egress so designed as to minimize the traffic congestion
and not to impede emergency vehicle access to surrounding properties; and
         (d)   Engineered design French drains for the water melt without any
negative effect to the environment.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-7-2015)
§ 4.03.23 AGRICULTURAL USES.
   Property that is located in North Topsail Beach’s planning and development
regulation jurisdiction and that is used for bona fide purposes, including
agritourism, is exempt from this UDO to the same extent bona fide farming
activities are exempt from county zoning pursuant to G.S. § 160D-903. As used
in this subsection, PROPERTY means a single tract of property or an
identifiable portion of a single tract. Property that ceases to be used for
bona fide farm purposes shall become subject to exercise of the town’s
extraterritorial planning and development regulation jurisdiction under G.S.
Chapter 160D. For purposes of complying with state or federal law, property
that is exempt from the exercise of municipal extraterritorial planning and
development regulation jurisdiction pursuant to this subsection shall be
subject to the town’s floodplain regulation or all floodplain regulation
provisions of the county’s ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 4.03.24 DOCKS, PIERS AND FLOATING WALKWAYS.
   Unencapsulated polystyrene as a floatation device for floating dock systems,
piers and floating walkways is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2021; Ord. passed 7-6-2022)
ARTICLE 5: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
5.01   Outstanding resource waters (ORW)
   
5.02   Measurement of building height
   
5.03   Setbacks for accessory buildings
   
5.04   Lot size without central water and central sewer
   
5.05   Zero lot lines
   
5.06   Other yard modifications
   
5.07   Retaining walls
 
Table 5-1 Dimensional Requirements
Zoning   Minimum  Front   Lot   Side Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Building Maximum
District Lot Size Yard    Width Setback   on Corner Setback   Height   Lot
                  Setback                                              Coverage
Table 5-1 Dimensional Requirements
Zoning   Minimum  Front   Lot   Side Yard Side Yard Rear Yard Building Maximum
District Lot Size Yard    Width Setback   on Corner Setback   Height   Lot
                  Setback                                              Coverage
Con-D                                                                  30%
R-A      3 acres  30’   75’ 10’     20’     10’     48’    30%
R-20     20,000   30’   75’ 10’     20’     10’     48’    30%
         sq. ft.
R-15
Single-  15,000
family   sq. ft.  20’   60’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
or
duplex
R-10     10,000
Single-  sq. ft.  20’   60’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
family
         plus
         10,000
Multi-   sq. ft.  20’   60’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
family   for each
         unit
         over 2
R-
8        8,000    20’   50’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
Single-  sq. ft.
family
         plus
         8,000
Multi-   sq. ft.  20’   50’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
family   for each
         unit
         over 2
R-
5        5,000    20’   50’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
Single-  sq. ft.
family
         plus
         5,000
Multi-   sq. ft.  20’   50’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
family   for each
         unit
         over 2
MHR      5,000
Single-  sq. ft.  20’   50’ 8’      15’     10’     48’    30%
family
         plus
         5,000
Multi-   sq. ft.                                              48’
family   for each
         unit
         over 1
         8,000
B-1      sq. ft.  20’   50’ 8’      10’     10’     48’    30%
         per
         building
B-2
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2012-1, passed 4-5-2012)
§ 5.01 OUTSTANDING RESOURCE WATERS (ORW).
   Lots adjacent to outstanding resource waters (ORW), as defined by the State
Division of Environmental Management, shall not exceed 25% lot coverage as per
state requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.02 MEASUREMENT OF BUILDING HEIGHT.
   (A)   The height of any building shall be the vertical distance of the
highest point of the roof or any rooftop deck, fence, railing, widow’s walk or
other rooftop structure as measured from the top of the lowest slab and if no
slab is measured from the lowest adjacent grade as specified on the elevation
certificate.
   (B)   No building shall be erected, altered or raised in any manner as to
exceed the height of 48 feet. Certification of compliance with this section
shall be indicated on the final elevation certificate and on the as-built plat
of survey prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.03 SETBACKS FOR ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Any accessory building must meet the same setback requirements as the
principal building and not exceed the frontline of the main structure.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.04 LOT SIZE WITHOUT CENTRAL WATER AND CENTRAL SEWER.
   (A)   All lots not served by central sewer and central water shall be at
least 10,000 square feet in area, not less than 50 feet wide at the building
line nor less than 75 feet deep.
   (B)   All lots served by one but not both central water or central sewer
shall be at least 5,000 square feet in area, not less than 40 feet wide at the
building line, nor less than 75 feet deep.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.05 ZERO LOT LINES.
   Any planned unit development in the residential districts may make use of
the zero lot line concept, that is, no minimum lot size or yard requirements,
provided that the total area of the development meets the minimum lot size in
its district, that density requirements for the zoning district are complied
with, that the development remains under single control through a property
owners’ association or similar means, and that minimum yards and buffers as
required in its district are preserved around each building, and around the
entire perimeter of the development.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.06 OTHER YARD MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The required front yard for through lots shall be provided on both
streets.
   (B)   Architectural features, such as open or enclosed fire escapes, steps,
outside stairways, balconies and similar features, and uncovered porches, may
not project more than four feet into any required yard. Sills, cornices, eaves,
gutters, buttresses, ornamental features and similar items may not project into
any required yard more than 30 inches.
   (C)   Townhouse developments shall adhere to the dimensional requirements in
Table 5-1, Dimensional Requirements, prior to construction. Resulting post-
construction lots will be irregular lot sizes and not further developable.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 5.07 RETAINING WALLS.
   The setback and yard requirements of this ordinance shall not apply to a
retaining wall not more than three feet high, as measured from the lowest
ground elevation to the top of the wall. The Board of Adjustment may permit a
retaining wall greater than three feet in height where it finds that due to the
topography of the lot such a wall is necessary.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
ARTICLE 6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
6.01   Subdivision
   
6.01.01   Purpose
   
6.01.02   Applicability
   
6.01.03   Definition of subdivision
   
6.01.04   Standards
   
6.01.05   Street access
   
6.01.06   Reduction of lot size prohibited
   
6.01.07   Design standards
   
6.01.08   Business districts
   
6.02   Planned unit developments
   
6.02.01   Design and construction requirements
   
6.02.02   Minimum area
   
6.02.03   Project density
   
6.02.04   Open space
   
6.02.05   Streets
   
6.02.06   Utilities
   
6.03   Suitability of land
   
6.04   Buffers
   
6.04.01   Purpose of buffers
   
6.04.02   Location, installation and maintenance of buffers
   
6.04.03   Use of buffers
   
6.04.04   Buffers and subsequent development
   
6.04.05   Buffer description and options
   
6.04.06   Minimum plant size
   
6.04.07   Buffering requirements by district and type of development
   
6.04.08   Buffers not required for existing uses
   
6.05   Off-street parking and loading requirement
   
6.05.02   Off-street loading purpose and general requirements
   
6.05.03   Minimum loading requirements
Cross-reference:
   Nonconformities, see
Article 9
   Zoning, see
Article 3
§ 6.01 SUBDIVISION.
§ 6.01.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the
town. It is further designed:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly growth and development of the town;
   (B)   For the coordination of streets and highways within proposed
subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways and with other
public facilities;
   (C)   For the dedication or reservation of recreation areas serving
residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and of rights-
of-way or easements for street and utility purposes;
   (D)   For the distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will
avoid congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to
public health, safety and the general welfare;
   (E)   To further facilitate adequate provision of water, sewerage, parks,
schools and playgrounds; and
   (F)   To facilitate the further resubdivision of larger tracts into smaller
parcels of land.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Conformity with regulations required. After the effective date of this
ordinance, no real property within the town shall be subdivided and any portion
of the property offered for sale, sold or transferred except in conformance
with all applicable provisions of this ordinance. Compliance with this Article
6 includes, but is not limited to, compliance with all regulations in this
ordinance applicable in the district in which the land is located.
   (B)   Suitability of land. Land subject to flooding, poor drainage, erosion
or that is for topographical or other reasons unsuitable for residential or
commercial use as determined by the Board of Aldermen, shall not be platted for
any use that will continue or increase the danger to health, safety or property
unless the conditions can be corrected.
   (C)   Building permits. Building permits shall not be issued for structures
located in a subdivision unless the final plat is recorded in the office of the
County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.03 DEFINITION OF SUBDIVISION.
   For the purpose of this article, “subdivision” shall mean all divisions of a
tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites, or other
divisions for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate or
future) and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in existing streets.
   (A)   Exemptions. The following exemptions shall not be included within this
definition nor be subject to any regulations enacted pursuant to this article,
however, all lots created under these exemptions must be in compliance with the
CAMA Land Use Plan and meet the impervious limits, minimum area, lot width and
setback standards of the Unified Development Ordinance. Any document or plat to
be recorded pursuant to such exclusions shall have the proper notation of “no
approval required” and the signature of the Planning Director, before filing
with the County Register of Deeds:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the municipality
as shown in this article;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of
streets; and
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the municipality as shown in this article.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
      (6)   (a)   Family division. The division of land by any method of
transfer from a grantor to a grantee (or grantees) who is a member of the
grantor's immediate family, solely for the residential use of the grantee (or
grantees). For the purposes of this section, the term "immediate family" shall
include only direct lineal descendants (children and grandchildren) and direct
lineal ascendants (father, mother, grandfather and grandmother). The following
is a list of requirements/statements that must be submitted with an exempt plat
for a subdivision of property for family purposes:
            1.   A plat listing the names of the family members and identifying
which lots are to be conveyed to each with a statement that “the lot(s) shown
are created for the purpose of family ownership”;
            2.   Where lots are not adjacent in a public street, a note on the
plat stating that the lot is benefited by a permanent easement for access and
utilities;
            3.   The following note shall appear on the plat: “No additional
lots, including the resubdivision of the lots served by the access easement and
utility, shall be permitted unless the access and utility easement is upgraded
to meet or exceed the standards of the Unified Development Ordinance”;
            4.   A note stating that the property owners are responsible for
the upkeep and maintenance of the access and utility easement shall be placed
on the plat; and
            5.   A septic permit or letter of sewer availability shall be
required for each lot to be created or a statement shall be placed on the plat
that the property is being conveyed as forestland or farmland.
         (b)   Divisions (A)(6)(a)2. through (A)(6)(a)4. only apply only when
the lot(s) created do not have direct access to a public street.
   (B)   The town may provide for expedited review of specified classes of
subdivisions.
   (C)   The town may require only a plat for recordation for the division of a
tract or parcel of land in single ownership if all the following criteria are
met:
      (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under this
section;
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this article in the ten years prior to division;
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres;
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division;
and
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   Any lot dimension size requirements of the zoning, subdivision,
and other development regulations of the Unified Development Ordinance and the
CAMA Land Use Plan;
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements of the Unified Development Ordinance and the CAMA Land Use Plan;
and
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 18-03, passed 5-3-2018)
§ 6.01.04 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Relationship of buildings to lot. Every building hereafter erected,
moved or structurally altered shall be located on a lot and in no case shall
there be more than one principal building and its customary accessory buildings
on the lot except in the case of a designed complex of professional,
residential or commercial buildings in an appropriate zoning district. Detached
garages and carports must meet the same setback requirements as the principal
building, just as if they were attached.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.05 STREET ACCESS.
   No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a street, provided
that in a business district or in a planned project in a residential district,
a building may be erected adjoining a parking area or dedicated open space
which has access to a street used in common with other lots.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.06 REDUCTION OF LOT SIZE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Ordinance shall be reduced in size, lot width or area below the
minimum requirements set forth in Table 5-1, Dimensional Requirements.
   (B)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall
meet at least these minimum requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.07 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Relations of proposed streets to adjoining street systems. The
proposed street system shall extend existing and projected streets at not less
than the required minimum width. Where in the opinion of the Board of Aldermen
it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property. The
Board of Aldermen may require that a subdivision locate proposed streets,
public or private, to intersect with other streets or roadways in a place and
manner that will minimize traffic congestion and risk to the public safety. The
Board of Aldermen may limit the number of accesses and control the traffic from
all outlets of subdivisions onto other streets for the purpose of protecting
the public safety while providing for reasonably convenient subdivision access
to the street system.
   (B)   Street names.
      (1)   Proposed streets that are obviously in alignment with others
already existing shall bear the names of the existing streets.
      (2)   The road names on file with the State Department of Transportation
and the County GIS Department are hereby declared the official names of these
roads, unless changed by action of the Board of Aldermen in accordance with
policies so adopted by the Board of Aldermen. The Planning Board is hereby
authorized to determine the need for road name changes and to recommend such
changes to the Board of Aldermen.
      (3)   All roads in the town shall be identified by a sign showing the
official name and state road number, if any. These road signs shall be placed
at all intersections and may identify both intersecting streets.
      (4)   Road name signs shall be uniform throughout the town in accordance
with approved local standards and policies.
   (C)   Street construction. All dedicated public streets and approved private
streets shall be constructed to the specifications of the town as specified in
§
6.02.05.
   (D)   Intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles
as possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than 75 degrees. No
more than two streets shall intersect at any one point.
   (E)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be within 500 feet of each proposed
lot as measured along a paved street. All hydrants shall be three-outlet-base-
valve type located on a six-inch or larger water main. The fire hydrant plan
shall be reviewed by the Fire Chief and public water authority.
   (F)   Access. Within all proposed subdivisions, group housing and special
developments, and all other developments subject to the terms of special plat
approvals, a minimum public access width of ten feet shall be provided from
each street right-of-way to the high-water mark of both the Atlantic Ocean and
the soundside; provided, the Board of Aldermen may eliminate, vary or change
the location or width of any of the public accesses within a block following
recommendation by the Planning Board based upon topography, good land use
planning, or similar considerations.
   (G)   Minimum lot width. All lots within the proposed subdivision shall meet
the required minimum lot width, as indicated in Table 5-1, Dimensional
Requirements.
   (H)   Installation of improvements. No local improvements or utilities,
including water, sewer, storm drains, paving, curb and gutter, shall be
constructed until the preliminary plat and completed detailed plans for such
improvements have been examined, analyzed and approved by the Board of
Aldermen. Detailed plans of proposed improvements shall be submitted with the
preliminary plat and shall include plan views, profiles, typical sections,
cross-sections, standard specifications and construction details. Design of
streets and utilities shall be combined into one plan set when possible.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.01.08 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Buffers. A buffer shall be required in accordance with §
6.04, if commercial development abuts a residential or multi-family residential
lot.
   (B)   Paved roads. For all projects containing more than two units, all
parking lots, drives, streets and roads within the project shall be paved and
constructed in accordance with the construction standards for paved subdivision
streets within the town.
   (C)   Lighting. Outdoor lighting shall be in accordance with §
6.02.06(C). Any lighting provided within the project shall be so located or
shielded so that no offensive glare will be visible from an adjoining street or
property.
   (D)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall conform to the building setback
lines. All swimming pools shall be reasonably accessible to emergency equipment
and vehicles. Any lighting in the pool area shall be shielded in such a manner
that no offensive glare will be visible from an adjoining street or property.
   (E)   Garbage areas. Adequate space shall be provided within the project
area for the collection of garbage and other refuse, and all dumpsters and
equipment used for garbage collection shall be screened from public view.
   (F)   Provision for fire. All hydrants shall be located adjacent to a paved
street, road or parking lot suitable for the transportation of firefighting
vehicles and equipment.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
§ 6.02.01 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The design, construction and development of planned developments shall
comply with the design and construction requirements of §
2.06.03, and other applicable ordinances of the town, except as may be modified
in this section.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02.02 MINIMUM AREA.
   Subject to the provisions in this ordinance, all planned unit developments
shall contain a minimum of two contiguous acres. Any addition must be at least
two acres, contiguous and adjacent to the existing planned unit development,
and subject to design standards.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02.03 PROJECT DENSITY.
   The overall density of each planned development (both residential and
commercial units) shall be in conformance to the requirements of Table 5-1,
Dimensional Requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02.04 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Each planned development shall contain open space in the following
percentages of the overall area of the Planned Unit Development that shall be
computed based upon the number of dwellings per gross acre of planned
development shown in Table 6-1.
 
Table 6-2 Required Open Space in Planned Unit Developments
Number of Dwelling Units per Gross Acre Minimum Percentage of Open Space
3 units or less                         10
4 to 6 units                            20
7 to 8 units                            30
 
   (B)   Open space is defined as that land designated on the plat as being for
the use, benefit and enjoyment of the residents of the planned unit
development. The open space shall be set aside for the use, benefit and
enjoyment of all residents of the planned unit development, and shall either be
dedicated to the private use of residents of the planned unit development or
conveyed to the owner’s association or similar resident’s association for
ownership, use and management. Land that is restricted in any way so as to be
for the use, benefit or enjoyment of a select group within the planned unit
development shall not qualify as open space.
   (C)   To qualify as open space, land shall have a minimum width of 24 feet
excluding street rights-of-way, drives, parking areas or structures other than
recreational structures. Street rights-of-way, drives, parking areas and
central water and sewer systems may qualify as open space and be counted
towards the percentage of open space required for each development; provided,
that street rights-of-way, drives, parking areas, and water and central sewage
systems shall not comprise more than 33-1/3% of the required open spaces for
each development unless the percentage is varied or waived by the Board of
Aldermen upon recommendation by the Planning Board.
   (D)   Required natural area: nothing in this section shall change, modify or
repeal the requirements of §§
2.06.09 or
7.05(G) related to dunes and vegetation protection with regard to the
percentage of each tract or lot that must be retained in its natural state.
   (E)   Dimension requirements:
      (1)   A 15-foot setback shall be required along all peripheral boundaries
of a planned unit development. A building, whether it is a principal or
accessory building, shall not encroach upon this required setback distance.
      (2)   Side or rear setbacks for single-family detached dwellings. A zero
side or rear yard setback within the PUD, where the side or rear building line
is on the side or rear lot line, may be permitted on one side or rear of each
lot subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Any wall constructed on the side or rear lot lines shall be a
solid, windowless, doorless wall. If there is an offset of the wall from the
lot line, such offset shall be a solid, windowless, doorless wall or be located
the applicable setback distance from the side or rear lot line as applicable as
required by this ordinance for the zoning district in which the property is
located.
         (b)   The minimum building separation for the side or rear yard
opposite the zero rear lot line shall be either a minimum building separation
of 15 feet from the side of the adjacent dwelling if then constructed, or a
minimum 15-foot building setback line from the adjoining side or rear lot line,
whichever is greater. This 15-foot area shall be subject to all the
requirements and conditions of the unified development ordinance normally
applied to side or rear yards for buildings within the zoning district in which
the property is located.
         (c)   A five-foot maintenance easement with a maximum eave
encroachment easement of two feet within the maintenance easement shall be
established in the deed restrictions and covenants of the adjoining lot and
shall assure ready access to the lot line wall at reasonable periods of the day
for normal maintenance.
         (d)   Preliminary and final site development plans shall indicate the
proposed location and configuration of dwellings, driveways and parking
arrangements for each lot. In addition, a draft of proposed encroachment and
maintenance easement shall be submitted for review and approval.
         (e)   All remaining yards shall have a minimum 15-foot building
setback.
   (F)   Water supply and sewage service: central water supply and public sewer
service connection shall be required for all units, and the same shall be
approved, constructed, completed and maintained in accordance with the
requirements of the appropriate water or sewer agency.
   (G)   Primary vehicular access: primary vehicular access to the planned unit
development shall be from a public street.
   (H)   Building height: no building shall exceed the maximum height allowed.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02.05 STREETS.
   (A)   Type of streets required. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public
or private street. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town or the
state as determined by the Board of Aldermen or appropriate state authority.
All public streets shall be built to the standards of this ordinance and all
other applicable standards of the town and the State Department of
Transportation. Public streets not dedicated to the town which are eligible for
acceptance into the state highway system shall be constructed to the standards
necessary to be put on the state highway system or the standards in this
ordinance, whichever is stricter. A written maintenance agreement with
provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the state or town
system shall be included with the final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a
municipal or state system, before lots are sold, a statement explaining the
status of the street shall be included with the final plat.
   (C)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with the standards contained in the most
current edition of the state roads, Minimum Construction Standards booklet, and
the standards in this ordinance, whichever are stricter in regard to each
particular item.
   (D)   Design standards. The design of public streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this ordinance shall be in accordance with the accepted
policies of the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as
taken or modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials
(AASHO) manuals. The most current edition of the State Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways’ Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction
Standards shall apply for any items not included in this ordinance, or where
stricter than this ordinance.
   (E)   Right-of-way widths. Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the
following and shall apply except in those cases where right-of-way requirements
have been specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan.
Table 6-3 Right-of-Way Widths
 Minimum Right-of-Way
Table 6-3 Right-of-Way Widths
                                                        Minimum Right-of-Way
Rural
   Principal arterial
      Freeways                                    350 feet
      Other                                       200 feet
   Minor arterial                                    100 feet
   Major collector                                   100 feet*
   Minor collector                                   60 feet*
   Local road                                        60 feet*
Urban
   Cul-de-sac                                        Varies**
   Local street                                      60 feet
   Major thoroughfare                                70 feet
   Major thoroughfare other than freeway and expressw90 feet
* If curb and gutter is provided, 50 feet of right-of-way is permitted on
local residential streets.
** The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of 100 feet of
right-of-way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is desired, the
subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount in excess of 100 feet.
In all cases in which right-of-way is sought for an access controlled
facility, the subdivider will only be required to make a reservation.
 
   (F)   Street paving widths. Paving widths for street and road
classifications other than local shall be as required by the mutually adopted
thoroughfare plan where applicable. Paving widths of local roads and streets
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Local residential.
         (a)   Curb and gutter section: 26 feet, to face of curb.
         (b)   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, four-foot
shoulders.
      (2)   Residential collector.
         (a)   Curb and gutter section: 34 feet, face to face of curb.
         (b)   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, six-foot
shoulders.
   (G)   One-way streets. One-way streets may be developed in situations where
the applicant can show that public safety would not be jeopardized. In
developing a one-way street, the travel way shall not be less that 18 feet
where the Fire Marshal approved the design as satisfactory for fire access or
other emergency access purposes.
   (H)   Other street design standards. Transverse slopes in pavement and
shoulders, sight distance, grade, horizontal and vertical curves and
superelevation shall be in accordance with the minimum construction standards
as established by the State Department of Transportation.
   (I)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle
less than 75 degrees.
      (2)   Property lines at intersections should be set so that the distance
from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property line will be
at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to the property
line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be established as a
radius or as a sight triangle. Greater offsets from the edge of pavement to the
property line will be required, if necessary, to provide sight distance for the
vehicle on the side street.
      (3)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is granted
by the division of highways. Intersections which cannot be aligned should be
separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey center lines.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.02.06 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Public water and public sanitary sewer system. All lots in
subdivisions not connected to the public water system and/or the public
sanitary sewer system must have a suitable source of water supply and sanitary
sewage disposal, which complies with the regulations of the appropriate
permitting agency. Lots connected to private utility systems shall submit
evidence authorizing the connection from the permitting agency.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage system. The developer shall provide surface water
drainage plans. These plans shall indicate storm water drainage supported by
design computations. The design shall conform to the standards as required by
NCDOT, NCDWQ or other regulatory state agency.
   (C)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   The intent of these standards is to focus on the physical effects
of outdoor lighting, as well as the effect lighting may have on the surrounding
neighborhood, natural beach environment, extremely sensitive turtle population
and night sky conditions. Exterior lighting shall be evaluated in the
development review process to ensure that the functional and security needs of
the project are met in a way that will not adversely affect the adjacent
properties, the surrounding neighborhood, natural beach environment, and dark
night sky conditions.
      (2)   Any outdoor lighting shall be constructed as to not shine directly
on any other property, neighborhood or beach and to reduce night sky glow. This
may be accomplished by indirect lighting, or by low voltage wattage, and use of
full cutoff fixtures, location and height of luminaries.
      (3)   Ocean front dwellings may install outdoor lighting on the ocean
side of the dwelling, but it must be low voltage, indirect or full cut-off
fixtures. The lighting shall not illuminate any part of the dune area or public
beach area. Low indirect lighting can be placed on crosswalks from the dwelling
to the dune area; lighting will not extend past the toe of the dune on the
landward side.
      (4)   Plan approval: if the designated official determines that the
proposed lighting does not comply with this Code, the permit shall not be
issued or the plan approved.
   (D)   Underground wiring. All subdivisions in which the smallest lot is less
than 40,000 square feet shall have underground wiring. This requirement may be
waived by the Board of Aldermen if underlying rock is less than four feet from
surface, in areas where soils have a high water table, or if there is extensive
preexisting overhead wiring on the street in the immediate neighborhood of the
subdivision. Such underground wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
standards of Jones-Onslow EMC. The subdivider shall be required to pay the
charges for installation of the underground service, which charges will be made
in accordance with then effective underground electric service plan as filed
with the State Utilities Commission.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.03 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Criteria for evaluating suitability of proposed recreation, parks and open
space areas shall include, but not be limited to, the following as determined
by the Board of Aldermen.
   (A)   Usability. The dedicated land shall be usable for active recreation.
(Play areas, ball fields, tennis courts or similar recreation uses). Wetlands
may not be included in computing amount of land to be dedicated unless
acceptable to the Board of Aldermen. If the Board of Aldermen determines that
active recreation needs are being met by other dedicated parcels or existing
recreation facilities, then land that is suitable for open space may be
dedicated.
   (B)   Adjustments to requirements. The Board of Aldermen may, in cases of
unusual or exceptional nature allow adjustments in the dedication requirements
established in or required by this ordinance. Such adjustments shall be
reviewed by the Planning Board before action by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Conservation and historic preservation easements. Conservation and
historic preservation easements shall comply with G.S. § 121-34 through 121-42.
All facilities and improvements and open spaces which the owner makes an offer
of dedication to public use shall be maintained by the owner until such offer
of dedication is accepted by the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04 BUFFERS.
§ 6.04.01 PURPOSE OF BUFFERS.
   (A)   Buffers are required to protect one class of use from adverse impacts
caused by a use in another class. This regulation benefits both the developer
and the adjoining landowner(s) because it allows the developer several options
from which to choose in developing the property, while ensuring each neighbor
adequate protection regardless of the developer’s choice, thereby protecting
the property values of all properties involved.
   (B)   The buffer is a strip of land together with the planting required
thereon. Both the amount of land and the type and amount of planting specified
for each buffer requirement of this ordinance are designed to minimize
nuisances between adjacent land uses or between a land use and a public street.
The planting units required in buffers have been calculated to ensure that they
do, in fact, function as “buffers”.
   (C)   Buffers required for permits:
      (1)   Buffers are required to separate different land uses from each
other in order to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as dirt,
litter, traffic, noise, glare of lights, signs and unsightly buildings or
parking areas, or to provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, or
danger from fires or explosions. The fact that a particular land use may be
permitted by right in its zoning district does not exempt it from the buffering
requirements;
      (2)   Each application for a zoning permit or a certificate of occupancy
shall include information on the location and types of buffers to be
constructed or already existing. This information shall be in sufficient detail
to enable the Zoning Administrator to determine whether the requirements of
this section are being met; and
      (3)   The installation of all required buffers shall be completed prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.02 LOCATION, INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF BUFFERS.
   (A)   Buffers shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel,
extending to the lot or parcel boundary line and shall not be located on any
portion of an existing or dedicated public or private street or right-of-way.
In new construction the buffer is in addition to required yards.
   (B)   The installation of buffers is the responsibility of the developer.
The property owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of all buffers.
Litter and debris shall be kept cleared and dead plants shall be replaced with
plants meeting the specifications in §
6.04.06. All structures shall be kept in good repair. If proper maintenance is
not provided, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the property owner of such
fact and, if the proper action is not taken within 30 days of such notice, the
town shall be authorized to enter the property and perform the work. The cost
of this work shall be charged to the property owners and a lien on the property
in that amount shall exist until the town is reimbursed.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.03 USE OF BUFFERS.
   A buffer may be used for passive recreation and may contain picnic tables
and bicycle, pedestrian or equestrian trails, provided that no required plant
material is eliminated, the total width of the buffer is maintained, and all
other regulations are met. A buffer shall not be used for drives, accessory
buildings or any other use.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.04 BUFFERS AND SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT.
   When a lot has been developed and the required buffer is installed, that
landowner will not later be required to add to the buffer, regardless of
subsequent adjacent development, as long as the use does not change. If
subsequent development does not require as great a buffer as has been
installed, the landowner of the first lot may reduce the existing buffer, but
no more than which will leave a buffer meeting all requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.05 BUFFER DESCRIPTION AND OPTIONS.
   The following descriptions list the specifications of each buffer. The
requirements are minimum and the developer may increase the buffer at his or
her option. Buffer requirements are stated in terms of width of the buffer and
the number of plant units required per 100 linear feet of buffer. The
requirements of a buffer may be satisfied by any of the options under each
letter designation. The number of plant materials required per 100 feet is
represented by a whole or decimal number. Both the type and number of plants
is, therefore, specified. All mathematical rounding shall be upwards and shall
be applied to the total amount of plant material required in the buffer, not to
each 100-foot length. Smaller plant sizes are permitted adjacent to vacant or
agricultural land.
   (A)   Buffer “A”. The requirements for buffer “A” shall be met by any one of
the following:
      (1)   Ten feet wide strip with one canopy tree, two understory trees and
three shrubs per 100 linear feet;
      (2)   Fifteen feet wide strip with 0.8 canopy tree, 1.6 understory tree,
and 2.4 shrubs per 100 linear feet;
      (3)   Twenty feet wide strip with 0.6 canopy tree, 1.2 understory tree,
and one and 1.8 shrubs per 100 linear feet; or
      (4)   Twenty-five feet wide strip with 0.4 canopy tree, 0.8 understory
tree, and 1.2 shrubs per 100 linear feet.
   (B)   Buffer “B”. The requirements for buffer “B” shall be met by any one of
the following:
      (1)   Fifteen feet wide strip with two canopy trees, four understory
trees, and six shrubs per 100 linear feet;
      (2)   Twenty feet wide strip with 1.6 canopy trees, 3.2 understory trees,
and 4.8 shrubs per 100 linear feet;
      (3)   Twenty-five feet wide strip with 1.2 canopy trees, 2.4 understory
trees, and 3.6 shrubs per 100 linear feet; or
      (4)   Thirty feet wide strip with 0.8 canopy tree, 1.6 understory trees,
and 2.4 shrubs per 100 linear feet.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.06 MINIMUM PLANT SIZE.
Table 6-4 Minimum Plant Size
                     Minimum Size
Plant material type  Planting in buffers abutting vacant All other plantings
                     land*
Table 6-4 Minimum Plant Size
                                     Minimum Size
Plant material type                  Planting in buffers   All other plantings
                                     abutting vacant land*
Canopy tree                                               
                   Single stem      1-inch caliper**      1-1/2-inch caliper**
                   Multi-stem clump 5 feet (height)       6 feet (height)
                   Understory tree  4 feet (height)       4 feet (height)
                   Evergreen tree   2 feet (height)       3 feet (height)
Shrub
                   Deciduous        12 inches (height)    15 inches (height)
                   Evergreen        9 inches (height)     12 inches (height)
*Smaller plant sizes are allowed adjacent to vacant land because it is assumed
that the plants will have time to grow before the vacant land is developed. For
this purpose, agricultural land is considered vacant
**Caliper is a measurement of the size of a tree equal to the diameter of its
trunk measured four and one-half feet above natural grade
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.04.07 BUFFERING REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT AND TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT.
   The following are the buffering requirements of listed permitted uses in
each district and certa special types of development. Special uses may be
required to have greater required buffers, but shall in all cases be required
to have at a minimum the same buffer as permitted uses.
   (A)   Multi-family residential developments shall be required to have the
following buffers:
      (1)   Adjacent business districts: none.
      (2)   Adjacent residential districts:
         (a)   Along streets outside the development: none.
         (b)   Along all other boundaries: “A”.
   (B)   All uses in the residential districts are not required to have
buffers, except as required for multi- family developments and except as may be
required for conditional uses.
   (C)   All uses in the B-1 and B-2 Business District shall be required to
have the following buffers:
      (1)   Adjacent residential districts:
         (a)   Along streets: “A”; and
         (b)   Along all other boundaries: “B”.
§ 6.04.08 BUFFERS NOT REQUIRED FOR EXISTING USES.
   Uses already existing at the time of the passage of this ordinance, or
subsequent amendments thereto, shall not have buffering requirements modified.
Such preexisting uses, which are conforming, shall not be required to install a
buffer along any public street. A change of use after the adoption of this
ordinance requires conformance with the buffering requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.05 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permanent off-street parking spaces shall be indicated on plans
submitted for review and provided on the lot in accordance with the following
requirements prior to the completion of construction of any building or
structure, or at the time any principal building or structure is enlarged or
increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, bedrooms or before conversion
from one zoning use or occupancy to another.
   (B)   Storm water run-off standards are required for all off-street parking
and driveways for the purpose of protecting surface water and ground water
quality, to protect and promote public health, safety and general welfare with
guided plans that limit storm water run-off, pollutants, road ponding and
environmental concerns and to avoid any further problems. The developer shall
provide surface water drainage plans. These plans shall indicate storm water
drainage supported by design computations. The design shall conform to the
standards as required by NCDOT, NCDWQ or other regulatory state agency.
      (1)   Permanent off-street parking spaces and driveways shall be graded
and paved with gravel, porous concrete, porous paving or an open-face paving
block over sand and filter-cloth base. If non-porous material is used to
construct the parking area or driveway on the property an engineered storm
water plan must be submitted as a supplement to the plat plan.
      (2)   Applicants must prove to the Planning Department that adequate
measures have been taken to contain the first inch and a half of rainfall in a
24-hour period.
      (3)   The engineered storm water plan for driveways is not allowed on any
property located in any Outstanding Resource Water (ORW) Area of Environmental
Concern (AEC). The state requirement of 25% built-upon will remain in effect.
Table 6-5 Parking Requirements
Land Uses Required Parking
Table 6-5 Parking Requirements
Land Uses                               Required Parking
Assembly, places of, including churches 1 parking space for each 5 seats in the
                                        largest assembly room
                                        1 parking space for each service chair,
Beauty and barber shops                 plus 1 additional parking space for
                                        each employee
                                        2 parking spaces per dwelling unit with
Residential                             fewer than 3 rooms, plus one per room
                                        for each additional room (excluding
                                        kitchen, bath, dining or living room)
                                        One off-street parking space provided
Bed and breakfast                       for each guest room in addition to
                                        requirements of Residential listed
                                        above.
Convalescent care                       1 space per 2 beds
                                        1 parking space for every 10 feet of
Fishing pier                            pier, plus additional parking for other
                                        uses in conjunction with the pier as
                                        required by this ordinance
Home occupations                        1 parking space per home occupation in
                                        addition to residence requirements
Libraries                               1 parking space for each 4 seats
                                        provided for patron use
Lodging facilities, including hotels,   1 parking space for each room to be
motels, rooming houses, tourist homes   rented, plus 1 additional parking space
and boardinghouses, bed and breakfast   for each 2 employees, plus additional
as may be required for any commercial   parking spaces
or business uses
Offices                                 1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of gross floor space
                                        1 parking space for each employee, plus
Public buildings                        1 parking space for each 5 seats in the
                                        largest assembly room
Recreational facilities not otherwise   1 parking space for each employee, plus
listed (without facilities for          1 parking space for every 2
spectators)                             participants at full capacity
Recreational facilities not otherwise   Same as for recreational facilities
listed (with facilities for spectators) without spectators, plus 1 parking
                                        space for every 4 spectator seats
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats at
Restaurants, cafeterias, private clubs  tables, and 1 parking space for each 2
and lounges                             seats at counters or bars, plus 1
                                        parking space for each 2 employees
Retail uses, financial institutions,    1 parking space for each 200 square
civic and fraternal clubs and community feet of gross floor area
centers
Schools, elementary and junior high or  1 parking space for each classroom and
middle schools, preschools and day care administrative office, plus 1 parking
facilities                              space for each employee and 1 large
                                        space for each bus
                                        1 parking space for each employee, plus
Services not otherwise listed           1 parking space for each client at full
                                        capacity
                                        5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
Shopping centers                        feet of gross leasable floor space in
                                        the center
                                        1 parking space for each 4 seats up to
Theaters, indoor                        400 seats, plus 1 space for each 6
                                        seats above 400
Video arcades                           1 parking space for every 4 game
                                        machines plus 1 space for each employee
                                        1 parking space for each employee, plus
Warehouses and other storage services   1 space for each vehicle used in the
                                        operation
 
(Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 3-3-2005; Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.05.02 OFF-STREET LOADING PURPOSE AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street loading requirements are established in order to ensure the
proper and uniform development of loading areas throughout the town, to relieve
traffic congestion in the streets, and to minimize any detrimental effects of
off-street loading areas on adjacent properties.
   (B)   Each application for a zoning permit or certificate of occupancy shall
include plans and other information of sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Administrator to determine whether or not the requirements of this section have
been met. Plans for off-street loading areas shall include information as to:
      (1)   The location and dimensions of driveway entrances, access aisles
and loading spaces;
      (2)   The provision for vehicular and pedestrian circulation; and
      (3)   The location of sidewalks and curbs.
   (C)   The zoning permit or certificate of occupancy for the construction or
use of any building, structure or land where off-street loading space is
required shall be withheld by the Zoning Administrator until the provisions of
this section have been met. If at any time such compliance ceases, any
certificate of occupancy which shall have been issued for the use of the
property shall immediately become void and of no effect.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 6.05.03 MINIMUM LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as specified in the
following schedule.
   (A)   For uses containing a gross floor area of less than 20,000 square
feet, each off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 15 feet in
width and 30 feet in length.
   (B)   For uses containing a gross floor area of 20,000 square feet or more,
each off-street loading space shall be 15 feet in width and 45 feet in length
as a minimum.
   (C)   Uses which normally handle large quantities of goods, including, but
not limited to, industrial plants, wholesale establishments, storage
warehouses, freight terminals, hospitals or sanitariums, and retail sales
establishments shall provide off-street loading facilities in the following
amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000 - 20,000                 1
20,001 - 50,000                2
50,001 - 80,000                3
80,001 - 125,000               4
For each additional 45,000     1 additional
 
   (D)   Uses which do not handle large quantities of goods, including, but not
limited to, office buildings, restaurants, funeral homes, hotels, motels,
apartment buildings and places of public assembly, shall provide off-street
loading facilities in the following amounts:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Number of Spaces Required
5,000 - 80,000                 1
80,001 - 200,000               2
200,001 - 320,000              3
320,001 - 500,000              4
For each additional 180,000    1 additional
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
ARTICLE 7: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
7.01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives
      (A)   Statutory authorization
      (B)   Findings of fact
      (C)   Statement of purpose
      (D)   Objectives
   
7.02   Definitions
   
7.03   General provisions
      (A)   Lands to which this article applies
      (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
      (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit
      (D)   Compliance
      (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions
      (F)   Interpretation
      (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability
      (H)   Penalties for violation
   
7.04   Administration
      (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
      (B)   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
      (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
      (D)   Corrective procedures
      (E)   Variance procedures
   
7.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
      (A)   General standards
      (B)   Specific standards
      (C)   Reserved
      (D)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
      (E)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas
      (F)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
      (G)   Coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE and AE)
      (H)   Standards for Coastal A Zones (Zone CAZ) LIMWA
   
7.06   Legal status provisions
      (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
      (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
      (C)   Severability
      (D)   Effective date
Editor’s note:
   Ord. passed 4-2-2009 amended Ch. 8 Flood Damage Prevention in its entirety
and enacted similar provisions as set out herein. The former Ch. 8 Flood Damage
Prevention derived from Ord. passed 11-3-2005
Staff’s note:
   Formerly Chapter 8, Flood Damage Prevention
Statutory references:
   Floodplains generally, see G.S. §§ 143-215.51 et seq.
§ 7.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACTS, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in G.S. Ch.
143, Art. 21, Part 6; G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 6; G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8; and G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 7, 9 and 11 (Effective January 1, 2021), delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the Board of Aldermen
of the town, does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this article to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this article are to:
      (1)   Protect human life, safety and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
      (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flood;
      (7)   Make flood insurance available to eligible properties in the
community through the National Flood Insurance Program;
      (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of the floodplains;
      (9)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
      (10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-
01, passed 6-4-2020)
§ 7.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined in Article 11, Definitions, words or phrases
used in this article shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they
have in common usage and to give this article its most reasonable application.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-4-2020)
§ 7.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this article applies. This article shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in FIS dated June 19, 2020, the
county and associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as
part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this article, and all revisions thereto.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
article prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of §
7.03(B).
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this article and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This article is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions; however, where this article and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this article,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. This article does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This article shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this article or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (H)   Penalties for violation. Violation of the provisions of this article
or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or
special exceptions, shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58. Any person who violates this article or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-4-2020)
§ 7.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Planning Director,
hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed
to administer and implement the provisions of this article. The Floodplain
Administrator may delegate performance of certain duties to other employees. In
instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from others to
complete tasks to administer and implement this article, the Floodplain
Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination and community’s overall
compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program and the provisions of this
article.
   (B)   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, zoning district, setbacks, percentage impervious surface, building
height, area of environmental concern, CAMA setbacks, wetland delineation and
the following specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
            (i)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
            (ii)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated
on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
7.03(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
            (iii)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
7.03(B);
            (iv)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s)
as determined in §
7.03(B);
            (v)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in
§§
7.03(B) and
7.04(C);
            (vi)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
            (vii)   The boundary and designation date of the coastal barrier
resource system (CBRS) area or otherwise protected areas (OPA), if applicable;
and
            (viii)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
         (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
            (i)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level of all structures;
            (ii)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-
residential structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO or A99 will be floodproofed; and
            (iii)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         (c)   Floodproofing is prohibited in lieu of elevation. However, if
non-residential floodproofing is used, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise
and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
         (d)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this article are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
            (i)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/sheer walls);
            (ii)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
7.05(B)(4)(d) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones V, A, AE,
AH, AO and A99; and
            (iii)   The following, in coastal high hazard areas, in accordance
with the provisions of §§
7.05(B)(4)(e) and
7.05(G) (§ 7.05(H), if applicable):
               1)   V-Zone certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs. Prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance, the
Floodplain Administrator may require that a registered professional engineer or
architect certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction;
               2)   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and
               3)   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the BFE or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection on to
the subject structure or adjacent properties.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (g)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §§
7.05(B)(6) and (7) are met; and
         (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e. house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with the available data specified in §
7.03(B);
         (c)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
7.05(F) have been met;
         (g)   The flood openings requirements, if in zones A, AE, AH, AO or
A99;
         (h)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (i.e., parking, building
access and limited storage only);
         (i)   A statement that there shall be no alteration of sand dunes
which would increase potential flood damage;
         (j)   A statement that there shall be no fill used for structural
support; and
         (k)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood-
resistant materials.
      (3)   Certification requirements.
         (a)   Plot plans and elevation certificates.
            (i)   A plot plan and an elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33)
is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
            (ii)   A foundation plan and an elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after the reference level is established. Within seven
calendar days of establishment of the reference level elevation, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea
level. Any work done within the seven-day calendar period and prior to
submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            (iii)   A final as-built survey and a final finished construction
elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference
level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. In some instances, another certification may be
required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished
construction elevation certificate certifier shall provide at least two
photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken within 90 days
from the date of certification. The photographs must be taken with views
confirming the building description and diagram number. To the extent possible,
these photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two additional
photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable,
provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the
flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least
three inches by three inches. Digital photographs are acceptable.
         (b)   Floodproofing certificate. Floodproofing is prohibited in lieu
of elevation. However, if non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the
regulatory flood protection elevation requirements:
            (i)   A floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational plan, and the
inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the
certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
            (ii)   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate
(FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed
design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in
relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to
certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (c)   Manufactured home. If a manufactured home is placed within Zones
A, AE, AH, AO, and A99 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches
in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
7.05(B)(3)(b).
         (d)   Watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, a
professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream, and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
         (e)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A99, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in items (a) and (b) of this
subsection:
            (i)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
7.05(B)(6)(a);
            (ii)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
7.05(B)(7); and
            (iii)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less or
that is a minimal investment of $5,000 or less and meeting requirements of §
7.05(B)(8).
         (f)   V-Zone certification. A V-Zone certification with accompanying
design plans and specifications is required prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit within coastal high hazard areas. It shall be the duty of
the permit applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said
certification to ensure the design standards of this article are met. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or review the
structural design, plans, and specifications for construction and certify that
the design and methods of construction to be used are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this article. This
certification is not a substitute for an elevation certificate. Prior to the
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance, the Floodplain Administrator may
require that a registered professional engineer or architect certify the
finished construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans
for VE Zone construction.
      (4)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Building Official, shall:
         (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the North
Carolina Building Code and this article is required.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this article have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been
received, including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Public
Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National
Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
7.05(F) are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level and all attendant utilities of all new and substantially
improved structures, in accordance with §
7.04(B)(3);
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of §
7.04(B)(3);
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
7.04(B)(3);
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
7.04(B)(3) and
7.05(B)(2);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment
areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article;
      (11)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with §
7.03(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
7.05(D)(2)(c), in order to administer the provisions of this article;
      (12)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with §
7.03(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this article;
      (13)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is
above the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a letter of
map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. However, if the property is to be removed from
the V Zone it must not be located seaward of the landward toe of the primary
frontal dune. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain
development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this article and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local article and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this article, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
7.04(D);
      (20)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with §
7.03(B), including any revisions thereto including letters of map change,
issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
   (D)   Corrective procedures.
      (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
      (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         (a)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
         (b)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator
at a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may
issue an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
      (3)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that
the building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
article, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner
to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60
calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property,
they may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be
feasible.
      (4)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local
governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      (5)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the
court.
   (E)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this article.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Article 11, Definitions, provided provisions of §
7.04(E)(9)(b),(c) and (e) have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; and
         (c)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
      (4)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this article, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under Article 11 as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this article, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
article.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the state upon request.
      (9)   Conditions for variances:
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non- encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval; and
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            (i)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            (ii)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            (iii)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or this article.
      (10)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical
storage facilities that are in special flood hazard areas if all of the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws; and
         (e)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2009; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-
01, passed 6-4-2020; Ord. passed 10-1-2020)
§ 7.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, flood damage-resistant materials
requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or
above the RFPE or designed and installed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components during the occurrence of the base flood.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
         (a)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
         (b)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the
addition and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new
construction consistent with the code and requirements for the original
structure.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
article and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this article.
      (9)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
7.04(E)(10). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
7.04(B)(3).
      (10)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
      (14)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (15)   When a structure is located in multiple food hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
      (16)   Fill shall not be used for structural support. This includes not
approving conditional letters or letters of map revision - based on fill
(CLOMR-F or LOMR-F).
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where BFE data
has been provided, as set forth in §§
7.03(B) or
7.05(D), the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
7.05(A), are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Article 11.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level elevated no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in Article 11. Structures located in Zones V,
VE, A, AE, AH, AO and A99 may not be floodproofed to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in lieu of elevation.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in Article 11.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
7.05(B)(4).
         (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor or below the
lowest horizontal structural member in VE zones:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   May be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
         (c)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (d)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A99, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            (i)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (ii)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least
one square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            (iii)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
            (iv)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            (v)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            (vi)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
         (e)   Shall, in coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE and AE), meet the
requirements of §
7.05(G).
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (i)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
            (ii)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/
rehabilitations/improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is
structurally modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing
structure and the addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM and post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            (i)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure; and
            (ii)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-
year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply
with the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the
one-year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this article.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. (The repetitive
loss portion is optional, but will be required for flood insurance policy
holders to be eligible for increased cost of compliance (ICC) benefits for
repetitive losses.) If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any
repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
            (i)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
            (ii)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Temporary placement.
            (i)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
            (ii)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and has no
permanently attached additions.)
         (b)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
      (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structures.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
7.05(A)(1);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
7.05(A)(4); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
7.05(B)(4)(d).
         (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet or that is a minimal investment of $5,000 or less and satisfies the
criteria outlined above is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing
standards of §
7.05(B)(2). Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all
other accessory structures in accordance with §
7.04(B)(3).
      (9)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
         (b)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements shall be not be permitted in V, VE, A, AE
Zones. Tanks may be permitted in other flood hazard areas provided the tanks
are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related
and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the
design flood and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration
by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed,
and anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on
an empty tank during design flood conditions.
         (d)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
            (i)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
            (ii)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
      (10)   Other development.
         (a)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential
to block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh
fences, shall meet the limitations of §
7.05(F).
         (b)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways
and NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the
placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
7.05(F).
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
7.05(F).
         (d)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered “limited
storage” as noted in this article, and shall be protected to the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation as required for commercial structures.
   (C)   Reserved.
   (D)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
7.03(B), where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to the provisions of §
7.05 (A), shall apply:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria.
         (a)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new
construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply
with all applicable provisions of this article and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in §
7.05(A) and (B).
         (b)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a
federal, state or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of §
7.05(B) and (F).
         (c)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
7.03(B) and utilized in implementing this article.
         (d)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in Article 11. All other applicable provisions of §
7.05(B) shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and
streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special
flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements
shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   Standards of §
7.05(A) and (B); and
      (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
   (F)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways or
non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
7.03(B). The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §
7.05(A) and (B), shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If §
7.05(F)(1) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this article.
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
7.05(B)(3); and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of §
7.05(F)(1).
   (G)   Coastal high hazard area (Zones VE and AE). Coastal high hazard areas
are special flood hazard areas established in §
7.03(B), and designated as Zones VE and AE. These areas have special flood
hazards associated with high velocity waters from storm surges or seismic
activity and, therefore, all new construction and substantial improvements
shall meet the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
7.05 (A) and (B):
      (1)   All new development and accessories shall:
         (a)   Be located landward of the ocean hazard setback for development
as determined by the Division of Coastal Management in 15A NCAC 07H.0306, and
any amendments thereto;
         (b)   Comply with all applicable ocean hazard setbacks for development
in 15A NCAC 07H.0309 except for 15A NCAC 07H.0309(a)(5) (unenclosed,
unhabitable gazebos with a footprint of 200 square feet or less), (6)
uninhabitable, single-story storage sheds with a foundation or floor consisting
of wood, clay, packed sand or gravel, and a footprint of 200 square feet or
less), and (9) (swimming pools) which are hereby prohibited within the ocean
hazard setback.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated
so that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any structures in
coastal high hazard areas to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation
requirements.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the
space below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor free of obstruction or constructed with breakaway walls, open wood
latticework or insect screening, provided they are not part of the structural
support of the building and are designed so as to break away, under abnormally
high tides or wave action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the
structural integrity of the building. The following design specifications shall
be met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice having at
least 40% of its area open;
         (b)   Insect screening; or
         (c)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            (1)   Breakaway walls shall have flood openings that allow for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to minimize damage caused by
hydrostatic loads, per §
7.05 (B)(4)(d) (i)-(vi); and
            (2)   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            (3)   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
      (4)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structure attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
         (a)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood.
         (b)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the State Building Code.
      (5)   For concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, pool decks etc., the following is required:
         (a)   Pad thickness shall not exceed four inches;
         (b)   Shall be structurally independent of the primary structural
foundation system of the structure and shall not adversely affect structures
through redirection of floodwaters or debris; and
         (c)   Shall be constructed to break away cleanly during design flood
conditions, shall be frangible and shall not produce debris capable of causing
damage to any structure. (The installation of concrete in small segments
(approximately four feet by four feet) that will easily break up during the
base flood event, or score concrete in four feet by four feet maximum segments
is acceptable to meet this standard); and
         (d)   Reinforced, including welded wire fabric, shall not be used in
order to minimize the potential for concreted pads being a source of debris; or
         (e)   Provide a design professional’s certification stating the design
and method of construction to be used meet the applicable criteria of this
section.
      (6)   For swimming pools and spas, the following is required:
         (a)   Be designed to withstand all flood-related loads and load
combinations.
         (b)   Be elevated so that the lowest horizontal structural member is
elevated above the RFPE;
         (c)   Be designed and constructed to break away during design flood
conditions without producing debris capable of causing damage to any structure;
         (d)   Be sited to remain in the ground during design flood conditions
without obstructing flow that results in damage to any structure;
         (e)   Registered design professionals must certify to local officials
that a pool or spa beneath or near a VE Zone building will not be subject to
flotation or displacement that will damage building foundations or elevated
portions of the building or any nearby buildings during a coastal flood; or
         (f)   Pool equipment shall be located above the RFPE whenever
practicable. Pool equipment shall not be located beneath an elevated structure.
      (7)   All elevators, vertical platform lifts, chair lifts and the like,
the following is required:
         (a)   Elevator enclosures must be designed to resist hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic forces as well as erosion, scour and waves.
         (b)   Utility equipment in coastal high hazard areas (VE and AE Zones)
must not be mounted on, pass through or be located along breakaway walls.
         (c)   The cab, machine/equipment room, hydraulic pump, hydraulic
reservoir, counter weight and roller guides, hoist cable, limit switches,
electric hoist motor, electrical junction box, circuit panel, and electrical
control panel are all required to be above RFPE. When this equipment cannot be
located above the RFPE, it must be constructed using flood damage-resistant
components.
         (d)   Drainage must be provided for the elevator pit.
         (e)    Flood damage-resistant materials can also be used inside and
outside the elevator cab to reduce flood damage. Use only stainless steel doors
and door frames below the BFE. Grouting in of door frames and sills is
recommended.
         (f)   If an elevator is designed to provide access to areas below the
BFE, it shall be equipped with a float switch system that will activate during
a flood and send the elevator cab to a floor above the RFPE.
      (8)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below elevated structures.
      (9)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions of §§
7.04(B) and
7.05(G)(3) and (4), on the current version of the North Carolina V-Zone
Certification form or equivalent local version. Prior to the certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance, the Floodplain Administrator may require that a
registered professional engineer or architect certify the finished construction
is compliant with the design, specifications and plans for VE Zone
construction.
      (10)   Fill/grading:
         (a)   Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of non-
structural fill may be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes
under and around buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios
and walkways.
         (b)   The fill material must be similar and consistent with the
natural soils in the area.
         (c)   The placement of site-compatible, non-structural fill under or
around an elevated building is limited to two feet. Fill greater than two feet
must include an analysis prepared by a qualified registered design professional
demonstrating no harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave
reflection that would increase damage to adjacent elevated buildings and
structures.
         (d)   Non-structural fill with finished slopes that are steeper than
five units horizontal to one unit vertical shall be permitted only if an
analysis prepared by a qualified registered design professional demonstrates no
harmful diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would
increase damage to adjacent elevated buildings and structures.
         (e)   Fill for structural support is prohibited in the SFHA which
should be consistent with §
7.05(A)(17).
      (11)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands
which would increase potential flood damage.
      (12)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of this section have been satisfied.
      (13)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in coastal high hazard
areas provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
7.05(B)(6)(a).
      (14)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure
shall have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation and any supporting members that
extend below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall comply with the
foundation requirements that apply to the building or structure, which shall be
designed to accommodate any increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
The increased loads must be considered in the design of the primary structure
and included in the V-Zone Certification required under §
7.04(B)(3)(f).
      (15)   A deck or patio that is located below the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be structurally independent from buildings or
structures and their foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed
either to remain intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break
apart into small pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of
causing structural damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings
and structures.
      (16)   In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than
buildings and structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the
appropriate state or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and
not structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses
prepared by qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities
include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments and similar
erosion control structures; and
         (b)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters.
         (c)   Docks, piers, and similar structures.
   (H)   Standards for Coastal A Zones (Zone CAZ) LIMWA. Structures in CAZs
shall be designed and constructed to meet V Zone requirements, including
requirements for breakaway walls. However, the NFIP regulations also require
flood openings in walls surrounding enclosures below elevated buildings in CAZs
(see Technical Bulletin 1, openings in foundation walls and walls of
enclosures). Breakaway walls used in CAZs must have flood openings that allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to minimize damage caused by
hydrostatic loads. Openings also function during smaller storms or if
anticipated wave loading does not occur with the base flood.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated
so that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor (excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any structures in
Coastal A Zones to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation
requirements.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the
space below the lowest horizontal structural member free of obstruction or
constructed with breakaway walls, open wood latticework or insect screening,
provided they are not part of the structural support of the building and are
designed so as to break away, under abnormally high tides or wave action
without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting
foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the structural integrity of the
building. The following design specifications shall be met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice having at
least 40% of its area open;
         (b)   Insect screening; or
         (c)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            (1)   Breakaway walls shall have flood openings to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the design criteria
in §
7.05(B)(4)(d);
            (2)   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than 10 nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            (3)   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
      (3)   Concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways and the like must meet the provisions of §
7.05(G)(5).
      (4)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
provisions of §
7.05(G)(3).
      (5)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions of §§
7.04(B) and
7.05(G)(3) and (4), on the current version of the North Carolina V-Zone
certification form or a locally developed V-Zone certification form.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in Coastal A Zones provided
that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
7.05(B)(6)(a).
      (7)   Fill/grading must meet the provisions of §
7.05(G)(11).
      (8)   Fill for structural support is prohibited in the SFHA which should
be consistent with §
7.05(A)(17).
      (9)   Decks and patios must meet the provisions of §
7.05(G)(15) and (16).
      (10)   In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than
buildings and structures must meet the provisions of §
7.05(G)(17).
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-4-2020;
Ord. passed 10-1-2020; Ord. passed 1-8-2025)
§ 7.06 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
      (1)   This article in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted May 2, 1990, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this article shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of the town enacted on May 2, 1990, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
      (2)   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for the
county is July 2, 1987.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this article; provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   Severability. If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of the
article is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then said holding shall in no way effect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article.
   (D)   Effective date. This article shall become effective June 19, 2020.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 11-3-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-4-2020)
ARTICLE 8: SIGNS
Section
   
8.01   Statement of purpose
   
8.02   Scope
   
8.03   General requirements
   
8.03.01   Permits, drawings and specifications
   
8.04   Exemptions
   
8.04.01   Signs exempt from regulation
   
8.04.02   Signs that do not require a permit
   
8.04.03   Noncommercial messages
   
8.05   Prohibited signs
   
8.06   Display of street address numbers
   
8.07   Signs permitted in the Business 1 and 2 District
   
8.08   Signs permitted in residential districts
   
8.09   Temporary signs
   
8.10   Institutional signs
   
8.11   Illumination
   
8.12   Maintenance
§ 8.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   Sign regulations are established to ensure public safety, protect and
stabilize property values; eliminate confusing, distracting and unsafe signs;
assure efficient transfer of information; and maintain the aesthetic quality of
the town, while still allowing for the identification of residential, office,
commercial, industrial and other activities. Sign regulations govern the
nature, location and size of signs in addition to providing standards for the
erection and maintenance of signs. Sign regulations encourage the effective use
of signs as a means of communication within the town, and minimize possible
adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private property. Compliance with
sign regulations result in a pleasing community image and generally enhance the
economic stability of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2014-7, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 8.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this article shall apply to the erection and maintenance
of all signs within the town. It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign that
is inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance. It shall also be
unlawful to alter or move any sign in existence prior to the enactment of this
ordinance, except to bring the existing sign into compliance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011) Penalty, see §
10.06
§ 8.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
§ 8.03.01 PERMITS, DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign or sign structure
without first obtaining the required permits unless the proposed sign falls
within the list of exemptions. Application for the permit shall be made in
writing on forms furnished by the Zoning Administrator. Building and electrical
permits are required pursuant to the 2012 State Building Code Appendix H, as
amended. Those forms are to be signed by the applicant. Failure to apply for a
permit prior to the erection of a sign represents a violation of this article.
   (B)   Submittal requirements:
      (1)   Site plan of property showing sign location from all property
lines. The town may require a survey to verify property lines and setbacks.
      (2)   An elevation shall be provided to show sign dimensions.
      (3)   Construction documents shall be required with sign applications,
2012 State Building Code Appendix H, as amended. These documents shall show the
dimensions, material and required details of construction, including loads,
stresses and anchors, if not otherwise exempt.
      (4)   The applicant may request a pre-application meeting to consult with
the Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.04 EXEMPTIONS.
§ 8.04.01 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   (A)   Signs that are not designed to be visible beyond the boundaries of the
lot which they are located on from any public thoroughfare or public right-of-
way, except such signs that may be regulated hereinafter.
   (B)   Official government notices or any sign erected by government
officials.
   (C)   Flags, pennants or insignias of any nation, organization of nations,
state, county or town, any religious, civic or fraternal organization, or any
educational or cultural facility.
   (D)   Temporary decorations that are clearly incidental to and customarily
associated with any national, local or religious event/holiday.
   (E)   Any sign erected by public utility or construction companies that warn
of dangerous or hazardous conditions, or denote the presence of underground
cables, pipes, electrical wires and similar devices.
   (F)   Signs that display information paramount to the safety or legal
responsibility of the public relating to a particular piece of property.
Commercial advertisements are not to be included on these signs.
   (G)   Signs designated to be historically significant and/or signs that
denote landmarks.
   (H)   Temporary signs providing directions to a recognized local community
festival or event.
   (I)   Signs affixed to windows of vehicles indicating that said vehicle is
for sale.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.04.02 SIGNS THAT DO NOT REQUIRE A PERMIT.
   (A)   Real estate signs indicating the sale, long-term rental or lease of
the property on which the signs are located. Said signs are not to exceed six
square feet per face on properties zoned residential. Two signs are allowed per
property. In cases of commercially zoned property (B-1, B-2) or three or more
contiguous residential lots, a single sign, not to exceed 18 square feet and
the dimensions of three feet by six feet, is permitted. The signs are not to be
illuminated and must be removed 60 days after the closing or lease of the
property.
   (B)   Political signs representing candidates for election or issues present
on a ballot shall be allowed in all zoning districts. Such signs are not to
exceed six square feet per face. Signs shall not contain more than two faces.
Signs on private property may be posted only after the official campaign period
has begun. Signs must be removed within five days following the appropriate
election. Property owners and political candidates are equally responsible for
the removal of signs. Signs in a right-of-way shall comply with G.S. § 136-32,
as amended.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-7-2015; Ord. 2016-1, passed 4-7-
2016; Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-3-2018)
§ 8.04.03 NONCOMMERCIAL MESSAGES.
   Any sign, display or device allowed under this article may contain any
otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not promote a business
operated for profit or a commodity or service for sale and that complies with
the size, lighting and spacing requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.05 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs on roadside appurtenances, including, but not limited to,
roadside benches, planters, utility poles, trees and refuse containers are
prohibited, with the exception of governmental signs.
   (B)   Temporary or permanent signs located within the right-of-way of any
street or highway with the exception of directional signs which should be
single faced and no more than two square feet, provided, however, political
signs are not prohibited pursuant to G.S. § 136-32.
   (C)   Signs with the optical illusion of movement by means of a design which
presents a pattern capable of reversible perspective, giving the illusion of
movement are prohibited.
   (D)   Signs that by shape or characteristic resemble traffic signals or the
flashing lights or emergency vehicles and/or traffic lights are prohibited,
along with any signs that conveys any a signal that could be misconstrued as a
public safety warning.
   (E)   Animated or flashing signs are prohibited.
   (F)   Abandoned signs or structures are prohibited.
   (G)   Signs that obstruct the ingress to or egress from a driveway or
required door, window, fire escape or any required exit.
   (H)   Roof signs are prohibited.
   (I)   Any sign that copies or imitates an official sign, or reasonably
appears to purport to have an official status.
   (J)   All “No Parking” signs not installed by a governmental entity shall be
placed no closer than fifteen feet from the edge of any public right-of-way.
   (K)   There shall be no more than two non-commercial signs placed upon any
single parcel.
   (L)   No non-commercial signs shall exceed six square feet.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2014-7, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 8.06 DISPLAY OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Road address numbers must be clearly displayed so that the location
can be identified easily from the road.
      (1)   The official address number must be displayed on the front of a
building or at the entrance to a building which is most clearly visible from
the street or road during both day and night.
      (2)   If a building is more than 75 feet from any road measured from the
center of the road, the address number shall be displayed at the end of the
driveway or easement nearest the road which provides access to the building.
      (3)   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the road.
      (4)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be placed on the front of
the building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the road.
      (5)   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
   (B)   The Planning Director may authorize and approve alternate methods of
displaying building numbers which meet the intent of this ordinance when strict
adherence to these standards cannot reasonably be met.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.07 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE BUSINESS 1 AND 2 DISTRICT.
   Within the Business 1 and 2 Districts as shown on the zoning map, only the
following types of signs shall be permitted:
   (A)   Permanent wall signs shall be permitted for each separate business
establishment provided the total allowable sign area for all such signs shall
not exceed one-half square foot for each lineal foot of building wall facing a
public street. The location and number of wall signs is at the option of the
owner or tenant; however, where more than four signs are located on any lot,
the fifth such sign and each succeeding sign, respectively, shall reduce the
total allowable sign area by 20%. Wall signs shall not project higher than the
building eave or 30 feet, whichever is lower. Street number numerals shall not
count in this requirement;
   (B)   One identification sign per business establishment may be suspended
from or attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided such sign
does not exceed six square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at
least seven and one-half feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign;
   (C)   Restaurants shall be permitted one freestanding sign if the business
is located on a corner lot or has at least 100 feet of street frontage. Such
freestanding sign shall not exceed 20 feet in height or 20 square feet in sign
area per side and shall be located on private property such that no part of the
sign shall project over any public right-of-way or another lot; and
   (D)   Where there is a front yard of at least 50 feet in depth, a
freestanding identification sign shall be permitted in the front yard. Such
sign must be set back a minimum of ten feet from any property line or public
right-of-way, shall not exceed 14 feet in height above ground level, and shall
not exceed 160 square feet in area. Illumination shall be limited to indirect
white lighting.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.08 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permanent identification signs for subdivisions and residential
developments not exceeding 20 square feet in area. One sign may be erected at
each major entrance to the subdivision, but shall be located on private
property. No sign shall exceed six feet in height above ground level, and
illumination shall be restricted to indirect white lighting.
   (B)   Permanent identification signs for campgrounds not exceeding six
square feet in area. One sign may be erected at each major entrance to the
campground but shall be located on private property. No sign shall exceed six
feet in height above ground level. Illumination shall be limited to indirect
white lighting.
   (C)   One permanent identification sign for multi-family residential
developments may be erected at each major entrance to the property. Such signs
shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and may be flat mounted against the
wall of an apartment building or freestanding. If freestanding, shall not
exceed six feet in height above ground level. Illumination shall be limited to
indirect white lighting.
   (D)   One identification sign for each home occupation is permitted, but
shall not project higher than two feet above ground level, and shall not exceed
six square feet in area.
   (E)   Temporary signs as permitted by §
8.09.
   (F)   All signs under §
8.04, “Exemptions” (including “Signs Exempt From Regulation”; “Signs that Do
Not Require a Permit” and “Noncommercial Messages”) permitted in residential
districts. No other signs are permitted.
   (G)   No other signs other than those indicated herein (in §
8.08) are permitted in any residential district.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2014-7, passed 7-9-2014; Ord. 18-04, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
10.06
§ 8.09 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary signs, except real estate signs and political signs, require
a temporary sign permit. No temporary sign may exceed three feet by six feet
(18 square feet). The display of a temporary sign shall not exceed 30 days. No
more than two temporary sign permits, per business, can be issued in any one
calendar year. Temporary signs include banners for special temporary events and
uses, such as grand openings and special events.
   (B)   Seasonal rental signs shall be attached to the structure or placed in
ground and not within the right-of-way and not to exceed two feet in height.
All seasonal rental signs shall not exceed two square feet. One seasonal rental
sign is allowed for each rental property.
   (C)   Temporary construction signs shall be allowed if such signs are
limited to one sign per road frontage and no more than two signs are present
per property. Such signs are not to exceed six square feet in areas zoned
residential and are not to exceed three feet by six feet (18 square feet) in
areas zoned commercial. Construction signs must be removed within 60 days of
the final inspection or issuance of certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   Temporary signs related to service providers require a temporary sign
permit. Any such signs are limited to display for a maximum of 30 days from the
date of the issuance of the permit and shall be a minimum of three square feet
and shall not exceed a maximum of six square feet.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-3-2018)
§ 8.10 INSTITUTIONAL SIGNS.
   Signs erected by schools, churches and hospitals and other institutions are
permitted in all districts, but the size of any such signs shall not be in
excess of 100 square feet. If such sign is freestanding, it shall not be closer
than ten feet from any property line and shall not project higher than 20 feet
above ground level. If the sign is a wall sign, it shall not project higher
than 20 feet above ground level or the maximum height permitted in the
district, whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.11 ILLUMINATION.
   Where illuminated signs are permitted, they shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   All signs illuminated under the provisions of this section shall be
constructed to meet the requirements of the 2012 State Building Code § H106, as
amended.
   (B)   Signs which contain, include, or are lighted by any flashing,
intermittent or moving lights are prohibited, except those giving public
information such as time, temperature and date.
   (C)   Illuminated signs shall be limited to those lighted internally with
glass or plastic faces bearing the advertisements; provided, however, that
exposed neon tubing and exposed incandescent or other bulbs not exceeding 15
watts each shall be permitted.
   (D)   Flood and display lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent direct
rays of light from being cast into a residential area or district and/or
vehicles approaching on a public right-of-way from any direction. Such lighting
shall also be shielded so as to prevent view of the light source from a
residence or residential district and/or vehicles approaching on a public
right-of-way from any direction.
   (E)   Flame as a source of light is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 8.12 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The following maintenance requirements must be observed for all signs
visible from any public street or highway within the jurisdiction of this
article.
      (1)   No sign shall have more than 20% of its surface area covered with
disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint or poster paper for a period of
more than 30 successive days.
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing,
broken supports, loose appendages or struts or be allowed to stand more than 15
degrees away from the perpendicular for a period of more than 30 successive
days.
      (3)   No sign shall be allowed to have weeds, vines, landscaping or other
vegetation growing upon it and obscuring its view from the street or highway
from which it is to be viewed for a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (4)   No neon or internally illuminated sign may be allowed to stand with
only partial illumination for a period of more than 30 successive days.
      (5)   If a sign or sign structure is damaged due to factors other than
vandalism or other criminal or tortious acts such that more than 50% of the
value is lost, with such determination made by the Planning Director, any
repair or replacement must be done in conformance with this article. If a sign
or sign structure is damaged due to vandalism or other criminal or tortious
acts, it may be repaired or replaced, regardless of cost, but must be repaired
or replaced as previously permitted or if no permit exists, it must be repaired
or replaced to the same specifications to which and with the same materials of
which the sign was constructed immediately prior to the act which caused the
damage.
   (B)   The Planning Director may inspect all signs for compliance with these
maintenance requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
Table 8-1 Allowed Sign Types by Zoning District
   The following chart indicates the type and maximum size (in square feet) of
signs permitted in each zoning district. If the sign chart gives no numerical
maximum size, then the indicated type of sign is not permitted in the indicated
zoning district:
Zoning District All Residential All Commercial
Zoning District           All Residential                    All Commercial
Business and professional                                   100 sq. ft.
Campground                                                  6 sq. ft.
Church/school/parks       50 sq. ft.                         50 sq. ft.
Directional               4 sq. ft.                          10 sq. ft.
Home occupation           6 sq. ft.; height 2 ft.             
Real estate for sale/rent 6 sq. ft. or 3 ft. x 6 ft. (18 sq.  
                          ft.) for 3 or more contiguous lots
Residential developments  20 sq. ft.                          
   
   These regulations shall be interpreted to permit one freestanding sign,
either single-faced or double-faced, for each permitted use on the lot or
premises.
   Signs intended to advertise the sale or rental of any single item, residence
or property on the same premises shall be permitted provided that the business
sign requirements for the district in which the article is located are met.
Such signs shall be removed upon the sale or rental of the item, residence or
property.
   Portable signs meeting area and height limits of this section and
advertising businesses on the same property on which they are located may be
permitted as a temporary use provided they are removed within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2018-02, passed 5-3-2018)
ARTICLE 9: NONCONFORMITIES
Section
   
9.01   Nonconforming uses
   
9.01.01   Existing nonconforming uses
   
9.01.02   Changing nonconforming uses
   
9.01.03   Restoring nonconforming uses
   
9.02   Nonconforming lots
   
9.03   Nonconforming structures
§ 9.01 NONCONFORMING USES.
§ 9.01.01 EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES.
   The lawful use of land and/or buildings existing at the time of adoption of
the various regulations from which this ordinance derives, although such use
does not conform to the provisions of this ordinance, shall not be affected by
this ordinance; provided, however, that no such nonconforming use shall be
enlarged or increased, nor shall any nonconforming use be extended to occupy a
greater area of land than that occupied by such use at the time of the passage
of the various regulations from which this ordinance derives. If such
nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of more than 365
days, any future use of the land and/or building shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 9.01.02 CHANGING NONCONFORMING USES.
   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to any use other than either a
permitted use or special use for the district in which the nonconforming use is
located; provided, before the nonconforming use can be changed to a special
use, it must have met the conditions and requirements of the special use as
contained in this ordinance, and the nonconforming use must have been issued a
special use permit by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 9.01.03 RESTORING NONCONFORMING USES.
   In cases not covered by §
9.01.01, no provision in this ordinance shall prevent the restoration of a
nonconforming use in which the building has been damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, other casualty or act of God, if the restoration of such building is
commenced within one year of the date such damage and completed within the
period of validity of the building permit issued therefore.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 9.02 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   Any lot of record or structure existing at the time of the adoption of this
article (May 2, 1990), which has dimensions which do not meet the requirements
of this article, shall be subject to the following exceptions and
modifications.
   (A)   Adjoining lots. When two or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in one ownership at any time after the adoption of this article,
and such lots individually are less than the minimum square footage and/or have
less than the minimum width required in the district in which they are located,
then such group of lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of
minimum permitted area and width for the district in which located.
   (B)   Lot not meeting minimum lot size requirements. Except as set forth in
the above, in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, any
lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of these regulations which
has dimensions which are less than required by these regulations may be used as
a building site for a single-family dwelling providing the lot area and width
are not less than 80% of the requirements in the district. If the lot is
smaller or narrower, a variance may be requested of the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   Yard requirements modified. Except as set forth in subsection (A)
above, where a lot has width or depth less than that required in the district
in which it is located, the Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to reduce
the yard requirements for such lot by not more than 20%. Additional or other
forms of yard modification may be permitted with a variance granted by the
Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Enlargement of nonconforming structures. Any building which is
nonconforming solely because of its encroachment in a required yard area may be
extended in any lawful manner that does not further encroach in that yard.
   (E)   Repair or rebuilding. Nothing in the zoning ordinance shall prohibit
the repair or rebuilding of any fire escapes, steps, outside stairways,
balconies, sills, cornices, eaves, gutters, buttresses, ornamental features or
similar items in existence at the time of the adoption of this amendment even
though the rebuilding or repair requires continued encroachment into the
required yard setbacks; however, any rebuilding or repair may not extend the
encroachment beyond that encroachment of the original feature.
(Ord. passed 9-1-2008; Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 9.03 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Nonconforming structures may be improved or expanded, provided that any
addition to, improvement to or expansion of the nonconforming building must
comply with the minimum front, side and rear yard setbacks as well as other
dimensional requirements for the district in which it is located, and the
addition to, improvement or expansion may not increase the nonconformity of the
structure. Repair, restoration, expansion and reconstruction of existing duplex
and multi-family structures within the inlet hazard area are allowed
applicable.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2013-4, passed 8-1-2013)
ARTICLE 10: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
10.01   Responsible persons
   
10.01.01   Owner
   
10.01.02   Tenant
   
10.01.03   Licensee
   
10.02   Violations
   
10.02.01   Development without a permit
   
10.02.02   Development inconsistent with a permit
   
10.02.03   Violation of conditions imposed
   
10.02.04   Use in violation
   
10.02.05   Subdivide in violation
   
10.02.06   Violation of requirements for outdoor swimming pools, spas and hot
tubs
   
10.02.07   Violation of operating standards for existing travel trailer parks
   
10.02.08   Violations of sign regulations
   
10.03   Continued violations
   
10.04   Recurring violations
   
10.05   Enforcement generally
   
10.05.01   Complaints regarding violations
   
10.05.02   Enforcement of flood damage prevention regulations
   
10.05.03   Enforcement of sign regulations
   
10.06   General remedies and penalties
   
10.06.01   Equitable remedies through the courts
   
10.06.02   Equitable remedies through the town
   
10.06.03   Criminal penalties
   
10.06.04   Civil penalties
   
10.06.05   Cumulative penalties
   
10.07   Special remedies and penalties
   
10.07.01   Flood damage prevention regulations
   
10.07.02   Rebuilding of damaged dunes
   
10.07.03   Replacement of damaged trees
   
10.07.04   Violation of sign regulations
   
10.07.05   Install and maintain effective sedimentation and erosion control
measures
   
10.07.06   Wetland protection
   
10.08   Building Code enforcement
   
10.08.01   Definitions
   
10.08.02   Building Code administration
   
10.08.03   Qualifications of inspectors
   
10.08.04   Duties and responsibilities
   
10.08.05   Other arrangements for inspections
   
10.08.06   Alternate inspection method for component or element
   
10.08.07   Mutual aid contracts
   
10.08.08   Conflicts of interest
   
10.08.09   Failure to perform duties
   
10.08.10   Building permits
   
10.08.11   Expiration of building permits
   
10.08.12   Changes in work
   
10.08.13   Inspections of work in progress
   
10.08.14   Appeals of stop orders
   
10.08.15   Revocation of building permits
   
10.08.16   Certificates of compliance; temporary certificates of compliance
   
10.08.17   Periodic inspections
   
10.08.18   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
10.08.19   Unsafe buildings condemned
   
10.08.20   Removing notice from condemned building
   
10.08.21   Action in event of failure to take corrective action
   
10.08.22   Order to take corrective action
   
10.08.23   Appeal; finality of order if not appealed
   
10.08.24   Failure to comply with order
   
10.08.25   Enforcement
   
10.08.26   Records and reports
   
10.08.27   Appeals
   
10.08.28   Fire limits
   
10.08.29   Regulation authorized as to repair, closing, and demolition of
nonresidential buildings or structures; order of public officer
   
10.08.30   Vacant building receivership
§ 10.01 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
§ 10.01.01 OWNER.
   The owner of each property located within the town is responsible for
ensuring that development, redevelopment, use of the land and improvements to
land on that property occur and are maintained in compliance with this
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.01.02 TENANT.
   Each tenant of property located within the town is responsible for ensuring
that the use of the land and improvements to land on that property occur and
are maintained in compliance with this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.01.03 LICENSEE.
   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of engaging in a
business within the town is responsible for investigating and adhering to all
federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations including, but not limited
to permits, licenses, insurance, taxes and safety compliance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02 VIOLATIONS.
   Any of the following shall be a violation of this unified development
ordinance and shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties
provided by this article and state law:
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.01 DEVELOPMENT WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling or other
activity of any natures upon land or improvements thereto subject to the
jurisdiction of this ordinance without all the required permits, certificate or
other forms of authorization as set forth in this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.02 DEVELOPMENT INCONSISTENT WITH A PERMIT.
   To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling or other
activity of any nature upon land or improvements thereto inconsistent with any
approved plan, permit, certificate or other forms of authorization as set forth
in this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.03 VIOLATION OF CONDITIONS IMPOSED.
   To violate by act or omission any term, variance, modification, condition or
qualification placed by the Planning Director, in accordance with this
ordinance, upon any required permit, certificate or other form of authorization
for the use, development or other activity upon land or improvements thereto.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.04 USE IN VIOLATION.
   To use any building, structure or land in violation or contravention of this
ordinance or any other regulation made under the authority of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.05 SUBDIVIDE IN VIOLATION.
   To subdivide land in violation or to transfer land, sell land by reference
to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat or map showing a subdivision of
land before the plat or map has been properly approved under this ordinance and
recorded in the County Register of Deeds. The description by metes and bounds
in the instrument of transfer of other documents used in the process of selling
or transferring land does not exempt the transaction from violation of this
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.06 VIOLATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT
TUBS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of §
4.03.10 exists, the violation shall be considered a public nuisance, and the
Administrator shall give written notice to the owner, occupant, tenant, manager
or property management company of the property upon which such nuisance exists
and/or upon the owner, occupant, tenant, manager or property management company
causing, maintaining or allowing the nuisance to exist. If, upon reasonable
diligence, the owner, occupant, tenant, manager or property management company
responsible for the nuisance cannot be determined or located, then the
Administrator shall post the notice on the property.
   (B)   The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a stated time, not to exceed
ten days from the date of mailing or the date of posting;
      (2)   An order allowing the violator to request a hearing within a stated
time, not to exceed ten days from the date of receipt of the mailing or, if the
owner, occupant, tenant, manager or property management company responsible for
the nuisance cannot be determined or located, then no later than ten days from
the date of posting;
      (3)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (4)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (5)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (6)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the town will abate
such nuisance, assess the cost thereof against such person, and pursue
appropriate criminal and/or civil penalties.
      (7)   Service of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served
by certified mail or personally delivered to the violator. If, upon reasonable
diligence, the owner, occupant, tenant, manager or property management company
responsible for the nuisance cannot be determined or located, then the
Administrator shall post the notice on the property in a location visible from
the nearest street.
      (8)   Persons liable. The owner, tenant, occupant, manager or land
management company of any building or land or part thereof who participates or
acts in concert, assists, directs, creates or maintains a nuisance (the
“violator”) may be held responsible for the violation and subject to the fines,
penalties or remedies herein provided.
      (9)   Hearing and appeal. At any time before the expiration of the
abatement period specified, the respondent may request a hearing before the
Planning Director or his or her designee to appeal the finding that a public
nuisance exists. The request for a hearing must be in writing and must be filed
in the office of the Planning Director. The Planning Director shall fix a time
for the hearing which shall be no greater than seven days beyond the expiration
of the abatement period, and the initial abatement order shall be temporarily
suspended pending such hearing. Failure to request a hearing shall waive the
right to do so after the abatement period has elapsed. At the hearing, the
individual affected by the order shall be given the opportunity to present
evidence to refute the findings which supported the abatement order. No later
than five days following completion of the hearing, the Planning Director or
his or her designee shall render a decision either revoking the initial order,
issuing a final order which differs from the initial order, or affirming the
initial order.
      (10)   Abatement by the town. Upon the failure of the violator to abate
the nuisance following a hearing, or upon the failure of the violator to
request a hearing, the Planning Director may enter the property, take action to
abate the nuisance, and prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement
thereof.
      (11)   Payment of costs. Upon completion of the abatement of any nuisance
under the provisions of this article, the Planning Director shall deliver to
the Finance Officer a statement including the costs of labor, hauling and other
necessary items of expense for such abatement. The Finance Officer shall
thereupon mail a bill to the violator for the costs. When the violator is the
property owner, the amount of the bill may be collected in a civil action or
may become a lien upon said property and if not paid within 30 days shall be
collected in the same manner as provided for the collection of delinquent
taxes. If the violator is not the property owner, the amount shall be recovered
by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
      (12)   Civil remedies.
         (a)   A violator who fails to abate a nuisance in the time specified
shall be subject to a fine of $200. No fine shall be assessed until the person
alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service. For each day the
violation is not corrected, the violator shall be liable for a new and separate
offense and subject to additional civil fines. If the violator fails to pay a
fine within ten days after being cited for violation, the fine may be recovered
by the town in a civil action.
         (b)   In addition to or in lieu of any fine, the town may seek a
mandatory injunction or order of abatement to enforce the provisions of this
article.
      (13)   Criminal remedies. Any person violating the provisions of this
article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of $200
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days as specified by G.S. § 14.4. Each day
of violation of this article shall be a separate and cumulative violation.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.07 VIOLATION OF OPERATING STANDARDS FOR EXISTING TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   Violation of any provisions of this ordinance regarding the creation,
construction, operation or maintenance of a campground (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances)
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates the campground
regulations in this ordinance or fails to comply with any of their requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished in accordance with §
10.06.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.02.08 VIOLATIONS OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the sign regulations in Article 8 shall be
subject to enforcement, penalties and remedies pursuant to §§
10.04 and
10.05.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-193, the town shall have the authority to
summarily remove, abate or remedy a sign or sign structure which the town
determines to be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety. The
expense of the action shall be paid by the sign owner, or if the sign owner
cannot be ascertained, by the property owner, and if not paid, there shall be a
lien placed upon the land or premises where the nuisance arose, and it shall be
collected as unpaid taxes.
   (C)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-193 and 160A-296, any signs or sign
structures prohibited under §
8.05 are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance in that they are
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or public safety and the Planning
Director shall have the authority to remove summarily the sign and/or sign
structure.
   (D)   The Planning Director shall have the authority to issue a remove order
for any sign not repaired or brought into compliance within the time prescribed
by a notice of violation. Remove orders shall be issued to and served upon the
sign/sign structure owner, or if the sign/sign structure owner cannot be
ascertained, the sign or sign structure shall be removed 30 days after the
service of the remove order at the expense of the offender. The remove order
shall describe with particularity the location of the sign or sign structure to
be removed and the reason(s) for issuance of the remove order, including
specific reference to the provisions of this article that have been violated.
   (E)   In the event of failure to comply with the requirements of a remove
order, the Planning Director may cause such sign or sign structure to be
removed. The sign owner and property owner may be jointly and separately liable
for the expense of removal. Notice of the cost of removal shall be sent via
registered mail by the ordinance administrator.
   If said sum is not paid within 30 days thereafter, said sum may be collected
by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt, which shall not subject
the offender to the penalty provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.03 CONTINUED VIOLATIONS.
   To continue any of the above violations is a separate and distinctive
offense. Each day is considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.04 RECURRING VIOLATIONS.
   A violation that has been corrected but recurs within 365 days is a
continued violation subject to any one or combination of the penalties for
violation pursuant to §§
10.03, 10.04 or 10.05 or otherwise available at law.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.05 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
§ 10.05.01 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Any written complaint
stating fully the cause and basis of the complaint shall be filed with the
Planning Director, or designee, who shall properly record such complaint,
investigate in a timely manner, and take appropriate action as provided by this
ordinance.
   (B)   A notice of violation indicating the nature of the violation, the
section of this ordinance that has been violated, the order giving the
necessary action needed to correct the violation, and the time frame for which
the violation is to be corrected shall be sent to the person or property owner
responsible for the violation. The Planning Director may, but is not obligated
to, issue an initial notice of violation allowing the person or property owner
a period of time to correct the violation and providing that a final notice of
violation will not be issued if the violation is corrected within that time.
   (C)   The final notice of violation (and the initial notice of violation may
be the final notice of violation) shall state what the course of action is
intended if the violation is not corrected within the specified time frame as
ordered. The notice of violation shall also advise the violator of their rights
to appeal the notice of violation to the board of adjustment within 30 days of
the date the notice of violation was issued. A civil penalty cannot be
appealed.
   (D)   If the owner, occupant or person responsible for the violation fails
to comply with the notice of violation from which no appeal has been taken, or
from a final decision by the Board of Adjustment following an appeal, the
owner, occupant or person responsible for the violation shall be subject to any
one or combination of the remedies and penalties authorized in §§
10.04 and
10.05.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.05.02 ENFORCEMENT OF FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any violation or alleged violation of flood damage prevention
regulations or floodplain regulations in this ordinance, or any applicable law,
the Floodplain Administrator shall notify the owner or occupant of the building
of the violation. The owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the
violations of law pertaining to their property. If the owner fails within 30
days from the date of notice to commence corrective action, and thereafter to
proceed with due diligence to make all necessary corrections, and fails to
appeal the matter to the Board of Adjustment, the town may take necessary
corrective action pursuant to §
10.05.01 and any other applicable provision of §§
10.04 or
10.05 permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.05.03 ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued until an official building number
has been assigned for a lot.
   (B)   No final inspection shall be released until a building number is
displayed in accordance with this article.
   (C)   After the effective date of this article, any person, firm or agent
thereof who intentionally violates this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, for the conviction of which, the maximum penalty by law may be
imposed. Each day’s continuing violation is a separate and distinct offense.
   (D)   Any person violating the sign regulations shall be notified of the
nature of the violation, via certified mail, posted to the mailing address of
record at the town’s tax office, and shall be subject to those penalties and
remedies described in §
10.06 and any other applicable provisions of §§
10.04 or
10.05 permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06 GENERAL REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   Failure to comply with any provision of this ordinance is declared unlawful.
The remedies and enforcement powers in this §
10.06 may be used to administer and enforce this ordinance, provided, that when
the provisions of §
10.07 apply they shall supersede any inconsistent provisions in §
10.06.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06.01 EQUITABLE REMEDIES THROUGH THE COURTS.
   The town may apply to a court of law for any appropriate equitable remedy to
enforce the provisions of this ordinance. It is not a defense to the town’s
application for equitable relief that there are other remedies provided under
general law or this ordinance.
   (A)   Injunction. Enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance may also
be achieved by injunction. When a violation occurs, the town may, either before
or after the initiation of other authorized action, apply to the appropriate
division of the court for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition or cease the unlawful use of the
property.
   (B)   Order of abatement. In addition to an injunction, the town may apply
for and the court may enter into an order of abatement as part of the judgment
in the case. An order of abatement may direct any of the following actions:
      (1)   Buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed;
      (2)   Fixtures, furniture or other moveable property be moved or removed
entirely;
      (3)   Improvements alterations, modifications or repairs be made; or
      (4)   Any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property
into compliance with this ordinance.
   (C)   Execution of court decisions. If the defendant fails or refuses to
comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed
by the court, the defendant may be cited for contempt. If so authorized to do
so by the court, the town may execute the order of abatement and will have a
lien on the property in the nature of a mechanic’s and material man’s lien for
the cost of executing the order. The defendant may secure cancellation of an
order of abatement by paying all costs of the proceedings and by posting a bond
for compliance with the order. The bond must be given with sureties approved by
the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the
matter was heard and shall be conditioned for the defendant’s full compliance
with the terms of the order of abatement within the time fixed by the judge.
Cancellation of an order of abatement does not suspend or cancel an injunction
issued in conjunction with the order.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06.02 EQUITABLE REMEDIES THROUGH THE TOWN.
   The town may enforce this ordinance through the use of any of the equitable
remedies in this section (§
10.06); provided, that if the provisions of §
10.07 apply, they shall supersede any inconsistent provisions in this §
10.06.
   (A)   Stop work order issuance and revocation of all permits.
      (1)   Whenever a building or structure is being constructed, demolished,
renovated, altered or repaired in substantial violation of any applicable
provision of this ordinance, the Building Official may order the revocation of
the zoning permit for such work and request a stop work order be issued by the
town. The stop work order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing the
work, and shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for
cessation and the action(s) necessary to lawfully resume work.
      (2)   The town may revoke any zoning permit by written notification to
the permit holder when violations of this ordinance have occurred. Permits may
be revoked when false statements or misrepresentations were made in securing
the permit, work is being or has been done in substantial departure from the
approved application or plan, there has been a failure to comply with the
requirements of this ordinance, or a permit has been mistakenly issued in
violation of this development ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06.03 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, any person, firm or corporation convicted of
violating the provisions of this ordinance shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06.04 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   In addition to the other remedies cited in this ordinance for the
enforcement of its provisions, and pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the regulations
and standards in this ordinance may be enforced through the issuance of civil
penalties by the Town Manager. Subsequent citations for the same violation may
be issued by the town if the offender does not pay the citation after it has
been issued unless the offender has sought an appeal to the actions of the code
enforcement officer through the Board of Adjustment. The penalties listed below
are hereby established. If the offender fails to pay the civil penalties within
seven days after having been cited, the town may recover the penalties in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
 
Table 10-1 Civil Penalties
Notice of Violation                     Correct Violation Within 15 Days
First citation                          $50
Second citation for same offense        $100
Third and subsequent citations for same $200
offense
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.06.05 CUMULATIVE PENALTIES.
   More than one of the listed remedies and enforcement powers may be used in
connection with a specific violation, and use of one listed remedy or
enforcement power shall not preclude the town from concurrently or later using
a different remedy or enforcement power.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.07 SPECIAL REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
§ 10.07.01 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property fails to take prompt corrective action in response to a
notification from the Floodplain Administrator, the Floodplain Administrator
shall give the owner written notice, by certified or registered mail to the
owner’s last known address or by personal service, stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   (B)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
regulations, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than
60 days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger
to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken
in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (C)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator within ten days following issuance of
the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Floodplain
Administrator shall be final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear an appeal
within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the
order.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body
following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.07.02 REBUILDING OF DAMAGED DUNES.
   (A)   All dunes in the Ocean Hazard Area that are damaged during
construction, or damage occurring as a result of such construction, or
excavated in violation of this ordinance shall be restored to its original
state using similar materials and stabilizing vegetation. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to guarantee the protection of all
identified dune systems and not allow the natural topography of the lot altered
beyond that which has been authorized in the permit. The rebuilding of a dune
shall be the ultimate responsibility of the property owner. Any dune in the
Ocean Hazard Area that has been damaged or excavated in violation of this
ordinance shall be subject to a fine of $10,000 and restored within seven days
of notice.
   (B)   Failure to repair damage to dunes and vegetation after seven days,
shall constitute a separate violation for each day that such failure continues
after written notification by the Planning Director.
   (C)   Any development proposed within the Ocean Hazard Area shall indicate
on a plat submitted with the application, the dune contour/topography and dune
profile by elevation, the landward toe of the dune by bearing and distance.
   (D)   No disturbance, no development, no structure shall be permitted within
five feet of the landward toe of the dune, “dune buffer,” except beach access
crossovers as permitted.
   (E)   Any additions or improvements to existing structures must comply with
the standards for new construction and be relocated outside of the “dune
buffer.”
   (F)   If any provision of this article is in conflict with a rule or
regulation adopted by the State Coastal Resources Commission dealing with
oceanfront erosion control, then the most stringent rule or regulation shall
control and apply.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
§ 10.07.03 REPLACEMENT OF DAMAGED TREES.
   Any trees in the required natural area that have been killed, damaged,
destroyed or removed in violation of this ordinance shall be restored or
replaced within 60 days of notice. All replacement trees shall be at least ten
feet in height and have a caliper of not less than three inches.
   (A)   Conformance with authorized permit. Prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for the development site, the site shall be inspected
for the purpose of certifying compliance with the requirements of the
authorized permit. Posting surety in lieu of actual compliance with an
authorized permit may be permitted, providing that compliance with the
authorized permit shall be obtained within 60 days.
   (B)   Daily violation charge. Each day after the 60-day period that the
violator fails to perform such restoration or replacement shall constitute a
new and separate civil violation.
   (C)   Individual tree violations. For purposes of the dunes and vegetation
regulations, the removal of each tree and the failure to replace each tree on a
given parcel of land shall be viewed as individual violations of these
regulations.
   (D)   Civil penalty for violation. Each violation of §
3.03 shall incur a civil penalty in the amount of $1,000.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.07.04 VIOLATION OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   If, within ten days of the date of the mailing of the notice described in §
10.05.01 the party fails to bring the sign into compliance with this ordinance,
fails to remove the sign or fails to provide to the town any evidence of the
party’s good faith effort to do either, then the party shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day,
per violation, retroactive to the date of mailing of the violation notice and
any or all of the following.
   (A)   Abatement. In case any sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or continued in violation of this ordinance, the
town, or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute an action for injunction or mandamus, or other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent or abate such violations.
   (B)   Impoundment of signs.
      (1)   The town shall have the authority to remove and impound any sign,
without further notice, where such sign is not in compliance with this
ordinance, and:
         (a)   After ten days of the mailing of notification of a violation,
the owner has failed to remove the sign or bring it into compliance with this
ordinance, or has failed to provide the town with the evidence of a good faith
effort to make such removal or compliance: or
         (b)   The sign is placed within any street, state road or highway
right-of-way or other right-of-way, or attached to trees, fence posts,
telephone and/or utility poles, and other than natural features.
      (2)   The town shall impound such signs for a period of ten days. The
owner of a sign impounded may recover it upon payment of $50 for each sign,
prior to the expiration of the ten-day impoundment period. In the event a sign
is not claimed within ten days of its impoundment, the town shall have the
authority to dispose of such sign.
      (3)   In the event a violating sign requires special resources for its
removal and impoundment, the town, or independent contractor secured by the
town, shall remove the sign and the resulting charges shall be assessed to the
owner and/or lessee.
   (C)   Revocation of privilege license. Pursuant to the town code Chapter 4,
the Board of Aldermen may revoke any privilege license upon the finding by the
Board that the licensee has willfully or persistently violated any section of
this ordinance or other ordinance of the town or laws of the state. Any such
licensee shall be entitled to a hearing upon reasonable notice before his or
her license shall be revoked, and the findings of the Board of Aldermen as a
result of such hearing shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 10.07.05 INSTALL AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL
MEASURES.
   (A)   All unconsolidated material resulting from associated grading and
landscaping shall be retained on site by effective sedimentation and erosion
control measures.
   (B)   Disturbed areas shall be vegetated and stabilized (planted and
mulched) within 14 days of construction completion.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to ensure the
installation and maintenance of effective sedimentation and erosion control
measures and to stabilize disturbed areas within 14 days of construction
completion.
   (D)   Failure to install and maintain effective sedimentation and erosion
control measures during construction or stabilize disturbed areas after
construction are in violation of this ordinance shall be subject to a fine in
accordance with the Planning and Zoning Fee Schedule for Code Enforcement Civil
Citations, as adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2023)
§ 10.07.06 WETLAND PROTECTION.
   (A)   Any wetlands damaged during construction, or damage occurring as a
result of such construction, or excavated in violation of this ordinance shall
be restored to its original state using similar materials and stabilizing
vegetation.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to guarantee the
protection of all identified wetlands and not allow the natural wetland
hydrology of the lot to be altered beyond that which has been authorized in the
permit.
   (C)   Wetland grass planting or wetland reforestation shall be the ultimate
responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   Any wetlands, as defined in Article 11, in the required natural area
that has been damaged or excavated in violation of this ordinance shall be
subject to a fine in accordance with the Planning and Zoning Fee Schedule for
Code Enforcement Civil Citations for this section, as adopted by the Board of
Aldermen and restored within seven days of notice.
   (E)   Failure to repair damage to wetlands and vegetation after seven days
shall constitute a separate violation for each day that such failure continues
after written notification pursuant to § 2.17.01.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2023)
§ 10.08 BUILDING CODE ENFORCEMENT.
§ 10.08.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Article 10, the following terms shall have their ordinary
meaning and shall also be read to include the following:
   (A)   BUILDING OR BUILDINGS. Includes other structures.
   (B)   GOVERNING BOARD OR BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Includes the Tribal Council
of a federally recognized Indian tribe.
   (C)   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Includes a federally recognized Indian tribe, and,
as to such tribe, includes lands held in trust for the tribe.
   (D)   PUBLIC OFFICER. Includes the officer or officers who are authorized by
regulations adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by the
regulations and by this Article 10.
(G.S. § 160D-1101) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.02 BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A local government may create an inspection department and may appoint
inspectors who may be given appropriate titles, such as building inspector,
electrical inspector, plumbing inspector, housing inspector, zoning inspector,
heating and air-conditioning inspector, fire prevention inspector, or deputy or
assistant inspector, or such other titles as may be generally descriptive of
the duties assigned. Every local government shall perform the duties and
responsibilities set forth in G.S. § 160D-1105 either by (i) creating its own
inspection department, (ii) creating a joint inspection department in
cooperation with one or more other units of local government, pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-1105 or G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 20, Part 1, (iii) contracting with another
unit of local government for the provision of inspection services pursuant to
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 20, Part 1, or (iv) arranging for the county in which a
city is located to perform inspection services within the city's jurisdiction
as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1105 and G.S. § 160D-202.
   (B)   In the event that any local government fails to provide inspection
services or ceases to provide such services, the Commissioner of Insurance
shall arrange for the provision of such services, either through personnel
employed by the department or through an arrangement with other units of
government. In either event, the Commissioner shall have and may exercise
within the local government’s planning and development regulation jurisdiction
all powers made available to the Board of Aldermen with respect to building
inspection under this Article 10 and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 20, Part 1.
   (C)   Whenever the Commissioner has intervened in this manner, the local
government may assume provision of inspection services only after giving the
Commissioner two years’ written notice of its intention to do so; provided,
however, that the Commissioner may waive this requirement or permit assumption
at an earlier date upon finding that such earlier assumption will not unduly
interfere with arrangements made for the provision of those services.
(G.S. § 160D-1102) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF INSPECTORS.
   No local government shall employ an inspector to enforce the State Building
Code who does not have one of the following types of certificates issued by the
North Carolina Code Officials Qualification Board attesting to the inspector’s
qualifications to hold such position: (i) a probationary certificate, (ii) a
standard certificate, or (iii) a limited certificate which shall be valid only
as an authorization to continue in the position held on the date specified in
G.S. § 143-151.13(c) and which shall become invalid if the inspector does not
successfully complete in-service training specified by the Qualification Board
within the period specified in G.S. § 143-151.13(c). An inspector holding one
of the above certificates can be promoted to a position requiring a higher-
level certificate only upon issuance by the Board of a standard certificate or
probationary certificate appropriate for such new position.
(G.S. § 160D-1103) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities of an inspection department and of the
inspectors in it are to enforce within their planning and development
regulation jurisdiction state and local laws relating to the following:
      (1)   The construction of buildings and other structures.
      (2)   The installation of such facilities as plumbing systems, electrical
systems, heating systems, refrigeration systems, and air-conditioning systems.
      (3)   The maintenance of buildings and other structures in a safe,
sanitary, and healthful condition.
      (4)   Other matters that may be specified by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities set forth in paragraph (A) of this
subsection include the receipt of applications for permits and the issuance or
denial of permits, the making of any necessary inspections in a timely manner,
the issuance or denial of certificates of compliance, the issuance of orders to
correct violations, the bringing of judicial actions against actual or
threatened violations, the keeping of adequate records, and any other actions
that may be required in order adequately to enforce those laws. The Board of
Aldermen shall have the authority to enact reasonable and appropriate
provisions governing the enforcement of those laws.
   (C)   In performing the specific inspections required by the North Carolina
Building Code, the inspector shall conduct all inspections requested by the
permit holder for each scheduled inspection visit. For each requested
inspection, the inspector shall inform the permit holder of instances in which
the work inspected fails to meet the requirements of the North Carolina
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings or the North Carolina
Building Code.
   (D)   Except as provided in G.S. §§ 160D-1117 and 160D-1207, the town may
not adopt or enforce a local ordinance or resolution or any other policy that
requires regular, routine inspections of buildings or structures constructed in
compliance with the North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings in addition to the specific inspections required by the North
Carolina Building Code without first obtaining approval from the North Carolina
Building Code Council. The North Carolina Building Code Council shall review
all applications for additional inspections requested by the town and shall, in
a reasonable manner, approve or disapprove the additional inspections. This
subsection does not limit the authority of the local government to require
inspections upon unforeseen or unique circumstances that require immediate
action. In performing the specific inspections required by the North Carolina
Residential Building Code, the inspector shall conduct all inspections
requested by the permit holder for each scheduled inspection visit. For each
requested inspection, the inspector shall inform the permit holder of instances
in which the work inspected is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the
requirements of the North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings or the North Carolina Building Code.
   (E)   Each inspection department shall implement a process for an informal
internal review of inspection decisions made by the department’s inspectors.
This process shall include, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Initial review by the supervisor of the inspector.
      (2)   The provision in or with each permit issued by the department of
(i) the name, phone number, and e-mail address of the supervisor of each
inspector and (ii) a notice of availability of the informal internal review
process.
      (3)   Procedures the department must follow when a permit holder or
applicant requests an internal review of an inspector’s decision.
      (4)   Nothing in this subsection limits or abrogates any rights available
under G.S. Ch. 150B to a permit holder or applicant.
   (F)   If a specific building framing inspection as required by the North
Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings results in 15 or
more separate violations of that Code, the inspector shall forward a copy of
the inspection report to the Department of Insurance.
(G.S. § 160D-1104) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.05 OTHER ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTIONS.
   A local government may contract with an individual who is not the town
employee but who holds one of the applicable certificates as provided in G.S. §
160D-1103 or with the employer of an individual who holds one of the applicable
certificates as provided in G.S. § 160D-1103.
(G.S. § 160D-1105) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.06 ALTERNATE INSPECTION METHOD FOR COMPONENT OR ELEMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the requirements of this Article 10, the town shall
accept and approve, without further responsibility to inspect, a design or
other proposal for a component or element in the construction of buildings from
an architect licensed under G.S. Ch. 83A or professional engineer licensed
under G.S. Ch. 89C provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The submission design or other proposal is completed under valid
seal of the licensed architect or licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   Field inspection of the installation or completion of a component
or element of the building is performed by a licensed architect or licensed
professional engineer or a person under the direct supervisory control of the
licensed architect or licensed professional engineer.
      (3)   The licensed architect or licensed professional engineer under
subparagraph (A)(2) of this subsection provides the local government with a
signed written document certifying that the component or element of the
building inspected under subparagraph (A)(2) of this subsection is in
compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code or the North Carolina
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings. The certification required
under this subparagraph shall be provided by electronic or physical delivery,
and its receipt shall be promptly acknowledged by the local government through
reciprocal means. The certification shall be made on a form created by the
North Carolina Building Code Council which shall include at least the
following:
         (a)   Permit number.
         (b)   Date of inspection.
         (c)   Type of inspection.
         (d)   Contractor’s name and license number.
         (e)   Street address of the job location.
         (f)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person responsible
for the inspection.
      (4)   In accepting certifications of inspections under paragraph (A) of
this subsection, the town shall not require information other than that
specified in this subsection.
   (B)   Upon the acceptance and approval receipt of a signed written document
by the local government as required under paragraph (A) of this subsection,
notwithstanding the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the local
government, its inspection department, and the inspectors are discharged and
released from any liabilities, duties, and responsibilities imposed by this
Article 10 with respect to or in common law from any claim arising out of or
attributed to the component or element in the construction of the building for
which the signed written document was submitted.
   (C)   With the exception of the requirements contained in paragraph (A) of
this subsection, no further certification by a licensed architect or licensed
professional engineer is required for any component or element designed and
sealed by a licensed architect or licensed professional engineer for the
manufacturer of the component or element under the North Carolina State
Building Code or the North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings.
   (D)   As used in this section, the following definitions apply:
      (1)   COMPONENT. Any assembly, subassembly, or combination of elements
designed to be combined with other components to form part of a building or
structure. Examples of a component include an excavated footing trench
containing no concrete, a foundation, and a prepared underslab with slab-
related materials without concrete. The term does not include a system.
      (2)   ELEMENT. A combination of products designed to be combined with
other elements to form all or part of a building component. The term does not
include a system.
(G.S. § 160D-1106) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.07 MUTUAL AID CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Any two or more cities or counties may enter into contracts with each
other to provide mutual aid and assistance in the administration and
enforcement of state and local laws pertaining to the North Carolina State
Building Code. Mutual aid contracts may include provisions addressing the scope
of aid provided, for reimbursement or indemnification of the aiding party for
loss or damage incurred by giving aid, for delegating authority to a designated
official or employee to request aid or to send aid upon request, and any other
provisions not inconsistent with law.
   (B)   Unless the mutual aid contract says otherwise, while working with the
requesting city or county under the authority of this section, a Code
enforcement official shall have the same jurisdiction, powers, rights,
privileges, and immunities, including those relating to the defense of civil
actions and payment of judgments, as the Code enforcement officials of the
requesting agency.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to deprive any party to a
mutual aid contract under this section of its discretion to send or decline to
provide aid to another party to the contract under any circumstances, whether
or not obligated by the contract to do so. In no case shall a party to a mutual
aid contract or any of its officials or employees be held to answer in any
civil or criminal action for declining to send aid whether or not obligated by
contract to do so.
(G.S. § 160D-1107) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.08 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Staff members, agents, or contractors responsible for building
inspections shall comply with G.S. § 160D(c). No member of an inspection
department shall be financially interested or employed by a business that is
financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for
the construction, alteration, or maintenance of any building within the local
government’s planning and development regulation jurisdiction or any part or
system thereof, or in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he
or she is the owner of the building. No member of an inspection department or
other individual or an employee of a company contracting with the town to
conduct building inspections shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with
his or her duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined
by the local government. The local government must find a conflict of interest
if any of the following is the case:
      (1)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the local government has worked for the owner,
developer, contractor, or project manager of the project to be inspected within
the last two years.
      (2)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the local government is closely related to the
owner, developer, contractor, or project manager of the project to be
inspected.
      (3)   If the individual, company, or employee of a company contracting to
perform building inspections for the local government has a financial or
business interest in the project to be inspected.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a firefighter whose
primary duties are fire suppression and rescue but who engages in some fire
inspection activities as a secondary responsibility of the firefighter’s
employment as a firefighter, except no firefighter may inspect any work
actually done, or materials or appliances supplied, by the firefighter or the
firefighter’s business within the preceding six years.
(G.S. § 160D-1108) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.09 FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   (A)   If any member of an inspection department shall willfully fail to
perform the duties required by law or willfully shall improperly issue a
building permit, or shall give a certificate of compliance without first making
the inspections required by law, or willfully shall improperly give a
certificate of compliance, the member shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (B)   A member of the inspection department shall not be in violation of
this subsection when the local government, its inspection department, or one of
the inspectors accepted a signed written document of compliance with the North
Carolina State Building Code or the North Carolina Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings from a licensed architect or licensed engineer in
accordance with G.S. § 160D-1104(d).
(G.S. § 160D-1109) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.10 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Except as provided in paragraph (C) of this subsection, no person
shall commence or proceed with any of the following without first securing all
permits required by the State Building Code and any other state or local laws
applicable to any of the following activities:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, movement to
another site, removal, or demolition of any building or structure.
      (2)   The installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing
system except that in any one or two-family dwelling unit a permit is not
required for the connection of a water heater that is being replaced if (i) the
work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-21 who personally
examines the work at completion and ensures that a leak test has been performed
on the gas piping, and (ii) the energy use rate or thermal input is not greater
than that of the water heater that is being replaced, there is no change in
fuel, energy source, location, capacity, or routing or sizing of venting and
piping, and the replacement is installed in accordance with the current edition
of the State Building Code.
      (3)   The installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any
heating or cooling equipment system.
      (4)   The installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any
electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, except that in any one-
or two-family dwelling unit a permit is not required for repair or replacement
of electrical lighting fixtures or devices, such as receptacles and lighting
switches, or for the connection of an existing branch circuit to an electric
water heater that is being replaced if all of the following requirements are
met:
         (a)   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water
heater is placed in the same location and is of the same or less capacity and
electrical rating as the original.
         (b)   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same or
less amperage.
         (c)   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-43.
         (d)   The repair or replacement installation meets the current edition
of the State Building Code, including the State Electrical Code.
   (B)   However, a building permit is not required for the installation,
maintenance, or replacement of any load control device or equipment by an
electric power supplier, as defined in G.S. § 62-133.8, or an electrical
contractor contracted by the electric power supplier, so long as the work is
subject to supervision by an electrical contractor licensed under G.S. Ch. 87,
Art. 4. The electric power supplier shall provide such installation,
maintenance, or replacement in accordance with (i) an activity or program
ordered, authorized, or approved by the North Carolina Utilities Commission
pursuant to G.S. §§ 62-133.8 or 62-133.9 or (ii) a similar program undertaken
by a municipal electric service provider, whether the installation,
modification, or replacement is made before or after the point of delivery of
electric service to the customer. The exemption under this subsection applies
to all existing installations.
   (C)   A building permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision
that the work done shall comply with the North Carolina State Building Code and
all other applicable state and local laws. Nothing in this subsection requires
the town to review and approve residential building plans submitted to the
local government pursuant to the North Carolina Residential Code, provided that
the local government may review and approve the residential building plans as
it deems necessary. If a local government chooses to review residential
building plans for any structures subject to regulation under the North
Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, all initial
reviews for the building permit must be performed within 15 business days of
submission of the plans. A local government shall not require residential
building plans for one and two family dwellings to be sealed by a licensed
engineer or licensed architect unless required by the North Carolina State
Building Code. No building permits shall be issued unless the plans and
specifications are identified by the name and address of the author thereof,
and, if the General Statutes of North Carolina require that plans for certain
types of work be prepared only by a licensed architect or licensed engineer, no
building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications bear the
North Carolina seal of a licensed architect or of a licensed engineer. When any
provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of any ordinance or
development or zoning regulation requires that work be done by a licensed
specialty contractor of any kind, no building permit for the work shall be
issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly licensed contractor.
   (D)   No permit issued under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9 or 9C is required for any
construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration performed in
accordance with the current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code
costing $15,000 or less in any single-family residence or farm building unless
the work involves any of the following:
      (1)   The addition, repair, or replacement of load-bearing structures.
However, no permit is required for replacement of windows, doors, exterior
siding, or the pickets, railings, stair treads, and decking of porches and
exterior decks.
      (2)   The addition or change in the design of plumbing. However, no
permit is required for replacements otherwise meeting the requirements of this
subsection that do not change size or capacity.
      (3)   The addition, replacement, or change in the design of heating, air-
conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, other
than like-kind replacement of electrical devices and lighting fixtures.
      (4)   The use of materials not permitted by the North Carolina
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
      (5)   The addition (excluding replacement) of roofing.
   (E)   A local government shall not require more than one building permit for
the complete installation or replacement of any natural gas, propane gas, or
electrical appliance on an existing structure when the installation or
replacement is performed by a person licensed under G.S. §§ 87-21 or 87-43. The
cost of the building permit for such work shall not exceed the cost of any one
individual trade permit issued by that local government, nor shall the local
government increase the costs of any fees to offset the loss of revenue caused
by this provision.
   (F)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to paragraph (A) of this
subsection for any land- disturbing activity, as defined in G.S. § 113A-52(6),
or for any activity covered by G.S. § 113A-57, unless an erosion and
sedimentation control plan for the site of the activity or a tract of land
including the site of the activity has been approved under the Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act.
   (G)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to paragraph (A) of this
subsection for any land- disturbing activity that is subject to, but does not
comply with, the requirements of G.S. § 113A-71.
   (H)   No building permit shall be issued pursuant to subparagraph (A)(1) of
this subsection where the cost of the work is $30,000 or more, other than for
improvements to an existing single-family residential dwelling unit as defined
in G.S. § 87-15.5(7) that the owner occupies as a residence, or for the
addition of an accessory building or accessory structure as defined in the
North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code, the use of which is
incidental to that residential dwelling unit, unless the name, physical and
mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail
address of the lien agent designated by the owner pursuant to G.S. § 44A-11.1
(a) is conspicuously set forth in the permit or in an attachment thereto. The
building permit may contain the lien agent's electronic mail address. The lien
agent information for each permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be
maintained by the inspection department in the same manner and in the same
location in which it maintains its record of building permits issued. Where the
improvements to a real property leasehold are limited to the purchase,
transportation, and setup of a manufactured home, as defined in G.S. § 143-
143.9(6), the purchase price of the manufactured home shall be excluded in
determining whether the cost of the work is $30,000 or more.
   (I)   No local government may withhold a building permit or certificate of
occupancy that otherwise would be eligible to be issued under this section to
compel, with respect to another property or parcel, completion of work for a
separate permit or compliance with land-use regulations under this Article 10
unless otherwise authorized by law or unless the local government reasonably
determines the existence of a public safety issue directly related to the
issuance of a building permit or certificate of occupancy.
   (J)   Violation of this subsection constitutes a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160D-1110) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.11 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   A building permit issued pursuant to this Article 10 shall expire by
limitation six months, or any lesser time fixed by ordinance of the Board of
Aldermen, after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has
not been commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a
period of 12 months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work
authorized by any building permit that has expired shall thereafter be
performed until a new permit has been secured.
(G.S. § 160D-1111) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.12 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a building permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the
terms of the application, plans and specifications, or the permit, except where
changes or deviations are clearly permissible under the State Building Code,
shall be made until specific written approval of proposed changes or deviations
has been obtained from the inspection department.
(G.S. § 160D-1112) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.13 INSPECTIONS OF WORK IN PROGRESS.
   Subject to the limitation imposed by G.S. § 160D-1104(d), as the work
pursuant to a building permit progresses, local inspectors shall make as many
inspections thereof as may be necessary to satisfy them that the work is being
done according to the provisions of any applicable state and local laws and of
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, members of the inspection
department have a right to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction of the
department at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials. If a building
permit has been obtained by an owner exempt from licensure under G.S. § 87-1(b)
(2), no inspection shall be conducted without the owner being present, unless
the plans for the building were drawn and sealed by an architect licensed
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 83A.
(G.S. § 160D-1113) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.14 APPEALS OF STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   The owner or builder may appeal from a stop order involving alleged
violation of the State Building Code or any approved local modification thereof
to the North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance or his or her designee within a
period of five days after the order is issued. Notice of appeal shall be given
in writing to the Commissioner of Insurance or his or her designee, with a copy
to the local inspector. The Commissioner of Insurance or his or her designee
shall promptly conduct an investigation, and the appellant and the inspector
shall be permitted to submit relevant evidence. The Commissioner of Insurance
or his or her designee shall as expeditiously as possible provide a written
statement of the decision setting forth the facts found, the decision reached,
and the reasons for the decision. Pending the ruling by the Commissioner of
Insurance or his or her designee on an appeal, no further work shall take place
in violation of a stop order. In the event of dissatisfaction with the
decision, the person affected shall have the following options:
      (1)   Appealing to the Building Code Council.
      (2)   Appealing to the superior court as provided in G.S. § 143-141.
   (B)   The owner or builder may appeal from a stop order involving alleged
violation of a local development regulation as provided in G.S. § 160D-405.
(G.S. § 160D-1114) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.15 REVOCATION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any building
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the
revocation. Building permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure
from the approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure
to comply with the requirements of any applicable state or local laws; or for
false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any
building permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local
law may also be revoked.
(G.S. § 160D-1115) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.16 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE; TEMPORARY CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   At the conclusion of all work done under a building permit, the
appropriate inspector shall make a final inspection, and, if the inspector
finds that the completed work complies with all applicable state and local laws
and with the terms of the permit, the inspector shall issue a certificate of
compliance. Except as provided by paragraph (B) of this subsection, no new
building or part thereof may be occupied, no addition or enlargement of an
existing building may be occupied, and no existing building that has been
altered or moved may be occupied, until the inspection department has issued a
certificate of compliance.
   (B)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued permitting
occupancy for a stated period of time of either the entire building or property
or of specified portions of the building if the inspector finds that the
building may safely be occupied prior to its final completion. A permit holder
may request and be issued a temporary certificate of occupancy if the
conditions and requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code are met.
   (C)   Any person who owns, leases, or controls a building and occupies or
allows the occupancy of the building or a part of the building before a
certificate of compliance or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued
pursuant to paragraph (A) or (B) of this subsection is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160D-1116) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.17 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   The inspection department may make periodic inspections, subject to the
Board of Aldermen’s directions, for unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous
and unlawful conditions in buildings or structures within its planning and
development regulation jurisdiction. In exercising this power, members of the
department shall have a right to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction
of the department at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or
other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials. Inspections
of dwellings shall follow the provisions of G.S. § 160D-1207. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit periodic inspections in accordance with
State Fire Prevention Code or as otherwise required by state law.
(G.S. § 160D-1117) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.18 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When a local inspector finds any defects in a building, or finds that the
building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable state and
local laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be the inspector’s duty to notify
the owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions, or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions, or violations of law in the property.
(G.S. § 160D-1118) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.19 UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED.
   (A)   Designation of unsafe buildings. Every building that shall appear to
the inspector to be especially dangerous to life because of its liability to
fire or because of bad condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective
construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of
egress, or other causes shall be held to be unsafe, and the inspector shall
affix a notice of the dangerous character of the structure to a conspicuous
place on the exterior wall of the building.
   (B)   Nonresidential building or structure. In addition to the authority
granted in paragraph (A) of this subsection, an inspector may declare a
nonresidential building or structure within a community development target area
to be unsafe if it meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   It appears to the inspector, having followed standardized process
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1203(6) to be vacant or abandoned.
      (2)   It appears to the inspector to be in such dilapidated condition as
to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or fire or safety hazard,
to be a danger to children, or to tend to attract persons intent on criminal
activities or other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Notice posted on structure. If an inspector declares a nonresidential
building or structure to be unsafe under paragraph (B) of this subsection, the
inspector must affix a notice of the unsafe character of the structure to a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building. For the purposes of
this section, the term “community development target area” means an area that
has characteristics of an urban progress zone under G.S. § 143B-437.09, a
“nonresidential redevelopment area” under G.S. § 160A-503(10), or an area with
similar characteristics designated by the Board of Aldermen as being in special
need of revitalization for the benefit and welfare of its citizens.
   (D)   Applicability to residential structures. A local government may expand
paragraphs (B) and (C) of this subsection to apply to residential buildings by
adopting an ordinance. Before adopting such an ordinance, the town shall hold a
legislative hearing with published notice as provided by G.S. § 160D-601.
(G.S. § 160D-1119) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.20 REMOVING NOTICE FROM CONDEMNED BUILDING.
   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any building
or structure by a local inspector of any local government and that states the
dangerous character of the building or structure, that person shall be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160D-1120) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.21 ACTION IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as unsafe
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1119 fails to take prompt corrective action, the local
inspector shall give written notice, by certified mail to the owner’s last
known address or by personal service, of all of the following:
   (A)   That the building or structure is in a condition that appears to meet
one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Constitutes a fire or safety hazard.
      (2)   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property.
      (3)   Is likely to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or
danger to children.
      (4)   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities or
other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   That an administrative hearing will be held before the inspector at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner will be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter.
   (C)   That following the hearing, the inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate.
   (D)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if
a copy is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at
least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published in
a newspaper having general circulation in the local government’s area of
jurisdiction at least once not later than one week prior to the hearing.
(G.S. § 160D-1121) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.22 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in G.S. § 160D-
1119, the inspector shall find that the building or structure is in a condition
that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life,
health, or other property, the inspector shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within such period,
not less than 60 days, as the inspector may prescribe, provided that where the
inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, the
inspector may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as
may be feasible.
(G.S. § 160D-1122) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.23 APPEAL; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under G.S. § 160D-1122 may appeal from
the order to the Board of Aldermen by giving notice of appeal in writing to the
inspector and to the local government clerk within ten days following issuance
of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the inspector is final.
The Board of Aldermen shall hear an appeal in accordance with G.S. § 160D-406
and render a decision within a reasonable time. The Board of Aldermen may
affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
(G.S. § 160D-1123) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.24 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1122 from which no appeal has been taken or fails to
comply with an order of the Board of Aldermen following an appeal, the owner is
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160D-1124) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Action authorized. Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor
under the provisions of this Article 10, the local government, either in
addition to or in lieu of other remedies, may initiate any appropriate action
or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation or to
prevent the occupancy of the building or structure involved.
   (B)   Removal of building. In the case of a building or structure declared
unsafe under G.S. § 160D-1119 or an ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
1119, the town may, in lieu of taking action under paragraph (A) of this
subsection, cause the building or structure to be removed or demolished. The
amounts incurred by the local government in connection with the removal or
demolition are a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected in
the same manner as liens for special assessments provided in G.S. Ch. 160A,
Art. 10. If the building or structure is removed or demolished by the local
government, the local government shall sell the usable materials of the
building and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or
attached to the building. The local government shall credit the proceeds of the
sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining from
the sale shall be deposited with the clerk of superior court of the county
where the property is located and shall be disbursed by the court to the person
found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
   (C)   Additional lien. The amounts incurred by the town in connection with
the removal or demolition are also a lien against any other real property owned
by the owner of the building or structure and located within the local
government’s planning and development regulation jurisdiction, and for cities
without extraterritorial planning and development jurisdiction, within one mile
of the city limits, except for the owner’s primary residence. The provisions of
paragraph (B) of this subsection apply to this additional lien, except that
this additional lien is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a
money judgment.
   (D)   Nonexclusive remedy. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
impair or limit the power of the local government to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise.
(G.S. § 160D-1125) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.26 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The inspection department shall keep complete and accurate records in
convenient form of all applications received, permits issued, inspections and
reinspections made, defects found, certificates of compliance or occupancy
granted, and all other work and activities of the department. These records
shall be kept in the manner and for the periods prescribed by the Department of
Natural and Cultural Resources. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the
Board of Aldermen and to the Commissioner of Insurance as they shall by
ordinance, rule, or regulation require.
(G.S. § 160D-1126) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.27 APPEALS.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision, or
determination by a member of a local inspection department pertaining to the
State Building Code or other state building laws shall be taken to the
Commissioner of Insurance or the Commissioner’s designee or other official
specified in G.S. § 143-139 by filing a written notice with the Commissioner
and with the inspection department within a period of ten days after the order,
decision, or determination. Further appeals may be taken to the State Building
Code Council or to the courts as provided by law.
(G.S. § 160D-1127) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.28 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   County fire limits. A county may by ordinance establish and define
fire limits in any area within the county and not within a city. The limits may
include only business and industrial areas. Within any fire limits, no frame or
wooden building or addition thereto may be erected, altered, repaired, or
moved, either into the fire limits or from one place to another within the
limits, except upon the permit of the inspection department and approval of the
Commissioner of Insurance. The Board of Aldermen may make additional
regulations necessary for the prevention, extinguishment, or mitigation of
fires within the fire limits.
   (B)   Municipal fire limits. The Board of Aldermen of every incorporated
city shall pass one or more ordinances establishing and defining fire limits,
which shall include the principal business portions of the city and which shall
be known as primary fire limits. In addition, the Board of Aldermen may, in its
discretion, establish and define one or more separate areas within the city as
secondary fire limits.
   (C)   Restrictions within municipal primary fire limits. Within the primary
fire limits of any city, as established and defined by ordinance, no frame or
wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall hereafter be erected,
altered, repaired, or moved, either into the limits or from one place to
another within the limits, except upon the permit of the local inspection
department approved by the Board of Aldermen and by the Commissioner of
Insurance or the Commissioner’s designee. The Board of Aldermen may make
additional regulations for the prevention, extinguishment, or mitigation of
fires within the primary fire limits.
   (D)   Restrictions within municipal secondary fire limits. Within any
secondary fire limits of any city or town, as established and defined by
ordinance, no frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall
be erected, altered, repaired, or moved, except in accordance with any rules
and regulations established by ordinance of the areas.
   (E)   Failure to establish municipal primary fire limits. If the Board of
Aldermen of any city shall fail or refuse to establish and define the primary
fire limits of the city as required by law, after having such failure or
refusal called to their attention in writing by the State Commissioner of
Insurance, the Commissioner shall have the power to establish the limits upon
making a determination that they are necessary and in the public interest.
(G.S. § 160D-1128) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.29 REGULATION AUTHORIZED AS TO REPAIR, CLOSING, AND DEMOLITION OF
NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES; ORDER OF PUBLIC OFFICER.
   (A)   Authority. The Board of Aldermen of the local government may adopt and
enforce regulations relating to nonresidential buildings or structures that
fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and safety
established by the Board of Aldermen. The minimum standards shall address only
conditions that are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and
welfare and identify circumstances under which a public necessity exists for
the repair, closing, or demolition of such buildings or structures. The
regulations shall provide for designation or appointment of a public officer to
exercise the powers prescribed by the regulation, in accordance with the
procedures specified in this section. Regulations adopted under this section
shall be applicable within the local government’s entire planning and
development regulation jurisdiction or limited to one or more designated zoning
districts, municipal service districts, or defined geographic areas designated
for improvement and investment in an adopted comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Investigation. Whenever it appears to the public officer that any
nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that
the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public are
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by the Board of Aldermen, the public officer shall undertake a
preliminary investigation. If entry upon the premises for purposes of
investigation is necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued
administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with
permission of the owner, the owner’s agent, a tenant, or other person legally
in possession of the premises.
   (C)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards, the public officer shall
issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the
nonresidential building or structure a complaint. The complaint shall state the
charges and contain a notice that an administrative hearing will be held before
the public officer, or his or her designated agent, at a place within the
county scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving
of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the
right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity are not controlling in hearings
before the public officer.
   (D)   Order. If, after notice and hearing, the public officer determines
that the nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained
so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public
is jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by the Board of Aldermen, the public officer shall state in writing
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner to
take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (E)   Limitations on orders.
      (1)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
nonresidential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the Board of Aldermen or to vacate and
close the nonresidential building or structure for any use.
      (2)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Board of Aldermen determines, after an administrative
hearing as provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure
is of individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of
the district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or
structure be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the
minimum standards established by the Board of Aldermen.
      (3)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
   (F)   Action by Board of Aldermen upon failure to comply with order.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
Board of Aldermen may adopt an ordinance ordering the public officer to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular
property or properties that the public officer found to be jeopardizing the
health or safety of its occupants or members of the general public. The
property or properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall
be recorded in the office of the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption
of an ordinance, the public officer may cause the building or structure to be
repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The public officer
may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or
structure so closed a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit
for any use; the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is
prohibited and unlawful.” Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the
occupancy of a building or structure so posted is guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the nonresidential building or structure, the Board of Aldermen may adopt an
ordinance ordering the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of
this section with respect to the particular property or properties that the
public officer found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants
or members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established by the Board of Aldermen. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
inthe office of the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the public officer may cause the building or structure to be removed
or demolished.
   (G)   Action by Board of Aldermen upon abandonment of intent to repair. If
the Board of Aldermen has adopted an ordinance or the public officer has issued
an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated and
closed and the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a period
of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the Board of Aldermen may make
findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter,
or improve the building or structure and that the continuation of the building
or structure in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health,
safety, and welfare of the local government in that it would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area. Upon such findings, the Board of Aldermen may, after the expiration
of the two-year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the
owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days.
      (2)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (H)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
Board of Aldermen may take action under this subsection. The ordinance shall be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the public officer shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
   (I)   Service of complaints and orders. Complaints or orders issued by a
public officer pursuant to an ordinance adopted under this section shall be
served upon persons either personally or by certified mail so long as the means
used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When service is made by
certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by regular
mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is refused but
the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. If the identities of
any owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained
by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public
officer makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or
order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the local government at least once no
later than the time that personal service would be required under this section.
When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (J)   Liens.
      (1)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer is a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
      (2)   If the real property upon which the cost was incurred is located in
an incorporated city, the amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real
property of the owner located within the city limits except for the owner's
primary residence. The additional lien provided in this paragraph is inferior
to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
      (3)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or
demolished by the public officer, he or she shall offer for sale the
recoverable materials of the building or structure and any personal property,
fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure
and shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the
removal or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
superior court by the public officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by
the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the Board of
Aldermen to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
   (K)   Ejectment. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a
nonresidential building or structure, the public officer may file a civil
action in the name of the local government to remove the occupant. The action
to vacate is in the nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by
filing a complaint naming as parties-defendant any person occupying the
nonresidential building or structure. The clerk of superior court shall issue a
summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain
time, date, and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons
to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as provided
in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if
on its return it appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the
public officer produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Board
of Aldermen pursuant to paragraph (F) of this subsection to vacate the occupied
nonresidential building or structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment
ordering that the premises be vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment
ordering that the nonresidential building or structure be vacated shall be
enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under
G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered under this subsection by the
magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the
judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an
occupant of a nonresidential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner
may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
subsection unless the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding, that the Board of Aldermen has
ordered the public officer to proceed to exercise his or her duties under
paragraph (F) of this subsection to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
nonresidential building or structure.
   (L)   Civil penalty. The Board of Aldermen may impose civil penalties
against any person or entity that fails to comply with an order entered
pursuant to this section. However, the imposition of civil penalties does not
limit the use of any other lawful remedies available to the Board of Aldermen
for the enforcement of any ordinances adopted pursuant to this section.
   (M)   Supplemental powers. The powers conferred by this section are
supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law. An ordinance adopted by
the Board of Aldermen may authorize the public officer to exercise any powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this section, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
      (1)   To investigate nonresidential buildings and structures in the local
government’s planning and development regulation jurisdiction to determine
whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the minimum
standards so that the safety or health of the occupants or members of the
general public are not jeopardized.
      (2)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon premises pursuant to paragraph (B) of this subsection
for the purpose of making examinations in a manner that will do the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances adopted by the Board of
Aldermen.
      (5)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the
ordinance to other officers and agents.
   (N)   Appeals. The Board of Aldermen may provide that appeals may be taken
from any decision or order of the public officer to the local government’s
housing appeals board or board of adjustment. Any person aggrieved by a
decision or order of the public officer has the remedies provided in G.S. §
160D-1208.
   (O)   Funding. The Board of Aldermen is authorized to make appropriations
from its revenues necessary to carry out the purposes of this section and may
accept and apply grants or donations to assist in carrying out the provisions
of the ordinances adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (P)   No effect on just compensation for taking by eminent domain. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as preventing the owner or owners of any
property from receiving just compensation for the taking of property by the
power of eminent domain under the laws of this state nor as permitting any
property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police
power of the state.
   (Q)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following definitions apply:
      (1)   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and
corporations who have interests of record in a nonresidential building or
structure and any who are in possession thereof.
      (2)   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for
the storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes,
which has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
      (3)   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously
used for the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been
used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to
another use.
(G.S. § 160D-1129) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
§ 10.08.30 VACANT BUILDING RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Petition to appoint a receiver. The Board of Aldermen of a city or its
delegated commission may petition the superior court for the appointment of a
receiver to rehabilitate, demolish, or sell a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling upon the occurrence of any of the following, each of which is deemed a
nuisance per se:
      (1)   The owner fails to comply with an order issued pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1122, related to building or structural conditions that constitute a fire
or safety hazard or render the building or structure dangerous to life, health,
or other property, from which no appeal has been taken.
      (2)   The owner fails to comply with an order of the city following an
appeal of an inspector's order issued pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1122.
      (3)   The Board of Aldermen of the city adopts any ordinance pursuant to
subdivision (f)(1) of G.S. § 160D-1129, related to nonresidential buildings or
structures that fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety, and orders a public officer to continue enforcement actions prescribed
by the ordinance with respect to the named nonresidential building or
structure. The public officer may submit a petition on behalf of the Board of
Aldermen to the superior court for the appointment of a receiver, and if
granted by the superior court, the petition shall be considered an appropriate
means of complying with the ordinance. In the event the superior court does not
grant the petition, the public officer and the Board of Aldermen may take
action pursuant to the ordinance in any manner authorized in G.S. § 160D-1129.
      (4)   The owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve, remove, or demolish a dwelling issued under G.S. § 160D-1203, related
to dwellings that are unfit for human habitation.
      (5)   Any owner or partial owner of a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling, with or without the consent of other owners of the property, submits
a request to the Board of Aldermen in the form of a sworn affidavit requesting
the Board of Aldermen to petition the superior court for appointment of a
receiver for the property pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Petition for appointment of receiver. The petition for the appointment
of a receiver shall include all of the following: (i) a copy of the original
violation notice or order issued by the city or, in the case of an owner
request to the Board of Aldermen for a petition for appointment of a receiver,
a verified pleading that avers that at least one owner consents to the
petition; (ii) a verified pleading that avers that the required rehabilitation
or demolition has not been completed; and (iii) the names of the respondents,
which shall include the owner of the property, as recorded with the register of
deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded interest in the property, and all other
parties in interest, as defined in G.S. § 160D-1202(2). If the petition fails
to name a respondent as required by this subsection, the proceeding may
continue, but the receiver's lien for expenses incurred in rehabilitating,
demolishing, or selling the vacant building, structure, or dwelling, as
authorized by paragraph (F) of this subsection, does not have priority over the
lien of that respondent.
   (C)   Notice of proceeding. Within ten days after filing the petition, the
city shall give notice of the pendency and nature of the proceeding by regular
and certified mail to the last known address of all owners of the property, as
recorded with the register of deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded interest in
the property, and all other parties in interest, as defined in G.S. § 160D-1202
(2). Within 30 days of the date on which the notice was mailed, an owner of the
property, as recorded with the register of deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded
interest in the property, and all other parties in interest, as defined in G.S.
§ 160D-1202(2), may apply to intervene in the proceeding and to be appointed as
receiver. If the city fails to give notice to any owner of the property, as
recorded with the register of deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded interest in
the property, and all other parties in interest, as defined in G.S. § 160D-1202
(2), as required by this subsection, the proceeding may continue, but the
receiver’s lien for expenses incurred in rehabilitating, demolishing, or
selling the vacant building, structure, or dwelling, as authorized by paragraph
(F) of this subsection, does not have priority over the lien of that owner, as
recorded with the register of deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded interest in
the property, and all other parties in interest, as defined in G.S. § 160D-1202
(2).
   (D)   Appointment of receiver. The court shall appoint a qualified receiver
if the provisions of paragraphs (B) and (C) of this subsection have been
satisfied. If the court does not appoint a person to rehabilitate or demolish
the property pursuant to paragraph (E) of this subsection, or if the court
dismisses such an appointee, the court shall appoint a qualified receiver for
the purpose of rehabilitating and managing the property, demolishing the
property, or selling the property to a buyer. To be considered qualified, a
receiver must demonstrate to the court (i) the financial ability to complete
the purchase or rehabilitation of the property, (ii) the knowledge of, or
experience in, the rehabilitation of vacant real property, (iii) the ability to
obtain any necessary insurance, and (iv) the absence of any building code
violations issued by the city on other real property owned by the person or any
member, principal, officer, major stockholder, parent, subsidiary, predecessor,
or others affiliated with the person or the person’s business. No member of the
petitioning city’s Board of Aldermen or a public officer of the petitioning
city is qualified to be appointed as a receiver in that action. If, at any
time, the court determines that the receiver is no longer qualified, the court
may appoint another qualified receiver.
   (E)   Rehabilitation not by receiver. The court may, instead of appointing a
qualified receiver to rehabilitate or sell a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling, appoint an owner or other party in interest in the property, as
defined in G.S. § 160D-1202, to rehabilitate or demolish the property if that
person (i) demonstrates the ability to complete the rehabilitation or
demolition within a reasonable time, (ii) agrees to comply with a specified
schedule for rehabilitation or demolition, and (iii) posts a bond in an amount
determined by the court as security for the performance of the required work in
compliance with the specified schedule. After the appointment, the court shall
require the person to report to the court on the progress of the rehabilitation
or demolition, according to a schedule determined by the court. If, at any
time, it appears to the city or its delegated commission that the owner,
mortgagee, or other person appointed under this subsection is not proceeding
with due diligence or in compliance with the court-ordered schedule, the city
or its delegated commission may apply to the court for immediate revocation of
that person's appointment and for the appointment of a qualified receiver. If
the court revokes the appointment and appoints a qualified receiver, the bond
posted by the owner, mortgagee, or other person shall be applied to the
receiver’s expenses in rehabilitating, demolishing, or selling the vacant
building, structure, or dwelling.
   (F)   Receiver authority exclusive. Upon the appointment of a receiver under
paragraph (D) of this subsection and after the receiver records a notice of
receivership in the county in which the property is located that identifies the
property, all other parties are divested of any authority to collect rents or
other income from or to rehabilitate, demolish, or sell the building,
structure, or dwelling subject to the receivership. Any party other than the
appointed receiver who actively attempts to collect rents or other income from
or to rehabilitate, demolish, or sell the property may be held in contempt of
court and is subject to the penalties authorized by law for that offense. Any
costs or fees incurred by a receiver appointed under this section and set by
the court constitute a lien against the property, and the receiver’s lien has
priority over all other liens and encumbrances, except taxes or other
government assessments.
   (G)   Receiver’s authority to rehabilitate or demolish. In addition to all
necessary and customary powers, a receiver appointed to rehabilitate or
demolish a vacant building, structure, or dwelling has the right of possession
with authority to do all of the following:
      (1)   Contract for necessary labor and supplies for rehabilitation or
demolition.
      (2)   Borrow money for rehabilitation or demolition from an approved
lending institution or through a governmental agency or program, using the
receiver’s lien against the property as security.
      (3)   Manage the property prior to rehabilitation or demolition and pay
operational expenses of the property, including taxes, insurance, utilities,
general maintenance, and debt secured by an interest in the property.
      (4)   Collect all rents and income from the property, which shall be used
to pay for current operating expenses and repayment of outstanding
rehabilitation or demolition expenses.
      (5)   Manage the property after rehabilitation, with all the powers of a
landlord, for a period of up to two years and apply the rent received to
current operating expenses and repayment of outstanding rehabilitation or
demolition expenses.
      (6)   Foreclose on the receiver’s lien or accept a deed in lieu of
foreclosure.
   (H)   Receiver’s authority to sell. In addition to all necessary and
customary powers, a receiver appointed to sell a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling may do all of the following: (i) sell the property to the highest
bidder at public sale, following the same presale notice provisions that apply
to a mortgage foreclosure under G.S. Ch. 45, Art. 2A, and (ii) sell the
property privately for fair market value if no party to the receivership
objects to the amount and procedure. In the notice of public sale authorized
under this subsection, it is sufficient to describe the property by a street
address and reference to the book and page or other location where the property
deed is registered. Prior to any sale under this subsection, the applicants to
bid in the public sale or the proposed buyer in the private sale shall
demonstrate the ability and experience needed to rehabilitate the property
within a reasonable time. After deducting the expenses of the sale, the amount
of outstanding taxes and other government assessments, and the amount of the
receiver’s lien, the receiver shall apply any remaining proceeds of the sale
first to the city’s costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees,
and then to the liens against the property in order of priority. Any remaining
proceeds shall be remitted to the property owner.
   (I)   Receiver forecloses on lien. A receiver may foreclose on the lien
authorized by paragraph (F) of this subsection by selling the property subject
to the lien at a public sale, following public notice and notice to interested
parties in the manner as a mortgage foreclosure under G.S. Ch. 45, Art. 2A.
After deducting the expenses of the sale and the amount of any outstanding
taxes and other government assessments, the receiver shall apply the proceeds
of the sale to the liens against the property, in order of priority. In lieu of
foreclosure, and only if the receiver has rehabilitated the property, an owner
may pay the receiver’s costs, fees, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, and
expenses or may transfer ownership in the property to either the receiver or an
agreed upon third party for an amount agreed to by all parties to the
receivership as being the property’s fair market value.
   (J)   Deed after sale. Following the court’s ratification of the sale of the
property under this section, the receiver shall sign a deed conveying title to
the property to the buyer, free and clear of all encumbrances, other than
restrictions that run with the land. Upon the sale of the property, the
receiver shall at the same time file with the court a final accounting and a
motion to dismiss the action.
   (K)   Receiver’s tenure. The tenure of a receiver appointed to rehabilitate,
demolish, or sell a vacant building, structure, or dwelling shall extend no
longer than two years after the rehabilitation, demolition, or sale of the
property. Any time after the rehabilitation, demolition, or sale of the
property, any party to the receivership may file a motion to dismiss the
receiver upon the payment of the receiver’s outstanding costs, fees, and
expenses. Upon the expiration of the receiver’s tenure, the receiver shall file
a final accounting with the court that appointed the receiver.
   (L)   Administrative fee charged. The city may charge the owner of the
building, structure, or dwelling subject to the receivership an administrative
fee that is equal to 5% of the profits from the sale of the building,
structure, or dwelling or $100, whichever is less.
(G.S. § 160D-1130) (Ord. passed 7-1-2021)
ARTICLE 11: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
11.01   General rules for interpretation
   
11.01.01   Meanings and intent
   
11.01.02   Headings, illustrations and text
   
11.01.03   Lists and examples
   
11.01.04   Computation of time
   
11.01.05   References to other regulations/publications
   
11.01.06   Delegation of authority
   
11.01.07   Technical and nontechnical terms
   
11.01.08   Public officials and agencies
   
11.01.09   Mandatory and discretionary terms
   
11.01.10   Conjunctions
   
11.01.11   Tenses, plurals and gender
   
11.02   Definitions
§ 11.01 GENERAL RULES FOR INTERPRETATION.
§ 11.01.01 MEANINGS AND INTENT.
   All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this development
ordinance shall be construed according to the stated purpose and intent of the
development ordinance or its various sections.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.02 HEADINGS, ILLUSTRATIONS AND TEXT.
   Headings, illustrations in this development ordinance are intended to
supplement and explain the meaning of the text, but shall not be used to
expand, limit or alter the meanings of the words in the text. In case of an
inconsistency between a heading or illustration and the substantive text of any
section, the text of the section shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.03 LISTS AND EXAMPLES.
   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use
terms such as “for example”, “including” and “such as”, or similar language are
intended to provide examples; not to be exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Periods of time defined by a number of days shall mean a number of
consecutive calendar days, including all weekend days, holidays and other non-
business/working days; however, if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, that day shall be excluded.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.05 REFERENCES TO OTHER REGULATIONS/PUBLICATIONS.
   Where this development ordinance refers to other regulations or
publications, the reference shall be to the most recent version of such
regulation or publication, including any amendments that may have been made
after the effective date of this development ordinance. If the regulation or
publication referred to is no longer published or effective, the reference
shall be deemed to be any successor or replacement regulation or publication,
if there is one, as determined by the Planning Director or the Town Manager, in
his or her absence.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.06 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department or division,
or another officer or employee of the town to perform an act or duty, that
provision shall be construed as authorizing the department/division head or
officer to delegate the responsibility to subordinates, unless the terms of the
provision specify otherwise.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.07 TECHNICAL AND NONTECHNICAL TERMS.
   Words and phrases not otherwise defined in this development ordinance shall
be construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases not otherwise defined in this development ordinance
that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
construed and understood according to such meaning.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.08 PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND AGENCIES.
   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which references are made are
those of the town, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.09 MANDATORY AND DISCRETIONARY TERMS.
   The word “shall” is always mandatory, and the words “may” or “should” are
always permissive.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.10 CONJUNCTIONS.
   Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows. “And” indicates that all connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply. “Or” indicates that one or more of the
connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.01.11 TENSES, PLURALS AND GENDER.
   Words used in one tense (past, present or future) include all other tenses,
unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. The singular shall include
the plural, and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine, and vice versa.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
§ 11.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this development
ordinance shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
   ABANDONMENT. A property, use or structure that has been physically and
objectively discontinued, ceased, relinquished, vacated or not maintained for a
consecutive period of 180 days or more days and regardless of any condition or
circumstance beyond the control of such parties that prevent a continuation of
the use or occupancy of the structure or property.
   ABUTTING. See ADJACENT, ADJOINING LOT OR LAND.
   ACCESS. A way of approaching or entering a property, access also includes
ingress, the right to enter, and egress, and the right to leave.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A residential dwelling unit, located on the same
lot as a single-family dwelling unit, either within the same building as the
single-family dwelling unit or in a detached building. Secondary dwelling units
shall be developed in accordance with the standards set forth in this ordinance
and only in those zoning districts where the use is listed as a special use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Poles, barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use on the same lot or in the same building with the
principal use of the lot or building, the nature and extent of which is clearly
incidental or subordinate to that of the principal use.
   ACCRETED LAND. Accretion is defined as the natural addition of land by the
slow action of wind or water. Heavy rain, river or ocean action would have this
effect by either washing up sand or soil or by a permanent retreat of the high
water mark. In general, ACCRETED LAND will be considered to maintain the same
zoning designation as the adjacent land. In any case, the landowner would have
the right to attempt to have the accreted land rezoned, following the usual
rezoning process.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ADJACENT, ADJOINING LOT OR LAND. A lot or parcel of land that shares all or
part of a common lot line or boundary with another lot or parcel of land or
that is directly across a public street or right-of-way.
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an
administrative decision.
   ADULT BUSINESS AND RELATED DEFINITIONS. See definitions in North Topsail
Beach Town Code Chapter 4, Art. III, Adult and Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. See DAY CARE CENTER.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street and is not intended for general traffic.
   ALTERATION. Any change or expansion in the size, configuration or location
of a structure; or any change or expansion in the use of a structure or lot,
from a previously approved or legally existing size, configuration, location or
use.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES (AASS). Structures which are
functionally and legally capable of supporting wireless communication antennae,
including, but not limited to, buildings, water towers and utility poles as an
ancillary use of the primary structure.
   AMENDMENT. Any change by the Board of Aldermen to the unified development
ordinance such as text amendments or changes to the official zoning map.
   AMERICAN MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ASSOCIATION (AMTA). A Washington, D.C.
based industry trade group which serves to support its specialized mobile radio
(SMR) operator members through lobbying and networking efforts.
   ANTENNA. Any apparatus or group of apparatus, designed for the transmitting
and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves that includes, but is not limited to:
telephonic, radio or television communications. ANTENNAS include omni-
directional (whip) antennas, sectorized (panel) antennas, microwave dish
antennas, multi or single bay (FM and amp; TV), or parabolic (dish) antennas,
but do not include satellite earth stations.
   ANTENNA, DISH. A parabolic, spherical or elliptical antenna intended to
receive wireless communications.
   ANTENNA, FLUSH MOUNTED. An antenna that is attached flush to an antenna-
supporting structure, without the use of sidearms or other extension devices.
   ANTENNA, PANEL. A directional antenna designed to transmit and/or receive
signals in a directional pattern that is less than 360 degrees and is not
flush-mounted or dish antenna.
   ANTENNA, SURFACE MOUNTED. An antenna that is attached flush to the surface
or facade of a building or structure other than an antenna-supporting
structure.
   ANTENNA, WHIP. A cylindrical, omni-directional antenna designed to transmit
and/or receive signals in a 360-degree pattern.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning or Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this ordinance.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Board of Aldermen, Board of Adjustment, Planning
Board, Planning Director or official designated by this development ordinance
or by the town as being authorized to grant the specific zoning or land use
permit or approval that constitutes a site-specific development plan.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. A prominent or significant part or element of a
building, structure or site.
   AREA OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN (AEC). The foundation of the CRC’s permitting
program for coastal development. An AEC is an area of natural importance: The
CRC classifies areas as AECs to protect them from uncontrolled development,
which may cause irreversible damage to property, public health or the
environment. The CRC has established four categories of AECs:
      (1)   The estuarine and ocean system;
      (2)   The ocean hazard system;
      (3)   Public water supplies; and
      (4)   Natural and cultural resource areas.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Plans showing location of all existing and constructed
features, certifying that a project was built in accordance with the permit.
   ATTIC. The unfinished space between the ceiling joists of the top story and
the roof rafters.
   BALCONY, EXTERIOR. An exterior floor projecting from and supported by a
structure without additional independent supports.
   BANNER. A sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame,
possessing characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentation’s applied to
plastic or fabric of any kind excluding flags.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “special flood hazard area”, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA-
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the two-
foot “freeboard”, establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation”.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building other than a hotel or motel where, a resident
family, for compensation, provides temporary lodging and meals.
   BEDROOM. Sleeping room. A room designated as sleeping or bedroom on the
plans and permit application.
   BILLBOARD. A sign that identifies, advertises and/or directs the public to a
business, merchandise, service, entertainment or product that is located at a
place other than the property on which such sign is located. See also SIGN,
OFF-PREMISES.
   BLOCK. A tract of land or a lot or group of lots bounded by streets, public
parks, golf courses, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, lakes, unsubdivided
land or a boundary line or lines of the town or any combination of the above.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE. The portion of a block which abuts a single street.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A local body, created by ordinance, whose
responsibility is to hear appeals from decisions of the Zoning Administrator
and to consider requests for variances from the terms of the unified
development ordinance.
   BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The governing body of the Town of North Topsail Beach.
   BOAT LAUNCH/RAMP. Facility to launch and retrieve recreational boats from a
trailer.
   BOAT SLIP. A berthing place for one or two watercraft where the watercraft
can be securely moored to cleats, piling, or other devices while the boats are
in the water. BOAT SLIPS are commonly configured as “side-ties” or as single or
double loaded “U” shaped berths.
   BONA FIDE FARM PURPOSES. Agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. §
160D-903.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUFFER. A fence, wall, hedge or other planted area or device used to
enclose, screen or separate one use or lot from another.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING, EXISTING. A building erected prior to the adoption of this code,
or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance of the highest point of the roof
or any rooftop deck, fence, railing, widow’s walk or other rooftop structure as
measured from the top of the lowest slab and if no slab measured from lowest
adjacent grade as specified on the elevation certificate.
   BUILDING LINE/SETBACK. The line established by this ordinance, beyond which
a building shall not extend, except as specifically provided.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit obtained from the town for the construction,
repair, alteration or addition to a structure, which sets the inspection
schedule and construction techniques for a particular project and specified use
in accordance with this ordinance and adopted building ordinances and other
prevailing standards for construction, and includes the town’s necessary zoning
approval.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL (MAIN). A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the plot on which it is situated.
   BULKHEAD. A vertical wall structure designed to retain shoreline material
and prevent erosion due to wave activity.
   CALIPER. The size of tree’s trunk diameter as measured 36 inches above the
ground.
   CAMOUFLAGED TOWER. A tower which is designed to blend into the surrounding
environment, such as a tower designed to resemble a tree or, if erected on an
existing structure, an integral part of the building.
   CAMPER. A structure manufactured of metal, wood, canvas, plastic or other
materials, or any combination thereof, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation or vacation use. A CAMPER is not designed or intended to be
used as a permanent dwelling. CAMPERS include the following:
      (1)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on chassis,
designed to be towed by a self-propelled vehicle for use for travel, recreation
or vacation purposes. A travel trailer is not designed or meant to be used as a
permanent dwelling.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle or portable
structure mounted on such a vehicle designed as temporary dwelling for travel,
recreation and vacation.
      (3)   TENT. A portable shelter of canvas, plastic or skins stretched over
a supporting framework of poles with skins stretched over a supporting
framework of poles with ropes and pegs.
   CAMPER SPACE. A plot of land within a campground designed for the
accommodation of one camper.
   CAMPGROUND. Any lot upon which multiple campers or tent spaces are provided
for temporary occupancy according to requirements as set forth in this
ordinance. A CAMPGROUND shall also be known as a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK or
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK.
   CARPORT. A covered parking area opened on at least two sides.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (CTIA). A family of
representative companies that support the cellular, PCS and enhanced SMR
carriers industry through lobbying, research and policy efforts.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Building Inspector
allowing the occupancy or use of a building and certifying that the structure
or use has been constructed or will be used in compliance with this ordinance
and all other applicable regulations.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE. Official certification that a premises
conforms to provisions of the unified development ordinance (and building code)
and may be used or occupied, subject to issuance of a certificate of occupancy
by the Building Inspector. Such a certificate is granted for new construction
or for alterations or additions to existing structures or a change in use.
Unless such a certificate is issued, a structure cannot be occupied.
   CHANGE OF USE. See USE, CHANGE OF.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A home occupation providing for day care of no more than
seven children See also HOME OCCUPATION and DAY CARE FACILITY.
   CITATION. A notice by a governmental authority indicating a violation or
possible violation of this ordinance or other applicable government regulations
applicable to the property.
   CLEARING. The removal of trees and brush from the land, but shall not
include the ordinary mowing of grass.
   CLUB OR LODGE (PRIVATE NONPROFIT, CIVIC OR FRATERNAL). Buildings and
facilities, owned or operated by a corporation, association, person or persons,
for a social, educational or recreational purpose, to which membership is
required for participation.
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina’s Coastal Area Management
Act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the Federal Coastal Zone Management
Act, is managed through North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources’ (NCDENR’s) North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality
(NCDEQ) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL A ZONE (CAZ). An area within a special flood hazard area, landward
of a V zone or landward of an open coast without mapped V zones; in a Coastal A
Zone, the principal source of flooding must be astronomical tides, storm
surges, seiches or tsunamis, not riverine flooding. During the base flood
conditions, the potential for wave heights shall be greater than or equal to
one and one-half feet. COASTAL A ZONES are not normally designated on FIRMs
(see LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA)).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by federal or state governments
or private conservation organizations identified as otherwise protected areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM or other adopted flood map as
determined in § 7.03(B), as zones VE and AE.
   CO-LOCATION. The siting of two or more wireless telecommunication antennae
on the same wireless telecommunication support structure.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Any use permitted by this ordinance in one or more of the B-
1 or B-2 zoning district, or as otherwise permitted by this ordinance. Unless
otherwise indicated, the meaning and use of the term “commercial” or “business”
are similar and the terms are interchangeable.
   COMMUNITY BOATING FACILITY. A private, nonprofit boating facility including
a dock, pier and/or launching ramp on property having water frontage, the use
of which is intended to serve more than one residential lot. The right to use
such facility must be conferred by an easement appurtenant to  the residential
lot it is intended to serve. No commercial activities of any kind shall be
allowed within the confines of the facility. The facility shall be limited to
one slip per one residential dwelling unit, not to exceed ten slips.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan, land-use plan, small area plans,
neighborhood plans, transportation plan, capital improvement plan, and any
other plans regarding land use and development that have been officially
adopted by the Board of Aldermen pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501.
   CONDITIONAL ZONING. A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership of single units in a multi-unit structure with common
areas and facilities in accordance with G.S. Ch. 47A.
   CONDOMINIUM HOTEL or CONDOTEL. See HOTELMINIUM.
   CONTIGUOUS. Abutting directly or immediately adjacent to a boundary or
separated only by a street or public utility right-of-way.
   CONVALESCENT HOME (NURSING HOME). An institution, which is advertised,
announced or maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing
or convalescent care for persons unrelated to the licensee. A CONVALESCENT HOME
is a home for chronic or nursing patients who, on admission, are not as a rule
acutely ill or who do not usually require special facilities, such as an
operating room, X-ray facilities, laboratory facilities and obstetrical
facilities.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small store or shop used as a convenient supplement to
main shopping that stocks a range of everyday items such as groceries,
toiletries, alcoholic and soft drinks.
   COUNTY. Any one of the counties listed in G.S. § 153A-10.
   CROSSOVER (DUNE). Wooden walkway and steps providing access to the beach,
which protect dunes by eliminating foot traffic.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A day care facility as defined in G.S. § 110-86(3) as well
as a center providing day care on a regular basis for more than two hours per
day for more than five adults or children.
   DECISION MAKING BOARD. The Board of Aldermen, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment or other board assigned to make quasi-judicial decisions under this
ordinance.
   DECK. An accessory structure, with or without a roof, directly adjacent to a
principal building, which may be constructed of any materials and may either be
freestanding or attached to a building and supported by pillars or posts.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DENSITY. A ratio expressed as the number of dwelling units per acre (DUA).
The ratio is derived by dividing the total number of dwelling units by the
total land area (in acres).
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DETERMINATION. A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision.
   DEVELOPER. Any person who engages in development either as the owner or as
the agent of an owner of property.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
         (b)   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of
land.
         (c)   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. § 160D-802.
         (d)   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land.
      (2)   This definition does not alter the scope of regulatory authority
granted by this ordinance.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as DEVELOPMENT which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this article that is written and that is required prior to
commencing development or undertaking a specific activity, project, or
development proposal. DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS include, but are not limited to,
zoning permits, site plan approvals, special use permits, variances, and
certificates of appropriateness. The term also includes all other regulatory
approvals required by regulations adopted pursuant to this article, including
plat approvals, permits issued, development agreements entered into, and
building permits issued.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation,
subdivision regulation, erosion and sedimentation control regulation,
floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation, mountain ridge protection
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulatio
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH). The diameter of a tree measured four and
one-half feet above the ground.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of a luminaire.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   DISTRICT. An area delineated on the official zoning district map for which
this ordinance sets forth standards and guidelines for development.
   DISTURBED AREA. The portion of the lot that is allocated for land disturbing
activities and construction of structures and associated improvements.
   DOCK. A pier, wharf or platform for the unloading of materials or living
beings.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT or THROUGH LOT. See LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system through which water flows from the land. It
includes all watercourses, water bodies and wetlands.
   DRIVEWAY, PRIVATE. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress. That
portion of the property area that consists of a travel lane bounded on either
side by an area that is not part of the vehicle accommodation area. A driveway
includes the driveway ramp or entrance at the road, throat, travel lane and
parking stall connected to either a private, public or state road.
   DUNE. A naturally placed mound of earth or sand, vegetated or un-vegetated,
that can be independent or part of an incorporated system. The word DUNE shall
include:
      (1)   Estuarine frontal dunes: the first mounds of sand located landward
of the estuarine waters of the intercoastal and having a minimum elevation
equal to mean flood level plus six feet;
      (2)   Frontal dunes: the first mound of sand located landward of the
ocean beach having sufficient vegetation, height, continuity and configuration
to offer protective value;
      (3)   Interior dunes: all dunes located in the town that are not
considered frontal dunes; and
      (4)   Primary dunes: the first mounds of sand located landward of the
ocean beaches having an elevation equal to mean flood level for the area plus
six feet. Primary dunes extend landward to the lowest elevation in the
depression behind the same mound of sand.
   DUPLEX. A building containing two dwelling units: where the building is
designed to be occupied by two families living independently from each other.
The DUPLEX must have a continuous common wall and/or floor assemblies having
less than a one-hour fire-resistance rating. A breezeway or porch connection
will not be considered a common or party wall.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith. For the purposes of this ordinance, the term does not
include any recreational vehicle.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. Comprises uses that provide instruction and training
in a wide variety of subjects. This instruction and training is provided by
specialized establishments, such as schools, colleges, universities and
training centers. These establishments may be privately owned and operated for
profit or not for profit, or they may be publicly owned and operated. They may
also offer food and accommodation services to their students. EDUCATIONAL
SERVICES are usually delivered by  teachers or instructors that explain, tell,
demonstrate, supervise and direct learning. Instruction is imparted in diverse
settings, such as educational institutions, the workplace, or the home through
correspondence, television or other means. It can be adapted to the particular
needs of the students, for example sign language can replace verbal language
for teaching students with hearing impairments. All industries in the sector
share this commonality of process, namely, labor inputs of instructors with the
requisite subject matter expertise and teaching ability.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood area, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (EA). An assessment of a project’s environmental
impact as defined in the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by wind, water, ice or other
geologic agents. Erosion occurs naturally from weather or runoff, but is often
intensified by human land use practices.
   EVIDENTIARY HEARING. A hearing to gather competent, material and substantial
evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by a
development regulation adopted under this ordinance.
   EVCS LEVEL 1. May be allowed in residential as accessory to the primary
permitted use. Such stations located at single-family, two-family, and multi-
family land uses shall be designated as private restricted use only. Must meet
requirements of Article 7 and building, electrical and accessibility codes.
   EVCS LEVEL 2. May be allowed in residential or commercial districts. Such
stations located at single family, two-family, and multi-family land uses shall
be designated as private restricted use only. Must meet requirements of Article
7 and building, electrical and accessibility codes.
   EVCS LEVEL 3. May be allowed in commercial districts. Must meet requirements
of Article 7 and building, electrical and accessibility codes.
   EXISTING BUILDING and EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the community entered the
NFIP, dated June 2, 1987.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the community entered the NFIP, dated June 2, 1987.
   FALL RADIUS. A physical radius prescribed by the total effective height of
any tower which includes an area which theoretically could be penetrated by the
collapse of that tower.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A dwelling that provides room and board for not more than
six persons who because of age, illness, handicap or specialized program,
require personalized services or a supervised living arrangement in order to
assure their safety and comfort that is regulated by the state. (For purposes
of FAMILY CARE HOMES, a “handicapped person” as defined in G.S. § 168-21(2)
means a person with a temporary or permanent physical, emotional or mental
disability including but not limited to mental retardation, cerebral palsy,
epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances and
orthopedic impairments but not including mentally ill persons who are dangerous
to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b. If the home is not licensed under
G.S. Ch. 31D, Article 1 or is exempt from state licensing, the home shall be
considered a group home and shall be subject to all applicable requirements of
this ordinance.
   FARMERS MARKET. A specialty market with or without a structure principally
for the sale of produce, plants and flowers. Value-added agricultural products
such as honey or jam, along with handmade craft items, may be sold, provided
their sale is ancillary to the sale of produce, plants and flowers.
   FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA). The Federal Agency responsible for
regulating aviation in the United States.
   FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC). The Federal Agency responsible for
regulating telecommunications in the United States.
   FLEA MARKET. A specialty market, where the use involves the setting up of
two or more booths, tables, platforms, racks or similar display areas for the
purpose of selling, buying or trading merchandise, goods, materials, products
or other items offered for sale outside an enclosed building. FLEA MARKETS
shall not include any of the following activities which occur at the same
location four or fewer days in any calendar year: garage sales, produce stands
or fundraising activities done by a nonprofit organization.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY and FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the FEMA, on which the special flood hazard areas and the floodways
are delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, where the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas have been
defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the national flood
insurance program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated (see also DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the FEMA. The
flood insurance study report includes flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and
flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD OR SPOT LIGHT. Any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a reflector
or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a
particular direction.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This unified development ordinance and
other zoning, flood damage prevention ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose flood damage prevention
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified state
licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic models
meeting the minimum requirement of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOR AREA. For determining off-street parking and loading requirements: the
sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of the principal building, and
any accessory buildings or structures, measured from the exterior walls or from
the center line of party walls. The term does not include any area used
exclusively for the surface parking of motor vehicles or for building or
equipment access, such as stairs, elevator shafts and maintenance crawl space.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total square footage on all floors within a building.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the FREEBOARD establishes the
“regulatory flood protection elevation”.
   FRONTAGE. The lot boundary that coincides with a public thoroughfare or
space; the facade of a structure facing the street.
   FULL CUT-OFF TYPE FIXTURE. A luminaire or light fixture that by design of
the fixture housing does not allow any light dispersion or direct glare to
shine above a 90-degree horizontal plane from the base of the fixture.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   FUTURE CONNECTION. The extension of a street to an external property line to
facilitate future roadway connection and reduce traffic impacts on the road
network.
   GARAGE APARTMENT. A structure above a private garage in which provision is
made for one dwelling unit. See also ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   GARAGE (PRIVATE). A building used as an accessory to or a part of the main
building permitted in any residential district, and providing for the storage
of motor vehicles and in which no business, or service for profit is in any way
conducted.
   GAZEBO. A freestanding roofed, open-sided structure providing a shady
resting place.
   GEOGRAPHIC SEARCH AREA. An area designated by a wireless provider or
operator for a new base station facility, produced in accordance with generally
accepted principles of wireless engineering.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land designed and laid out for the game of golf
having at least nine holes, each with a tee, fairway, green and one or more
hazards. A clubhouse, pool and other facilities associated with a country club
built around a golf course are considered part of the GOLF COURSE. This
definition does not include miniature golf.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The City Council or Board of County Commissioners. The term
is interchangeable with the terms “Board of Aldermen” and “Boards of
Commissioners” and means any Board of Aldermen without regard to the
terminology employed in charters, local acts, other portions of the General
Statutes, or local customary usage. The Board of Aldermen for North Topsail
Beach is the Board of Aldermen.
   GRADE. The finished ground level adjoining the building at all exterior
walls.
   GROUP HOME. A dwelling operated under state regulations that provides room
and board for more than six, but less than 13 individuals who as a result of
age, illness, handicap or some specialized program, require personalized
services or a supervised living arrangement in order to assure their safety and
comfort. Additional requirements may be imposed by the International Building
Code with North Carolina Amendments.
   GUESTHOUSE. A separate residence for guests.
   HALF-STREET. A street whose center line coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary, with one-half the street right-of-way width being contained within
the subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the parcel of land to
be subdivided abuts on only one side.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional or mental disability including, but not limited to, mental
retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments,
emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments but not including mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “certified local government (CLG) program”; or
      (4)   (a)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “certified local government
(CLG) program”.
         (b)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended in 1980.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A commercial activity conducted within a residential
structure.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or
tenants, where rooms are furnished for the accommodation of such guests; and
may have one or more dining rooms, restaurants or cafes where meals are served.
   HOTELMINIUM. A structure containing individually owned hotel or efficiency
units, and operated in the manner of a hotel or motel.
   ICE VENDING MACHINE. A freestanding building or modular unit (not to exceed
200 square feet and heights limited to 15 feet) that produces, stores, bags
and/or vends ice to the consumer in an automated fashion.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface which in whole or in part, restricts or
prevents the natural absorption of water into the ground. Such surfaces may
include, but not be limited to compacted earth (such as marl and coquina),
concrete, asphalt or other paving material, and all area covered by the
footprint of buildings or structures. Porous pavement, gravel, uncovered wooden
slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.
   INCOMPATIBLE USE. A use or service which is unsuitable for direct
association and/or contiguity with certain other uses because it is
contradictory, incongruous or discordant.
   INOPERATIVE VEHICLE. Any vehicle, designed to be self-propelled, which by
virtue of broken or missing component parts, is no longer capable of self-
propulsion. For the purpose of this ordinance, any vehicle which is registered
with the North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles and has a current North
Carolina motor vehicle registration license affixed to it shall not be
considered INOPERATIVE.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any person that has an interest in any proceeding or
action being proposed or taken.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
(G.S. § 136-143)
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills. An establishment or place of business which
stores or keeps for a period of 15 days or more materials within the meaning of
JUNK as defined above which had been derived or created as a result of
industrial activity shall be deemed to be a JUNKYARD. (G.S. § 136-143)
   KENNEL. A commercial non-incidental or nonprofit establishment used as
housing, leasing, sealing, training, rehabilitating, breeding, grooming or
fostering of any species, excluding domesticated livestock.
   LAND AREA. The total square footage within a development project property
boundary.
   LANDOWNER OR OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax records to determine who
is a LANDOWNER. The LANDOWNER may authorize a person holding a valid option,
lease, or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for
the purpose of making applications for development approvals.
   LANDSCAPE LIGHTING. Luminaries mounted in or at grade (but not more than
three feet above grade) and used solely for landscape rather than any area
lighting.
   LANDSCAPING. The installation and maintenance, usually of a combination of
trees, shrubs, plant materials or other ground cover, including grass, mulch,
decorative stone and similar materials, but excluding bare soil, uncultivated
vegetation, impervious pavement materials and gravel. Any live plant material
such as trees, shrubs, ground cover and grass areas left in their natural
state.
   LATTICE-TYPE STRUCTURE. A self-supporting, three- or four-sided open steel
frame structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
   LEGISLATIVE DECISION. The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation
under this article or an applicable local act. The term also includes the
decision to approve, amend, or rescind a development agreement consistent with
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10.
   LEGISLATIVE HEARING. A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance
study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property or structure is not
located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective flood insurance rate map or
flood insurance study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a letter of map revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LIGHTING, OUTDOOR. The night-time illumination of an outside area or object
by any manmade device located outdoors that produces light by any means.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The boundary line given by FEMA on
coastal map studies marking the extents of Coastal A Zones (CAZ).
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space logically and conveniently located for bulk
pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used, and
accessible to such vehicles. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to be
included as off-street parking space in computation of required OFF-STREET
PARKING SPACE.
   LOCAL ACT. As defined in G.S. § 160A-1(5).
   LOCAL AND STATE GOVERNMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE (LSGAC). An FCC-established
group which works with both carriers and communities on antenna siting
solutions.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A city or county.
   LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership occupied or intended for occupancy
by a principal building, together with its accessory buildings; including the
open space required under this ordinance. For the purpose of this ordinance,
the word LOT shall be taken to mean any number of contiguous lots of record for
location of one principal building and its accessory buildings.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting the intersection of two or more streets or a lot
abutting on a curved  street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot at the apex meet at any angle of less than 135
degrees. In such, a case the apex of the curve forming the CORNER LOT shall be
considered as the intersection of  street lines for the purpose of this
ordinance, such as in corner visibility requirements.
   LOT COVERAGE. The built-upon area that is covered by impervious or partially
impervious cover  including buildings, pavement, recreation facilities, but not
including decking.
   LOT DEPTH. The depth of a lot is the average distance between the front and
back lot lines measured at right angles to its frontage and from corner to
corner.
   LOT, FLAG. A large lot not meeting minimum lot frontage requirements and
where access to a public or private street is provided by means of a long,
narrow driveway between abutting lots.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The line bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot that is shown on a subdivision recorded in the office
of Register of Deeds, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description
of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
incorporation of the town.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A key lot or the first lot to the rear of a corner
lot, the front lot line of which is a continuation of the side lot line of the
corner lot, and fronting on the street that intersects the street upon which
the corner lot fronts and/or that faces the street upon which the side of a
corner lot abuts.
   LOT, THROUGH (ALSO LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE). An interior lot having frontage on
two streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the points where the building
setback line intersects the two side lot lines.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area. An unfinished or
flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or limited storage in an area other than a basement area is not
considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such an enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this ordinance.
   LUMINAIRE, FULLY SHIELDED (FULL CUTOFF). A luminaire emitting no light above
the horizontal plane.
   LUMINAIRE (LIGHT FIXTURE). A complete lighting unit consisting of one or
more electric lamps, the lamp holder, any reflector or lens, ballast (if any),
and any other components and accessories.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carries the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data, the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARINA. Any publicly or privately owned dock, basin or wet boat storage
facility constructed to accommodate more than ten boats and providing any of
the following services: permanent or transient docking spaces, dry storage,
fueling facilities, haulout facilities and repair service. Excluded from this
definition are boat ramp facilities allowing access only, temporary docking and
none of the preceding services. Boat ramp facilities providing access only are
excluded.
(NCAC 10B.1401(9))
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE can be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MOBILE OFFICE. A structure identical to a manufactured home except that it
has been converted, or originally designed and constructed, for commercial or
office use.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a MODULAR HOME may consist of two or more sections transported
to the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that the modular
home meets the North Carolina State Building Code), or a series of panels or
room sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the
site.
   MONOPOLE TOWERS. A slender, open-telescoping, self-supporting tower used to
support telecommunications equipment.
   NATURAL AREA. The portion of the lot that is required to remain undisturbed
in its natural state and retain its natural vegetation. Disturbance of the
NATURAL AREA and the removal of natural vegetation shall be permitted only as
specifically authorized in this ordinance.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A structure that does not conform or
comply with the dimensional regulations of this ordinance for the district in
which it is located, either at the effective date of this ordinance or the
regulation from which it derives, or as a result of one or more subsequent
amendments to them.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this ordinance
(May 2, 1990) or any amendment to it (and not created for the purpose of
evading the restrictions of this ordinance) that cannot meet the minimum
dimensional requirements of the district in which the lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective date of this
ordinance or of the regulations from which it arises, or amendment to them,
that renders such sign nonconforming because it does not conform to all the
standards and regulations of the adopted or amended ordinance or regulation.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a building, manufactured home or land which
does not conform to the use regulations of this ordinance for the district in
which it is located, either at the effective date of this ordinance (May 2,
1990) or as a result of subsequent amendments which may be incorporated into
this ordinance.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). The official vertical datum
in the National Spatial Reference System (NSRS) for the Conterminous United
States and Alaska. A vertical datum is a surface of zero ground elevation to
which heights of various points are referenced. Mean sea level was not a good
reference due to differences at various locations.
   NUISANCE. Anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property.
   NURSING HOME. See CONVALESCENT HOME.
   OBTRUSIVE LIGHT. Spill light that causes glare, annoyance, discomfort or
loss of visual ability. Light pollution.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the North
Topsail Beach Board of Aldermen.
   OPEN SPACE. 
      (1)   Any land or area, the preservation of which in its present use
would:
         (a)   Conserve and enhance natural or scenic resources;
         (b)   Protect streams or water supply;
         (c)   Promote conservation of soils, wetlands, beaches or tidal
marshes;
         (d)   Enhance the value to the public of abutting or neighboring
parks, forests, wildlife preserves, nature reservations or sanctuaries; or
         (e)   Enhance recreation opportunities.
      (2)   OPEN SPACE. Shall not include lands below mean high water.
   ORDINANCE. This unified development ordinance, text and map including any
amendments. Whenever the effective date of the ORDINANCE is referred to, the
reference includes the effective date of any amendment to it.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
(CBRS).
   OVERLAY ZONING. Zoning which crosses other zoning lines which may add
additional requirements to each line crossed or “overlaid”. Note: does not
include areas established by the state or federal government such as the inlet
hazard area or the coastal resource barrier system.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PARK. Land consisting of open space, in grasses, trees and possibly with
shrubbery, sometimes providing paths for walking and bicycling, maintained as a
public or semi-public use. PARKS are usually either a formal landscape, or
maintained in basically a natural state.
   PARKING LOT. Any public or private area, providing ten or more parking
spaces designed and used for parking or storing motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A storage space of not less than 160 square feet for one
automobile.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public
or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private
institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State of North Carolina
and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity.
   PERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that permits full or partial absorption of
stormwater into previously unimproved land.
   PIER. A water-related structure extending into the water from the shore,
whether floating or fixed to the bottom, for use as a boat landing place or
promenade, constructed of pylons and decking for mooring and access to a boat
or watercraft. May also include structures designed and constructed to serve as
a means of recreational access (fishing and the like) to the ocean and sound
waters.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
      (1)   A zoning overlay;
      (2)   A special use designed to provide for developments incorporating a
single type or a variety of residential and related uses which are planned and
developed as a unit. Such development may consist of individual lots and common
building sites. Common open space must be an element of the plan related to
affecting the long-term value of the entire development; or
      (3)   A subdivision designed to permit flexibility and allow creative
approaches to residential development not usually associated with conventional
subdivisions. Flexible setbacks and lot sizes are considered.
   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION. The geographic area
defined in § 1.05 of this ordinance within which the town may undertake
planning and apply the development regulations authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D.
   PLANNING BOARD. The town’s committee empowered to prepare a comprehensive
plan and to evaluate proposed changes in land use, either by public or private
developers, for conformance with the plan.
   PLAT. A document, prepared by a registered surveyor or engineer, that
delineates property lines and shows monuments and other landmarks for the
purpose of identifying property.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after July 2, 1987, the effective date of the
initial flood insurance rate map.
   POSTAL SERVICE. Comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating the
national postal service. Establishments primarily engaged in performing one or
more POSTAL SERVICES, such as sorting, routing and/or delivery, on a contract
basis (except the bulk transportation of mail) are included in this industry.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before July 2, 1987, the effective date of the initial
flood insurance rate map.
   PREMISES. A single piece of property as conveyed in a deed or a lot or a
number of adjacent lots on which is situated a land use, a building, or group
of buildings designed as a unit or on which a building or group of buildings
are to be constructed.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge
of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward
and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high
tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary
frontal dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a
relatively steep slope to a relatively mild slope.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PRIVATE CLUBS. See CLUB OR LODGE.
   PROPERTY. All real property subject to land-use regulation by the town. The
term includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as a part of
real property.
   PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION. Consists of establishments of federal, state and
local government agencies that administer, oversee and manage public programs
and have executive, legislative or judicial authority over other institutions
within a given area.
   PUBLIC ROAD OR STREET. A road or street that has been dedicated for use and
maintenance by the town or the state and serves as the principal means of
access to abutting properties.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An approved sewage disposal system serving
two or more connections including private, municipal and sanitary district
sewage systems located and constructed according to specifications of the
County Health Department in consultation with the division of health services
and/or the division of environmental management of the department of
environment, health and natural resources. This definition is not to be
inferred as limited to publicly owned or operated systems, as such systems may
be owned and operated by either public or private enterprise.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. An approved water supply system serving 15 or
more connections including county, municipal and sanitary district water
systems designated to serve particular subdivisions at full development and
constructed to specifications of the county health office in consultation with
the division of health services and/or the division of environmental management
of the department of environment, health and natural resources. This definition
is not to be inferred as limited to publicly owned or operated systems, as such
systems may be owned and operated by either public or private enterprise.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION. A decision involving the finding of facts regarding
a specific application of a development regulation and that requires the
exercise of discretion when applying the standards of the regulation. The term
includes, but is not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use
permits, certificates of appropriateness, and appeals of administrative
determinations. Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans
are QUASI-JUDICIAL in nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making
board to approve or deny the application based not only upon whether the
application complies with the specific requirements set forth in the
regulation, but also on whether the application complies with one or more
generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the findings
to be made by the decision-making board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).
      (1)   A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck;
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use;
and
         (e)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (2)   For the purpose of this ordinance, “tiny homes/houses” and park
models that do not meet these items listed above are not considered
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES and should meet the standards of and be permitted as
residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor for structures within all special flood hazard areas.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar
violations, or reducing federal financial exposure with regard to the structure
or other development.
   RENTAL, SHORT-TERM. See SEASONAL RENTAL.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damage sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights, it simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land overlying a dedicated street reserved
to the town or NCDOT for control of access until such time as additional right-
of-way is accepted by the town or NCDOT for the continuation or widening of the
street.
   RESTAURANT. A commercial establishment where food and drink are prepared,
served and consumed primarily within the principal building.
   RETAINING WALL. A human-made barrier constructed for the purpose of
stabilizing soil, retarding erosion or terracing a parcel or site.
   RETREAT CENTER. A new or existing facility operated by a corporation or
association of persons or churches for social and recreational purposes. A
RETREAT CENTER may be owned by a profit or  not-for-profit organization.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA(S) (SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS). A single or group of
satellite parabolic (or dish) antennas. These dishes are mounted to a
supporting device that may be a pole or truss assembly attached to a foundation
in the ground, or in some other configuration. A SATELLITE EARTH STATION may
include the associated separate equipment enclosures necessary for the
transmission or reception of wireless communications signals with satellites.
   SCREENING. A fence, wall, hedge, landscaping, earth berm, buffer area or any
combination of these provided to create a visual and/or physical separation
between certain land uses. SCREENING may be located on the property line or
elsewhere on the site.
   SEASONAL RENTAL. The rental of residential property for vacation, leisure or
recreation purposes for fewer than 90 days by a person who has a place of
permanent residence to which he or she intends to return, as defined by the NC
Vacation Act 42A-4, as amended.
   SETBACK. The required distance between every structure and the lot lines of
the lot on which it is located.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM, PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY. See PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   SHALL. The term, when used in this ordinance, is construed as mandatory.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned and
constructed as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities
provided on the property and related in location size and type of shops to the
trade area which the unit serves.
   SIGN. A communication device, structure or fixture used to attract attention
or convey a message, when the same is placed in view of the general public and
includes every billboard, freestanding ground sign, wall sign, roof sign,
illuminated sign, projecting sign and temporary sign.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign pertaining to or associated with an event, business
or purpose which is no longer ongoing and which has been inactive or out of
business for a period of 90 consecutive days or longer; or a sign which
contains structural components but no display for a period of 90 consecutive
days or longer.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign that has as its purpose to promote, advertise or
sell a product or service obtainable on the premises upon which the sign is
located, and not to identify the premises.
   SIGN AREA. Shall be measured by the smallest square, rectangle, triangle,
circle or combination thereof, which will encompass the entire advertising copy
area including architectural trim and structural members. In computing AREA,
only one side of a double-faced sign shall be considered.
   SIGN, COMBINATION. A sign incorporating any combination of the features of
the pole, projecting and roof signs.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Any on-premises sign that includes information assisting
in the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic such as enter, exit and one-way.
   SIGN, DISPLAY. The area made available by the sign structure for the purpose
of displaying the advertising message.
   SIGN, ELECTRIC. A sign containing electrical wiring, but not including signs
illuminated by an exterior light source.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported wholly or in part by some structure
other than the building or buildings housing the business to which the sign
pertains, or any sign which projects more than five feet from the side of the
building to which it is attached.
   SIGN, GROUND. A billboard or similar type of sign which is supported by one
or more uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground other than a
combination sign or pole sign, as defined by the ordinance.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign used to display only the name, address, crest
or trademark of the business, individual, family, organization or enterprise
occupying the premises, the profession of the occupant or the name of the
building on which the sign is displayed; or a permanent sign announcing the
name of a subdivision, shopping center, tourist home, group housing project,
church, school, park or public or quasi-public structure, facility or
development and the name of the owners or developers.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such
sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, POLE. A sign wholly supported by a sign structure in the ground.
   SIGN, PORTABLE DISPLAY SURFACE. A display surface temporarily fixed to a
standardized advertising structure which is regularly moved from structure to
structure at periodic intervals.
   SIGN, PRINCIPAL USE OR ON-PREMISES. Any sign advertising an establishment, a
service commodity, or activity conducted upon the premises where the sign is
located.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of a building or structure.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE (OFF-SITE). A readily removable sign announcing the
proposed sale or rental of property other than the property upon which the sign
is located and providing directions to the subject property.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE (ON-SITE). A sign announcing the sale or rental of the
property upon which the sign is located.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building or
structure.
   SIGN, SNIPE. A sign which is attached to trees, poles or to other objects,
with a message appearing on it that does not apply to the present use of the
premises or structure upon which the sign is located. Any sign in the state or
town right-of-way is a SNIPE SIGN, unless a minor easement and permit has  been
issued by the town.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports or is capable of supporting a
sign as defined in the ordinance.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building
or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the
plane of said wall.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing one dwelling unit only, where
the building is designed to be occupied by one family.
   SITE PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The SITE PLAN may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review. A SITE PLAN approval based
solely upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision
and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon the application of
standards involving judgment and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision. A
SITE PLAN may also be approved as part of a conditional zoning decision.
   SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
      (1)   A plan of land development submitted to the town for purposes of
obtaining one of the following zoning or land use permits:
         (a)   Subdivision plans as referenced in the subdivision ordinance in
effect at the time a vested right is requested; or
         (b)   Conditional use district and/or permit and planned unit
development (PUD) as referenced in the zoning ordinance in effect at the time a
vested right is requested.
      (2)   All SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS shall conform to the referenced
ordinances as well as the following:
         (a)   The approximate boundaries of the site;
         (b)   Significant topographical and other natural features affecting
development of the site;
         (c)   The approximate location on the site of the proposed buildings,
structures and other improvements;
         (d)   The approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed
buildings and other structures; and
         (e)   The approximate locations of all existing and proposed
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads and pedestrian
walkways.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither a variance, a sketch plan
nor any other document that fails to describe with reasonable certainty the
type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property shall
constitute a SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
7.03(B).
   SPECIALTY MARKET. Rented spaces at a location other than a permanent retail
store, to others for the purpose of selling goods at retail or offering goods
for sale at retail (i.e., flea market, farmers market).
   SPILL LIGHT. Light from a lighting installation that falls outside of the
boundaries of the property on which it is located. Usually results in obtrusive
light.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STEALTH WIRELESS TRANSMISSION FACILITY. A wireless transmission facility
that is screened, disguised, concealed or otherwise camouflaged as a natural
structure, structure or part of a structure such that the wireless transmission
facility is indistinguishable from other natural structures, structures or the
structure that it is attached to or within.
   STREET. A thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A street designed with a closed end, terminated by a
vehicular turnaround and does not intersect with another street.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any road or street which:
      (1)   Is not publicly owned and maintained and is used for access by the
occupants of the development, their guests, and the general public; and
      (2)   Requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement pursuant to
G.S. § 136-102.6, as amended.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders except for repair or
replacement.
   STRUCTURE. A walled or roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land for the purpose of sale or development as
specified in G.S. § 160D-802.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATION. The subdivision regulation contained in Article 5 of
this ordinance and authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 8.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure  on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the
cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
(Note: The last sentence is required for eligibility for increased cost of
compliance (ICC) benefits for repetitive losses.)
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to § 7.04(E).
   SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent outdoor structure intended for swimming or
recreational bathing that contains water over 24 inches deep including in-
ground, above-ground and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, but not
including temporary or inflatable pools having a depth of 24 inches or less. A
structure is considered “outdoor” if it is not totally contained within a
roofed structure and surrounded on all four sides by the walls of the enclosing
structure.
   TAXI SERVICE. Comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing
passenger transportation by automobile or van, not operated over regular routes
and on regular schedules. Establishments of taxicab owner/operators, taxicab
fleet operators or taxicab organizations are included in this industry.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET.
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in 44 CFR 60.3. The
bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by state and local
officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by
members of the development community, such as design professionals and
builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing bulletins, are issued
periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create regulations, rather they
provide specific guidance for complying with the minimum requirements of
existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that technical bulletins and technical fact
sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of the state or local building code
must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   TOWAIR. Landing facility slope calculations designed to avoid obstruction by
towers to aircraft.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three or
more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to roof and
with open space on at least two sides.
   USE, CHANGE OF. The replacement of an existing use by a new use, or a change
in the nature of an existing use, but not including, a change of ownership,
tenancy or management where the previous nature of the use, line of business or
other function is substantially unchanged.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which is permitted in a district for which a zoning
permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use which is permitted under certain conditions in a
district only after review by the Planning Board and final approval by the
Board of Aldermen after review by the Planning Board.
   UTILITIES. Comprises uses engaged in the provision of the following utility
services: electric power, natural gas, steam supply, water supply and sewage
removal. Within this sector, the specific activities associated with the
utility services provided vary by utility: electric power includes generation,
transmission and distribution; natural gas includes distribution; steam supply
includes provision and/or distribution; water supply includes treatment and
distribution; and sewage removal includes collection, treatment and disposal of
waste through sewer systems and sewage treatment facilities. Excluded from this
sector are establishments primarily engaged in waste management services
classified in Subsector 562, Waste Management and Remediation Services. These
establishments also collect, treat and dispose of waste materials; however,
they do not use sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this ordinance. Also, a structure or other development without
the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of
compliance required in §§ 7.04 and 7.05 is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WALKWAY or BOARDWALK. A wooden walkway for pedestrians providing a common
path through wetlands or to crossovers of coastal dunes and other sensitive
environments.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES. Those structures that require access or
proximity to or sitting within surface waters to fulfill its purpose, such as
boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities such as
restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots, and commercial boat
storage areas are not water dependent structures. Reference 15A NCAC 02B.0202.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WETLANDS. Waters defined to be wetlands as determined by the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality and/or the United States Army Corps of
Engineers. WETLANDS shall also include all waters defined as wetlands by NC
Session Law 2023-63/NC Senate Bill 582, as may be amended from time to time.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ATTACHMENTS (WTA). Devices mounted onto a
support structure, principally intended to radiate or receive a source of non-
ionizing electromagnetic radiation (NIER), and accessory equipment related to
broadcast services, including, but not limited to, private radio services,
cellular or digital telephone services, pagers, beepers, wireless data
repeaters and common carriers (as regulated by the FCC), including AM, FM, two-
way radio, fixed point microwave dishes, commercial satellite, HDTV, cellular
and PCS communication systems. The term WTA does not include electrical or
telephone transmission lines or supporting distribution structures, antennas of
amateur radio (ham) operators, and amateur club services licensed by the FCC.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE (WTSS). All freestanding
monopole, self-supported, guyed or similar structures whose primary design is
to provide for support and placement of wireless telecommunications antennas.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building (including the area of
steps, eaves and uncovered porches, but not including the areas of covered
porches) unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or
shrubbery or as otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the front
building line to the rear yard or, where no rear yard is required, to the rear
line of the lot.
   ZERO LOT LINE. A concept commonly used in planned developments where
individual commercial buildings or dwellings, such as townhouses (row houses),
duplex town homes and patio homes, are sold along with a small yard or patio
area. Such commercial or residential units are grouped in buildings with two or
more units per building, usually including common walls or married walls. With
ZERO LOT LINE development styles, the minimum interior side yard requirements
are relaxed. Construction takes place right up to the lot line.
   ZONING. A police-power measure, enacted primarily by general-purpose units
of local government, in which the community is divided into districts or zones
within which permitted and conditional uses are established as are regulations
governing lot size, building bulk, placement and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district, but they must be uniform within
districts. The unified development ordinance consists of two parts: a text and
a map.
   ZONING. A police-power measure, enacted primarily by general-purpose units
of local government, in which the community is divided into districts or zones
within which permitted and conditional uses are established as are regulations
governing lot size, building bulk, placement and other development standards.
Requirements vary from district to district, but they must be uniform within
districts. The unified development ordinance consists of two parts: a text and
a map.
   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT or REZONING. An amendment to a zoning regulation for
the purpose of changing the zoning district that is applied to a specified
property or properties. The term also includes (i) the initial application of
zoning when land is added to the territorial jurisdiction of the town that has
previously adopted zoning regulations and (ii) the application of an overlay
zoning district or a conditional zoning district. The term does not include (i)
the initial adoption of a zoning map by the town, (ii) the repeal of a zoning
map and readoption of a new zoning map for the entire planning and development
regulation jurisdiction, or (iii) updating the zoning map to incorporate
amendments to the names of zoning districts made by zoning text amendments
where there are no changes in the boundaries of the zoning district or land
uses permitted in the district.
   ZONING REGULATION. The zoning regulation contained in Article 4 of this
ordinance and authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 7.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 153A-344.1 to undertake and
complete the development and use of land under the terms and conditions of an
approved site development plan even if the zoning or zoning district
requirements are changed prior to development.
(Ord. passed 12-2-2004; Ord. passed 3-3-2005; Ord. passed 6-1-2006; Ord. passed
5-6-2010; Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2015-4, passed 5-7-2015; Ord. passed 11-
3-2016; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-1-2021; Ord. passed 7-1-2023; Ord.
passed 4-5-2023; Ord. passed 10-4-2023)
TABLE 11-1 ABBREVIATIONS
   Below is a list of abbreviations and their meanings found throughout the
ordinance.
AASS  Alternative antenna support structures
AEC   Area of environmental concern
AMTA  American Mobile Telecommunications Association
BFE   Base flood elevation
BOA   Board of Aldermen
CAMA  Coastal Area Management Act
CBRS  Coastal barrier resources system
CLOMR Conditional letter of map revision
dbh   Diameter at breast height
DENR  North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DWQ   Division of Water Quality
FAR   Floor area ratio
Fc    Foot-candles
FEMA  Federal Emergency Management Agency
FIRM  Flood insurance rate map
FIS   Flood insurance study
GIS   Geographic information system
G.S.  North Carolina General Statutes
HAG   Highest adjacent grade
HQW   High quality water
LAG   Lowest adjacent grade
LOMR  Letter of map revision
LSGAC Local and State Government Advisory Committee
NCDOT North Carolina Department of Transportation
NFIP  National flood insurance program
NGVD  National geodetic vertical datum
OPA   Otherwise protected area
P     Permitted use
PB    Planning Board
ROW   Right-of-way
RV    Recreational vehicle
SFHA  Special flood hazard area
S     Special use
TDM   Transportation demand management
TIA   Traffic impact analysis
TRC   Technical Review Committee
UDO   Unified development ordinance
USDA  United States Department of Agriculture
USGS  United States Geologic Survey
WSE   Water surface elevation
WTSS  Wireless telecommunication support structures
ZBA   Board of Adjustment
 
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section UDO Section
G.S. Section              UDO Section
1-49                      2.17.03
1-51                      2.17.03
Ch. 7A                    7.04
7A-227                    10.08.29
7A-228                    10.08.29
                          10.02.01,
14-4                      10.02.08,
                          10.06.03
15-27.2                   10.08.29
15A                       4.03.09,
                          7.05
Ch. 29                 6.01.03
39-32.1                   2.21
39-32.2                   2.21
39-32.3                   2.21
39-32.4                   2.21
42-29                     10.08.29
42-30                     10.08.29
44A-11.1(a)               10.08.10
45, Art. 2A               10.08.30
                          2.19,
                          2.21,
Ch. 47A                   2.22,
                          4.03.01,
                          11.02
Ch. 47C                   2.21
47-30                     2.21
62-133.8                  10.08.10
62-133.9                  10.08.10
Ch. 83A                   10.08.06,
                          10.08.13
Ch. 87, Art. 4            10.08.10
87-1(b)(2)                10.08.13
87-15.5(7)                10.08.10
87-21                     10.08.10
87-43                     10.08.10
Ch. 89C                   10.08.06
110-86(3)                 11.02
113A-52(6)                10.08.10
113A-57                   10.08.10
113A-71                   10.08.10
                          2.21,
113A-100 et seq.          2.22,
                          3.04.01
121-34 through 121-42     6.03
122C-3(11)b               11.02
Ch. 130A, Art. 9          11.02
130A-290(a)(6)            11.02
130A-290(a)(35)           11.02
130A-290(a)(36)           11.02
Ch. 131D, Art. 1          11.02
136-18(29)                3.02
136-32                    8.04.02,
                          8.05
136-102.6                 6.02.05,
                          11.02
136-136.1                 2.11
136-131.2                 2.11
136-143                   11.02
Ch. 143, Art. 9           10.08.10
Ch. 143, Art. 9C          10.08.10
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6  1.03,
                          7.01
143-139                   10.08.27
143-141                   10.08.14
143-143.9(6)              10.08.10
143-143.15                7.05
143-151.13(c)             10.08.03
143-215.51 et seq.        6.05.03
143-215.58                7.03,
                          7.04
143-755                   2.11
143-755(e)(1)             2.11
143-755(e)(2)             2.11
143-755(e)(3)             2.11
143B-437.09               10.08.19
Ch. 150B                  10.08.04
Ch. 153A, Art. 6          2.01,
                          7.01
153A-10                   11.02
153A-26                   1.14
153A-50                   1.01
153A-344.1                11.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          2.01,
                          7.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         10.08.25,
                          10.08.29
Ch. 160A, Art. 20, Part 1 10.08.02
160A-1(5)                 11.02
160A-61                   1.14
160A-75                   2.07.03
160A-79                   1.01
160A-175                  2.17.03,
                          10.06.04
160A-193                  10.02.08
160A-296                  10.02.08
160A-307                  3.02
160A-364                  3.08.07
160A-382                  1.03
160A-384                  3.08.04,
                          3.08.07
160A-503(10)              10.08.19
                          1.04,
                          1.13,
                          2.03.03,
Ch. 160D                  2.05,
                          2.07.01,
                          2.15,
                          4.03.23,
                          11.02
Ch. 160D(c)               10.08.08
                          1.03,
Ch. 160D, Art. 7          7.01,
                          11.02
Ch. 160D, Art. 8          1.03,
                          11.02
Ch. 160D, Art. 9          7.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10         2.11,
                          11.02
                          2.05,
Ch. 160D, Art. 11         2.15,
                          7.01
160D-102(28)              2.03.02
160D-103                  1.03
160D-104                  1.11
160D-106                  1.12
160D-108                  2.15
160D-108(c)               2.13.07
                          2.11,
160D-108.1                2.12,
                          2.15
160D-108.1(f)             2.13.07
160D-109(d)               2.03.03
160D-202                  2.07.02,
                          10.08.02
160D-301                  2.02.09
160D-301 et seq.          2.02.01
160D-302(b)               2.03.05
160D-306                  2.04
160D-401                  2.01
160D-402                  2.05
160D-402(c)               2.05
160D-403                  2.15
160D-403(b)               2.03.05
160D-403(f)               2.12
160D-404                  2.15
160D-404(a)               2.17.01
160D-404(b)               2.17.02
160D-404(c)(1)            2.17.03
                          2.03.05,
                          2.11,
                          2.13.08,
160D-405                  2.15,
                          2.17.01,
                          2.17.02,
                          10.08.14
160D-405(e)               2.15
                          2.03.02,
160D-406                  2.03.03,
                          10.08.23
                          2.07.03,
160D-501                  3.02,
                          11.02
                          2.07.01 
160D-601                  2.07.02,
                          10.08.19
                          2.07.02,
160D-602                  2.12,
                          2.13.05
160-602(b)                2.07.02,
                          2.07.03
160D-603                  2.07.02
160D-604                  2.02.09,
                          2.07.02
160D-605                  2.07.03
160D-605(a)               2.13.01
160D-701                  3.01
160D-702(b)               3.02
160D-703                  3.02,
                          3.03.03
160D-705                  2.07.02
160D-802                  2.06,
                          11.02
160D-804.1                2.13.06
160D-903                  4.03.23,
                          11.02
160D-947(e)               2.03.03
160D-1001                 2.13.01
160D-1002                 2.13.02
                          2.13.03,
160D-1003                 2.13.06,
                          2.13.08
160D-1004                 2.13.04
160D-1005                 2.13.03,
                          2.13.05
160D-1006                 2.13.06
160D-1006(e)              2.13.09
160D-1007                 2.13.07
160D-1008                 2.13.06,
                          2.13.08
160D-1009                 2.13.09
160D-1010                 2.13.10
160D-1011                 2.13.11
160D-1012                 2.13.12
160D-1101                 10.08.01
160D-1102                 10.08.02
160D-1103                 10.08.03,
                          10.08.05
160D-1104                 10.08.04
160D-1104(d)              10.08.09,
                          10.08.13
160D-1105                 10.08.02,
                          10.08.05
160D-1106                 10.08.06
160D-1107                 10.08.07
160D-1108                 10.08.08
160D-1109                 10.08.09
160D-1110                 10.08.10
160D-1111                 2.12,
                          10.08.11
160D-1112                 2.17.02,
                          10.08.12
160D-1113                 10.08.13
160D-1114                 2.15,
                          10.08.14
160D-1115                 2.12,
                          10.08.15
160D-1116                 10.08.16
160D-1117                 10.08.04,
                          10.08.17
160D-1118                 10.08.18
                          10.08.19,
160D-1119                 10.08.21,
                          10.08.22,
                          10.08.25
160D-1120                 10.08.20
160D-1121                 10.08.21
                          10.08.22 -
160D-1122                 10.08.24,
                          10.08.30
160D-1123                 2.17.01,
                          10.08.23
160D-1124                 10.08.24
160D-1125                 10.08.25
160D-1126                 10.08.26
160D-1127                 10.08.27
160D-1128                 10.08.28
160D-1129                 10.08.29,
                          10.08.30
160D-1130                 10.08.30
160D-1202                 10.08.30
160D-1202(2)              10.08.30
160D-1203                 10.08.30
160D-1203(6)              10.08.19
160D-1206                 2.17.01
160D-1207                 10.08.04,
                          10.08.17
160D-1208                 2.17.02,
                          10.08.29
160D-1402                 2.03.03,
                          2.03.05
160D-1402(c)              2.03.03,
                          2.03.05
160D-1402(j)              2.03.03
160D-1403.1               2.03.05,
                          2.11
160D-1403.2            2.03.05
160D-1405(d)              2.03.03
168-21(2)                 11.02
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         11.02
7-6-06   - -         1.12
–      3-5-1992    2.02.01 -
                     2.02.08
                     2.02.07,
                     2.02.08,
                     3.08.03,
–      12-2-2004   3.08.05,
                     3.08.07,
                     6.05,
                     11.02
–      3-3-2005    6.05,
                     11.02
–      6-1-2006    11.02
–      6-6-2006    2.02.02
–      7-6-2006    3.07
–      9-1-2008    4.03.05,
                     9.02
–      9-24-2008   4.03.09
                     7.01,
–      4-2-2009    7.03 -
                     7.06
–      5-7-2009    4.03.05
–      5-6-2010    11.02
                     1.01 -
                     1.07,
                     1.08 -
                     1.10,
                     2.02.01 -
                     2.02.09,
                     2.03.01,
                     3.03.01 -
                     3.03.03,
                     3.04 -
                     3.04.10,
                     3.05,
                     3.06,
                     3.07,
                     3.08.01 -
                     3.08.07,
                     3.09,
                     4.01,
                     4.02,
                     4.03,
                     4.03.01 -
                     4.03.19,
                     5.01 -
                     5.07,
                     6.01.01 -
                     6.01.08,
                     6.02.01 -
                     6.02.06,
                     6.03,
                     6.04.01 -
                     6.04.08,
–      11-2-2011   6.05,
                     6.05.02,
                     6.05.03,
                     7.01 -
                     7.06,
                     8.01,
                     8.02,
                     8.03.01,
                     8.04.01 -
                     8.04.03,
                     8.05 -
                     8.12,  Table 8-1,  
                     9.01.01 -
                     9.01.03,
                     9.02,
                     9.03,
                     10.01.01 -
                     10.01.03,
                     10.02.01 -
                     10.02.08,
                     10.02 -
                     10.04,
                     10.05.01 -
                     10.05.03,
                     10.06,
                     10.06.01 -
                     10.06.05,
                     10.07.01 -
                     10.07.04,
                     11.01.01 -
                     11.01.11,
                     11.02
2012-1   4-5-2012    4.03.22
2013-3   6-17-2013   4.03.11
2013-4   8-1-2013    9.03
2013-5   8-1-2013    4.02
2013-7   10-3-2013   2.03.05
                     4.02,
2014-4   6-5-2014    4.03.19,
                     4.03.20
2014-6   6-5-2014    4.02
                     8.01,
2014-7   7-9-2014    8.05,
                     8.08
2015-1   1-7-2015    8.04.02
2015-04  5-7-2015    4.03.22
2015-4   5-7-2015    11.02
2016-1   4-7-2016    8.04.02
                     7.01 -
–      11-3-2016   7.06,
                     11.02
2017-1   1-5-2017    4.02,
                     4.03.02
2017-2   2-1-2017    4.03.09
2017-3   5-3-2017    Adopting Ordinance
2017-4   5-3-2017    4.03.09
2018-02  5-3-2018    8.04.02,
                     8.09, Table 8-1
18-03    5-3-2018    6.01.03
18-04    - -         8.08
2020-01  6-4-2020    7.01 -
                     7.06
–      10-1-2020   7.04,
                     7.05
–      7-1-2021    4.02
–      7-1-2021    11.02
                     2.01,
                     2.02 -
                     2.02.09,
                     2.03 -
                     2.03.05,
                     2.04,
                     2.05, -
                     2.05.03,
                     2.06,
                     2.07 -
                     2.07.03,
                     2.08,
                     2.09,
                     2.10,
                     2.11,
–      7-1-2021    2.12,
                     2.13 -
                     2.13.12,
                     2.14 -
                     2.14.04,
                     2.15,
                     2.16,
                     2.17 -
                     2.17.03,
                     2.18,
                     2.19,
                     2.20,
                     2.21,
                     2.21.01,
                     2.22,
                     2.23
                     3.01,
                     3.02,
                     3.03 -
                     3.03.03,
                     3.04 -
–      7-1-2021    3.04.10,
                     3.05,
                     3.06,
                     3.07,
                     3.08 -
                     3.08.07,
                     3.09
                     1.01,
                     1.03,
–      7-1-2021    1.04,
                     1.07.01 -
                     1.16
                     4.02,
                     4.03.08,
–      7-1-2021    4.03.10,
                     4.03.23,
                     4.03.24
                     10.08 -
–      7-1-2021    10.08.30,
                     11.02
–      7-6-2022    4.02,
                     4.03.24
–      7-6-2022    4.03.11
–      9-7-2022    10.07.02
–      4-5-2023    4.02,
                     11.02
                     10.07.05,
–      10-4-2023   10.07.06,
                     11.02
-        1-8-2025    7.05
-        1-8-2025    4.03.09
                    
 
 
NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 6-5-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 2
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-5
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA,
ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, Sections 160A-77 and 160A-78 of the North Carolina General Statutes
require municiaplies to maintain a code of ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Town of North Topsail Beach has entered into a contract with
American Legal Publishing to properly organize and index the Town’s existing
and future ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Town Board to adopt the newly organized and
indexed code of ordinances.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF ALDERMEN OF THE TOWN OF NORTH
TOPSAIL BEACH, NORTH CAROLINA, this 2nd Day of June, 2015, that the ordinances
of the Town of North Topsail Beach as revised, amended, restated, codified and
compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall constitute the “Code of
Ordinances for the Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina”; and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that such Code of Ordinances as adopted shall
consist of the following titles: General Provisions, Administration, Licenses,
Taxation and Miscellaneous Business Regulation, Public Safety, Offenses and
Miscellaneous Provisions, Building Regulations, Fire Code Enforcement, Park and
Recreation, Animals, Vehicles and Boats, Solid Waste Management and Community
Antenna, Television System; and
   BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that all prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects
treated in the Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in
whole or in part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
This ordinance shall be effective upon its adoption.
Adopted this the 2nd day of June, 2015.
   APPROVED:
   Daniel Tuman /s/
   Daniel Tuman
   Mayor
(Seal)
   ATTEST:
   Carin Z. Faulkner /s/
   Carin Z. Faulkner
   Assistance Town Manager/Town Clerk
CHARTER
Section
Chapter I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
Sec. 1.1   Incorporation and corporate powers
Chapter II. Corporate Boundaries
   
Sec. 2.1   Town boundary
Chapter III. Governing Body
   
Sec. 3.1   Structure of governing body; number of members
   
Sec. 3.2   Manner of electing board
   
Sec. 3.3   Term of office of board of aldermen members; four-year terms
   
Sec. 3.4   Selection of mayor; term of office
   
Sec. 3.5   Appointment of initial board of aldermen and mayor
Chapter IV. Elections
   
Sec. 4.1   Conduct of town elections
Chapter V. Administration
   
Sec. 5.1   Council-manager plan
CHAPTER I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
SEC. 1.1 INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   The inhabitants of the Town of North Topsail Beach are a body corporate and
politic under the name “Town of North Topsail Beach.” Under that name they have
all the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities conferred and
imposed upon towns by the General Law of North Carolina.
CHAPTER II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SEC. 2.1 TOWN BOUNDARY.
   Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the Town of North
Topsail Beach are as follows:
   Beginning at a point near the northern limit of Surf City and in the
Intracoastal Waterway having N.C. Grid coordinates of North 260,907 East
2,445,050; thence along the Intracoastal Waterway North 47 degrees 04 minutes
23 seconds East 6015.6 feet; thence North 65 degrees 26 minutes 28 seconds East
44,583.2 feet; thence North 26 degrees 49 minutes 19 seconds East 7278.0 feet;
thence North 08 degrees 08 minutes 23 seconds East 5021.5 feet; thence North 58
degrees 53 minutes 00 seconds East 7008.4 feet to a point in New River Inlet;
thence leaving said Intracoastal Waterway and along New River Inlet South 00
degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East 12,621.8 feet to a point in the Atlantic
Ocean 1200 feet offshore; thence running parallel to the shoreline South 58
degrees 52 minutes 39 seconds West 59,111.2 feet to a point in the Atlantic
Ocean 700 feet offshore and lying near the northern limit of Surf City; thence
along the Surf City line North 38 degrees 31 minutes 30 seconds West 6,978.8
feet to the point and place of beginning; containing 8,900 acres more or less
and being all of Topsail Island which lies north of the current city limits of
Surf City.
CHAPTER III. GOVERNING BODY
SEC. 3.1 STRUCTURE OF GOVERNING BODY; NUMBER OF MEMBERS.
   The governing body of the Town of North Topsail Beach is the Board of
Aldermen, which has five (5) members and the mayor.
SEC. 3.2 MANNER OF ELECTING BOARD.
   The qualified voters of the entire town elect the members of the Board of
Aldermen.
SEC. 3.3 TERM OF OFFICE OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN MEMBERS; FOUR-YEAR TERMS.
   At the regular municipal election to be held in 1990, the three (3)
candidates who receive the highest number of votes shall be elected for four-
year terms, while the two (2) candidates who receive the next highest number of
votes shall be elected for two-year terms. Beginning at the regular municipal
election to be held in 1991, and every four (4) years thereafter, two (2)
members of the board of aldermen shall be elected to serve for four-year terms.
Beginning at the regular municipal election to be held in 1993, and every four
(4) years thereafter, three (3) members of the board of aldermen shall be
elected to serve for four-year terms.
SEC. 3.4 SELECTION OF MAYOR; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The qualified voters of the entire town elect the mayor. A mayor shall be
elected in 1989 and every two (2) years thereafter for a two-year term.
SEC. 3.5 APPOINTMENT OF INITIAL BOARD OF ALDERMEN AND MAYOR.
   Weldon Hall, William Keister, Nathan McDaniels, Leland Newsome and Charlotte
Tippett are hereby appointed members of the board of aldermen to serve until
their successors are elected in the 1989 election. Rodney Knowles is appointed
mayor to serve until his successor is elected in the 1989 election.
CHAPTER IV. ELECTIONS
SEC. 4.1 CONDUCT OF TOWN ELECTIONS.
   The Board of aldermen shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis and the
results determined by the plurality method as provided by G.S. 163-292.
CHAPTER V. ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 5.1 COUNCIL-MANAGER PLAN.
   The Town of North Topsail Beach operates under the council-manager plan as
provided by part 2 of article 7 of chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-1   How code designated and cited
   
1-2   General definitions and rules of construction
   
1-3   Catchlines of sections; effect of history notes, references in code
   
1-4   Repeal, expiration and revival of ordinances
   
1-5   General penalty; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
   
1-6   Severability
   
1-7   Supplementation of code
   
1-8   Amendments
   
1-9   Provisions considered continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-10   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights and the like
   
1-11   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
1-12   Town seal
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The provisions in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and
be designated the North Topsail Beach Town Code and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Codification of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-77
§ 1-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (a)   Rules of construction. Words and phrases are to be construed according
to the context and the approved usage of the language; technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in law are to be construed according to such meaning.
      (1)   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed by this code or by order of court, the day of the act, event, default
or publication after which the designated period of time begins to run is not
to be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless
it is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or a legal
holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday.
      (2)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department of the town to do some act or make certain inspections, it
is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate,
delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the
required inspection unless the terms of the provision designate otherwise.
      (3)   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine
and neuter.
      (4)   Interpretation. This code contains the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions
upon the subject matter than other more general provisions of this code, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
      (5)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      (6)   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the
plural includes the singular number.
      (7)   Officers, employees, boards, and the like. The title of any
officer, employee, board, commission and the like, used herein shall be
construed as if the words “of the Town of North Topsail Beach” followed it.
      (8)   Statute references. Whenever reference is made, for example, to
G.S. § 160A-272, it shall be construed to refer to General Statutes of North
Carolina, § 160A-272, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
      (9)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future
as well as the past and present.
      (10)   Title of office. The title of any office is to be construed to
include the words “of the Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina.”
      (11)   Bond. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   (b)   Defined terms. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina.
      CODE. The North Topsail Beach Town Code as designated in §
1-1.
      COUNTY. Onslow County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      KEEPER, PROPRIETOR. Includes any person, firm, association, corporation,
club and partnership, whether acting by himself or herself or by a servant,
agent or employee.
      MAY. Is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
      MAY NOT. Has a prohibitory effect.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUST. Is to be construed as being mandatory and not permissive.
      OATH. Is to be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which,
by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the
words “swear” and “sworn” are equivalent to the words “affirm” and “affirmed.”
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. The term means that whenever certain hours are
named in this code, they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as
may be in current use in this town.
      OR, AND.  OR may be read AND if the sense requires it. AND may be read OR
if the sense requires it.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, the holder of
the title in fee simple and every mortgage of record of the whole or part of
such building or land.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property except real
property.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal PROPERTY.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of
habitation and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the
intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another,
the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her RESIDENCE.
      SHALL. Is to be construed as being mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or other public place and the
approaches thereto within the town when any part thereof is open to use of the
public and established for purposes of vehicular traffic.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, includes any person
who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
      TOWN. The Town of North Topsail Beach, North Carolina.
      WRITING, WRITTEN. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise specified.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 1-3 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS; EFFECT OF HISTORY NOTES, REFERENCES IN CODE.
   (a)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as
any part of such sections; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (b)   The history or source notes appearing in the parentheses after
sections in this code are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely
intended to indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross-
references and state law references which appear after sections or subsections
of this code or which otherwise appear in footnote form are provided for the
convenience of the user of this code and have no legal effect.
   (c)   All references to chapters, articles or sections are to the chapters,
articles and sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
§ 1-4 REPEAL, EXPIRATION AND REVIVAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (b)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
§ 1-5 GENERAL PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code or any other town ordinance shall subject the offender to the
remedies hereinafter provided; except, that where the General Statutes of the
state provide specific civil remedies for violations of provisions of this code
adopted pursuant to such statutes, such remedies available to the town for
enforcement of this code shall be in addition to the remedies hereinafter
stated; provided, that no criminal penalties shall be applicable unless
hereinafter stated in this section as being applicable to specific chapters or
provisions of this code.
   (b)   Any person who violates any section of the town ordinances shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both.
   (c)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this code or any other town ordinance may be enforced
by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (d)   In addition to any civil or criminal penalties set out in this
section, any provision of this code or any other town ordinance that makes
unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice shall
have jurisdiction to issue such orders. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of
justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and rule 65 in particular.
   (e)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the cause.
      (1)   An order of abatement may direct that:
         a.   Buildings or other structures on the property be closed,
demolished or removed;
         b.   Fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from
buildings on the property;
         c.   Grass and weeds be cut;
         d.   Improvements or repairs be made; or
         e.   Any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property
into compliance with this code or such ordinance.
      (2)   If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of abatement shall
not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (f)   The provisions of this code and any other town ordinances may be
enforced by one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed
by this section; except, that any provision the violation of which incurs a
civil penalty shall not be enforced by criminal penalties.
   (g)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or any other town ordinance shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (h)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the town,
the violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall specify whether the
enforcement shall be pursuant to the civil penalty or criminal penal provisions
of this section.
   (i)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of this code, the
penalty for which is a civil penalty, the town shall cause a warning citation
to be issued to the violator, setting out the nature of the violation, the
section violated, the date of the violation and an order to immediately cease
the violation or, if the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which
an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, stating a
reasonable period of time in which the violation must be abated. The warning
citation shall specify that a second citation shall incur a civil penalty.
   (j)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the appropriate official of the town and either
served directly on the violator or his or her duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, in person or posted in the United States
mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of the
violator as contained in the records of the town, or obtained from the violator
at the time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed
to have been served upon the mailing of such citation. The citation shall
direct the violator to appear before the Town Treasurer, located in the Town
Hall, within 15 days of the date of the citation or alternatively to pay the
citation by mail. The violation for which the citation is issued must have been
corrected by the time the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations shall
be issued. Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until the
prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
   (k)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a civil
action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state general
court of justice for the collection of the penalty.
Statutory reference:
   Penalties and other remedies for ordinance violations, see G.S. §§ 14-4,
160A-175 and 160A-389
§ 1-6 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable; and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code, since the same would have been enacted without the incorporation in this
code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section.
§ 1-7 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (a)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of Aldermen.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Board of Aldermen or adopted by initiative
and referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the code, and shall also include all amendments to the Charter
during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete; and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive
changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement,
insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For
example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” “this subsection” and the
like, as the case may be, or to “sections ________ to ________” (inserting
section numbers to indicate the sections of the code which embody the
substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 1-8 AMENDMENTS.
   Any and all additions and amendments to this code, when passed in such form
as to indicate the intention of the Board of Aldermen to make the same a part
thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in the code, so that reference to
the North Topsail Beach Town Code shall be understood and intended to include
such additions and amendments.
§ 1-9 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same as ordinances
existing at the time of adoption of this code, shall be considered as a
continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-10 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code affects any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this
code.
   (b)   The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or
permitting any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in
violation of any ordinance of the town in effect on the date of adoption of
this code.
§ 1-11 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance:
   (a)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or any evidence of the town’s
indebtedness;
   (b)   Fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
   (c)   Granting a franchise;
   (d)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in the town;
   (e)   Providing for an appropriation or tax;
   (f)   Which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or limited term;
   (g)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (h)   Rezoning specific property;
   (i)   Dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
   (j)   Describing or extending the boundaries of the town;
   (k)   That is temporary, although general in effect;
   (l)   That is special, although permanent in effect;
   (m)   The purpose of which has been accomplished; or
   (n)   That amends the Charter.
§ 1-12 TOWN SEAL.
   The seal shall be the common seal of the town, and the Town Clerk shall have
custody of the seal, and the seal shall be carefully preserved and kept at all
times at the Town Hall.
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article I. In General
   
2-1   Fiscal year
   
2-2   Procedure for disposal of property owned by the town
   2-3 – 2-9   Reserved
Article II. Board of Aldermen
Division 1. Generally
   
2-10   Vesting and exercise of corporate powers
   
2-11   Composition, election and terms of Mayor/Board of Aldermen
   
2-12   Date of induction into office
   
2-13   Regular and special meetings
   
2-14   Compensation
   
2-15   Resignation of members
   
2-16   Vacancies
   2-17 – 2-19   Reserved
Division 2. Powers and Duties
   
2-20   Legislative powers, improvements, financial powers, assessments
   
2-21   Contracts
   
2-22   Audit
   
2-23   Occupational licenses and taxes
   
2-24   Condemnation of land
   
2-25   Passage of ordinances
   
2-26   Giving of notice
   2-27 – 2-29   Reserved
Article III. Officers and Employees
Division 1. Generally
   
2-30   Oath of office
   
2-31   Absence from office
   
2-32   Private use of town’s motor vehicles
   
2-33   When bond to be given
   2-34 – 2-39   Reserved
Division 2. Town Clerk
   
2-40   Duties generally
   2-41 – 2-49   Reserved
Division 3. Town Attorney
   
2-50   Appointment
   
2-51   Duties generally
   2-52 – 2-59   Reserved
Division 4. Town Manager
   
2-60   Appointment; duties
   2-61 – 2-69   Reserved
Article IV. Elections
   
2-70   Nonpartisan basis
   
2-71   Date
   
2-72   Determination of results
   
2-73   Swearing in
   2-74 – 2-79   Reserved
Article V. Smoking: General Policies and Procedures
   
2-80   Purpose
   
2-81   Applicability
   
2-82   Departments affected
   
2-83   Definitions
   
2-84   Prohibited
   
2-85   Permitted
   
2-86   Violators of the article
Article VI.  State of Emergency
   
2-90   Purpose
   
2-91   Territorial applicability
   
2-92   Penalty for violation
   
2-93   Determination of state of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
2-94   Declaration imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
2-95   Curfew
   
2-96   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverage
   
2-97   Restrictions on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
2-98   Restrictions on access to areas
   
2-99   Effect of declaration
   
2-100   Amendments of declaration
   
2-101   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
2-102   Separate and superseding declarations
   
2-103   Absence or disability of Mayor
   
2-104   Emergency operations plan
Charter reference:
   Administration, see Charter §
5.1
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 2-1 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the town shall begin on July 1 and shall end on June 30
of each year.
§ 2-2 PROCEDURE FOR DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY OWNED BY THE TOWN.
   (a)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (b)   The Town Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. Such sale
may be public or private, provided that items are duly advertised and there is
a minimum waiting period.
   (c)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of Aldermen.
   (d)   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom exchanged and the amount of
money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (e)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266.
   (f)   This section shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992; Ord. passed 11-10-1998)
§§ 2-3 — 2-9 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. BOARD OF ALDERMEN
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-10 VESTING AND EXERCISE OF CORPORATE POWERS.
   (a)   The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in and exercised by
the Town Manager and Board of Aldermen, as provided in this chapter; and such
officers and agents as are provided for in this chapter, subject to such
limitations as may be imposed by this chapter; and the executive and
administrative powers, authority and duties are distributed as set forth in
this chapter. The government of the town and general management and control of
all its affairs shall be vested in such Board, except that the Town Manager
shall have the authority specified in this chapter.
   (b)   G.S. Ch. 160A entitled “Cities and Towns,” and amendments thereto,
shall be deemed a part of the Charter of the town, and shall apply to this
town, except where the same is inconsistent with the Charter or inapplicable to
this town.
Charter reference:
   Governing body,
Ch. III
§ 2-11 COMPOSITION, ELECTION AND TERMS OF MAYOR/BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen shall consist of six members: five Aldermen and
a Mayor.
   (b)   Beginning at the regular municipal election to be held in 1991, and
every four years thereafter, two members of the Board of Aldermen shall be
elected to serve for four-year terms. Beginning at the regular municipal
election to be held in 1993, and every four years thereafter, three members of
the Board of Aldermen shall be elected to serve for four-year terms.
   (c)   The qualified voters of the entire town elect the Mayor. The Mayor
shall be elected every two years for a two-year term.
§ 2-12 DATE OF INDUCTION INTO OFFICE.
   All members of the Board of Aldermen shall be sworn in at the December
meeting after the election in November and shall take office immediately upon
taking the oath.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal election procedure, see G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
§ 2-13 REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen shall fix suitable times for its regular
meetings which shall be at least once monthly.
   (b)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem or any two members of the Board of
Aldermen may at any time call a special meeting, by executing a written notice
stating the time and place of holding such meeting, stating the subjects to be
considered, and signed by the person calling the same, to be delivered in hand
to each member or left at his or her usual dwelling place at least 48 hours
before the time of such meeting. Only those items of business specified in the
notice may be transacted at a special meeting, unless all members are present
or have signed a written waiver of notice. In addition to the procedures set
out in this subsection (b) or the town Charter, a person calling a special
meeting of the Board of Aldermen shall comply with the notice requirements of
G.S. Ch. 143, Article 33B.
   (c)   A majority of the actual membership of the Board of Aldermen plus the
Mayor, excluding vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A member who has
withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by majority vote of the
remaining members present shall be counted as present for purposes of
determining whether or not a quorum is present.
Statutory reference:
   “Council” interchangeable with “Board of Aldermen,” see G.S. § 160A-1
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Regular and special meetings of Council, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 2-14 COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Aldermen may fix its own compensation and the compensation of
the Mayor and any other elected officers of the town by adoption of the annual
budget ordinance, but the salary of an elected officer other than a member of
the Board of Aldermen may not be reduced during the then- current term of
office unless he or she agrees thereto.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 12-1-2011)
§ 2-15 RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   No member of the Board of Aldermen shall be allowed to tender a resignation
of his or her office, except in writing.
§ 2-16 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the Board of Aldermen shall be filled by appointment of the
Board as provided in G.S. § 160A-63.
§§ 2-17 – 2-19 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. POWERS AND DUTIES
§ 2-20 LEGISLATIVE POWERS, IMPROVEMENTS, FINANCIAL POWERS, ASSESSMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen has and shall exercise all legislative powers,
functions and duties conferred upon the town or its officers. It shall make all
orders for the doing of work or the making or construction of any improvements,
bridges or buildings. It shall levy all taxes, apportion and appropriate all
funds and through its Finance Officer audit and allow all bills and accounts,
payrolls and claims and order payment thereof. It shall make all assessments
for the cost of street improvements, sidewalks, sewers and other work,
improvements or repairs which may be specifically assessed.
§ 2-21 CONTRACTS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall make or authorize the making of contracts; and
no contract shall bind or be obligatory upon the town unless the same is either
made by ordinance or resolution adopted by the Board, or is reduced to writing
and approved by the Board or expressly authorized by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the Board.
§ 2-22 AUDIT.
   The Board of Aldermen shall cause to be audited the books and accounts of
all departments and of officers and employees who do or may receive or disburse
money.
§ 2-23 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES AND TAXES.
   The Board of Aldermen shall have full powers to license, tax and regulate
trades, occupations and professions.
§ 2-24 CONDEMNATION OF LAND.
   (a)   The Board of Aldermen shall have full powers to condemn any land that
may be required for the purpose of erecting any building or buildings, for Town
Hall, market houses, firehouses, graded and other public schools, parks,
playgrounds and for any other public purpose, whether like those enumerated
above or not. The procedure in such condemnation proceedings shall be the same
as is provided in this section for the condemnation of lands for streets.
   (b)   The Board of Aldermen shall have full powers to pass ordinances or
resolutions for the condemnation of property for the purpose of widening,
altering, changing or extending any of the streets of the town and for opening
new streets and for the construction and maintenance of drains, sewers and
combination drains and sewers, and for any other public purpose provided for in
this code.
§ 2-25 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   Every ordinance shall be in force and shall become law from the
adoption by the Board of Aldermen unless otherwise ordered.
   (b)   Two readings on separate and different dates shall not be required,
except franchise ordinances as required by the General Statutes.
   (c)   A true copy of each ordinance passed by the Board of Aldermen shall be
filed and indexed in an ordinance book separate and apart from the Board’s
minute book until such ordinance shall have been codified.
Statutory reference:
   Filing of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-78
   Passage of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 2-26 GIVING OF NOTICE.
   The giving of any notice required by any provision of this code or other
ordinance of the town shall be done in conformity with any applicable state
law.
§§ 2-27 – 2-29 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 2-30 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every person elected or appointed to an office, from whom an oath before a
proper officer is required to be made and subscribed, shall make and subscribe
such oath before entering upon the duties of such office.
Statutory reference:
   Oaths of office generally, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 2-31 ABSENCE FROM OFFICE.
   No officer or department head of the town shall at any time leave his or her
duties or be absent from his or her place or office without the consent of the
Town Manager, Mayor or Board of Aldermen.
§ 2-32 PRIVATE USE OF TOWN’S MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer, employee or agent of the town having
charge of any motor-driven vehicle to use or permit the use of the same other
than in the actual service of the town. The unwarranted use of any vehicle
shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with §
1-5.
Statutory reference:
   Private use of publicly owned vehicles, see G.S. §§ 14-247 and 14-252
§ 2-33 WHEN BOND TO BE GIVEN.
   No person appointed or elected to an office, from whom a bond is required
and the amount thereof fixed at the time of his or her election or appointment,
shall perform the duties of his or her office until such bond, satisfactory to
the Council, has been given.
Statutory reference:
   Bonds for municipal officials, see G.S. § 159-20
§§ 2-34 – 2-39 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. TOWN CLERK
§ 2-40 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Town Clerk shall be required to attend all meetings of the Board of
Aldermen. He or she shall take, transcribe and have custody of the minutes and
perform all other duties prescribed by this code, other ordinances of the town
and the Board of Aldermen.
Statutory reference:
   Town Clerk, see G.S. §§ 160A-171 et seq.
§§ 2-41 – 2-49 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 2-50 APPOINTMENT.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Aldermen after its election and
qualification or as soon thereafter as possible, the Board shall appoint a Town
Attorney.
Statutory reference:
   Town Attorney, G.S. § 160A-173
§ 2-51 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to:
   (a)   Prosecute for and defend suits against the town;
   (b)   Advise the Mayor, Board of Aldermen or any other officer of the town
in regard to matters connected with the town’s business;
   (c)   Attend meetings of the Board of Aldermen when requested to do so by
them;
   (d)   Draw such deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as may
be required for the proper conduct of the town’s business;
   (e)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises;
   (f)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction; and
   (g)   Perform such additional duties as the Board of Aldermen may require
pursuant to the Charter, other special acts applicable to the town or the
General Statutes.
§§ 2-52 – 2-59 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. TOWN MANAGER
§ 2-60 APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   (a)   Appointment. The Board of Aldermen shall appoint a Town Manager to
serve at its pleasure. The Town Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis
of his or her executive and administrative qualifications. He or she need not
be a resident of the town or state at the time of his or her appointment.
   (b)   Powers and duties. The Town Manager shall be the chief administrator
of the town. He or she shall be responsible to the Board of Aldermen for
administering all municipal affairs placed in his or her charge by them, and
shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   He or she shall appoint and suspend or remove all town officers and
employees not elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the Town Attorney, in accordance with
such general personnel rules, regulations, policies or ordinances as the Board
of Aldermen may adopt.
      (2)   He or she shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices and agencies of the town, subject to the general direction
and control of the Board of Aldermen, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Board of Aldermen and
recommend any measures that he or she deems expedient.
      (4)   He or she shall see that all laws of the state, the town Charter,
and the ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Board of Aldermen are
faithfully executed within the town.
      (5)   He or she shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
program to the Board of Aldermen.
      (6)   He or she shall annually submit to the Board of Aldermen and make
available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the town as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He or she shall make any other reports that the Board of Aldermen
may require concerning the operations of town departments, offices and agencies
subject to his or her direction and control.
      (8)   He or she shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
Statutory reference:
   Town Manager, see G.S. § 160A-148
§§ 2-61 – 2-69 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTIONS
§ 2-70 NONPARTISAN BASIS.
   All elected officials of the town shall be elected on a nonpartisan basis.
§ 2-71 DATE.
   The members of the Board of Aldermen shall be elected on Tuesday after the
first Monday in November in odd-numbered years or such other day as shall be
set from time to time by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 163-279(a)(1)
§ 2-72 DETERMINATION OF RESULTS.
   The officers who shall occupy the elective offices of the town shall be
determined in accordance with the following rules pursuant to G.S. § 163-292.
   (a)   When more than five persons are seeking election to the five seats of
the Board of Aldermen, those five candidates receiving the highest number of
votes shall be declared elected.
   (b)   If each of two or more candidates receiving the highest number of
votes shall receive the same number of votes, then the Board of Elections shall
determine the winner by lot.
§ 2-73 SWEARING IN.
   All elected officials shall be sworn in by the County’s Clerk of Court or
such other official as may be designated from time to time by the Clerk of the
Court at the December meeting of the Board of Aldermen after the November
election. These officials shall take office immediately upon taking the oath.
§§ 2-74 – 2-79 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. SMOKING: GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 2-80 PURPOSE.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to establish a policy to provide
employees and visitors with an example of preventative health behavior, to
maintain as clean and healthful an environment as possible and to reduce the
discomfort of employees and visitors whose tolerance with tobacco smoke or
products is limited.
   (b)   Smoking and the use of smokeless tobacco products has been shown to
affect the health and comfort of nonsmokers who come into contact with
secondhand smoke or sidestream smoke.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-81 APPLICABILITY.
   This article applies to all employees and visitors who utilize the office
areas, meeting rooms, vehicles and other municipal owned facilities located in
the town.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-82 DEPARTMENTS AFFECTED.
   All departments are affected.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-83 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEES. Those actually employed by the town, either permanent, temporary,
part-time or volunteer.
   PUBLIC. Visitors and others not considered town employees.
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Products such as snuff and chewing tobacco.
   SMOKING. Carrying or possessing any lighted tobacco product including
cigars, cigarettes and pipes.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-84 PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Smoking and the use of any smokeless tobacco products in any form is
prohibited in the town buildings and facilities.
   (b)   Smoking and the use of any smokeless tobacco products in any form is
prohibited in any vehicle owned or leased by the town.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-85 PERMITTED.
   (a)   Smoking is permitted:
      (1)   Outside town buildings in designated smoking areas and away from
main entrances utilized by the public;
      (2)   During outside work assignments on or off city property; and
      (3)   Prior to and after work, and during authorized breaks and lunch.
   (b)   Examples:
      (1)   Firefighters who work 24-hour shifts may smoke outside the fire
station before work and after work, and during designated breaks and lunch; and
      (2)   Maintenance workers may smoke while working outside, and while
conducting clean up.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 2-86 VIOLATORS OF THE ARTICLE.
   (a)   Repeated violations of this article or any other ordinance will be
considered in performance evaluations and may subject the employee to
disciplinary action.
   (b)   Any employee who makes a formal complaint regarding violations of this
article or any other ordinance shall not be subject to disciplinary action or
termination for filing the complaint.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
ARTICLE VI. STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 2-90 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide an avenue whereby the Mayor of the
Town of North Topsail Beach can take action, on an emergency basis, to:
   (a)   Minimize the possible suffering of citizens or the potential for
property damage by limiting access to certain areas.
   (b)   Limit the movement of objects or people during certain periods.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-91 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-92 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a declaration
authorized by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished as
provided by §
1-5 of the code.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-93 DETERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety of property or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (b)   In the event of an existing or threatened emergency which has the
potential to endanger the lives, safety, health or welfare of the people within
the town or any part thereof, or threatens damage to or destruction of
property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a state of
emergency declaration declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of
people within the town, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions
hereinafter authorized. The Mayor will provide notification to all Aldermen and
the Town Manager as soon as possible after such a declaration has been issued.
   (c)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to establish and activate
an emergency management organization to respond to the existence of such a
state of emergency in order to more effectively protect the lives and property
of people within the town.
   (d)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by declaration
the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
aldermen, law enforcement officers, firemen, public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-94 DECLARATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (a)   The Mayor, by declaration, may impose the prohibitions and
restrictions specified in §§
2-94 through §
2-98 in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may impose as many of
the specified prohibitions and restrictions as are determined to be necessary,
because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public order and
services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor shall recite his
findings in the declaration.
   (b)   The declaration shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the declaration to those affected by it,
including the media and emergency communications systems. The Mayor shall
retain a text of the declaration and furnish upon request certified copies of
it for use as evidence. The Mayor shall immediately notify the county Director
of Emergency Services, Town Aldermen, and the Town Manager of the issuance of
the declaration.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-95 CURFEW.
   (a)   The declaration may impose a curfew prohibiting, in certain areas and
during certain periods, the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The declaration shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemptions the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The declaration shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (b)   Unless otherwise specified in the declaration, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by additional
declaration, removes the curfew.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-96 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE.
   The declaration may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor including beer and wine, other than on one's own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchase of any
intoxicating liquor within the area of the town described in the declaration.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of intoxicating liquor by
employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by anyone else within
the geographical area described.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-97 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (a)   The declaration may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one's own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance, except lawfully possessed firearms and ammunition. The Mayor may
exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people whose possession,
transfer or transportation of certain dangerous weapons or substances is
necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety or welfare. The
declaration shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which
each is exempted.
   (b)   For the purposes of this section, the term "dangerous weapon or
substance" means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device, explosive,
gasoline or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a
threat of serious bodily injury or destruction of property.
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so destructively used.
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (c)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or such part thereof as designated in the declaration.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-98 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (a)   The declaration may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (b)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his subordinates when directed and specified in the
declaration to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street,
highway or location within the town if that restriction or denial of access or
use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the
emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-99 EFFECT OF DECLARATION.
   The declaration issued under this article may prohibit or restrict all or
any of the following:
   (a)   Movements of people in public places.
   (b)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate.
   (c)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the declaration.
   (d)   The declaration issued under this article may direct a voluntary or
mandatory evacuation of all or part of the town.
   (e)   Rescue or any other emergency services may not be provided dependent
upon the nature of the conditions during the time period when the state of
emergency declaration is in effect.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-100 AMENDMENTS OF DECLARATION.
   The Mayor may amend or extend the declaration issued under this article from
time to time, making such modifications as would have been authorized to
include in the original declaration.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-101 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by additional declaration, remove the prohibition and
restrictions when it has been determined that the emergency no longer requires
them, when emergency conditions have abated or when directed to do so by the
Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-102 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING DECLARATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized by this
article in separate declaration, and may amend any declaration by means of
superseding declaration.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-103 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
have and exercise all of the powers given the Mayor by this article.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 2-104 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   The Director of Emergency Management shall maintain an emergency operations
plan and will update the plan, if needed, based on the experience of the town.
The EOP will be presented to the Board of Aldermen as revisions are made.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 2-7-2019)
CHAPTER 3: RESERVED
CHAPTER 4: LICENSES, TAXATION AND
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Article I. In General
   
4-1   Selling goods on public property
   
4-2   Solicitor’s permit required
   4-3   Wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages on Sunday mornings
   4-4 – 4-10   Reserved
Article II. Privilege License Tax
   
4-11   Definitions
   
4-12   Levy generally
   
4-13   Continuing authority of Board of Aldermen
   
4-14   Collecting official
   
4-15   Required
   
4-16   Exemptions
   
4-17   Multiple businesses
   
4-18   Separate places of business
   
4-19   Application – Generally
   
4-20   Same – False statements
   
4-21   Investigations
   
4-22   Issuance conditional
   
4-23   Form and contents
   
4-24   Copy to be filed
   
4-25   Effect of discontinuance of business
   
4-26   Refunds
   
4-27   Duration
   
4-28   Change in place of business
   
4-29   Transfer
   
4-30   Display
   
4-31   Injunctive relief
   
4-32   Collection of unpaid tax
   
4-33   Revocation
   
4-34   Schedule of taxes
   
4-35   Beach vendors
   
4-36   Food trucks
   4-37 – 4-39   Reserved
Article III. Adult and Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
4-40   Authority and jurisdiction
   
4-41   Purpose
   
4-42   Abrogation
   
4-43   Definitions
   
4-44   Scope and provisions of article
   
4-45   Interpretation of terms and definitions
   
4-46   Severability
   
4-47   Enforcement
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate business, trades and the like, see G.S. §
160A-194
   Soliciting on streets, see G.S. § 20-175
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 4-1 SELLING GOODS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose for sale, offer to sell,
barter or exchange or sell, barter or exchange any goods, wares or merchandise
within the street and highway rights-of-way of the town, or on the ocean
beaches of the town (except as specified in § 4-35, Beach Vendors), or on
parking lots (and other areas open to the public) which are contiguous to the
state highway and town street rights-of-way. Commercial sales shall be allowed
in the town park building upon approval of the Town Manager and the Board of
Aldermen. Said approval shall be in writing and signed by the Town Manager and
the individual(s) or entities authorized to carry out said sales.
   (b)   No license issued pursuant to ordinance shall authorize or allow a
commercial business activity prohibited by the town’s ordinances.
   (c)   Anyone violating this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of
$500. No such civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation has been notified of the violation. Each day of the continuing
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   (d)   This section shall not apply to the activities of any employee of the
town within the scope of his or her employment or any department of the town
acting within the scope of its responsibility, and this section shall not apply
to any organization providing services pursuant to a written authorization with
the town for public purposes that the town is authorized by law to provide.
   (e)   This section shall not apply to any town-approved festivals, charity
events, art or cultural events, farmers’ market or any other similar event for
which the town has issued a special event permit.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-4-2010; Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-6-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate peddlers, itinerant merchants and the like,
see G.S. § 160A-178
   Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. §§ 14-4, 160A-75
§ 4-2 SOLICITOR’S PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Solicitors shall write or come into the office of the Town Clerk to
request permits.
   (b)   Any company/individual requesting a soliciting permit needs to provide
the following:
      (1)   Credentials of the company or organization;
      (2)   Name and photo ID of each person coming into the area; and
      (3)   Length of time such person will be in the area.
   (c)   The soliciting permit shall be issued by the Town Clerk.
   (d)   Notification, with proper ID information, shall be provided to the
Police Department.
   (e)   Each solicitor must carry an ID and a copy of the soliciting permit,
to be provided to the police or town citizen upon request.
   (f)   Notification shall be given to the solicitor, that if a complaint is
received against such organization or individual, that the soliciting permit
may be revoked.
   (g)   There are no fees for a solicitor’s license, for those who only take
orders. If they take orders and deliver goods on location, they are peddlers
and are subject to a license fee as such.
   (h)   A complete file shall be kept on all solicitors requesting to come
into the area.
(Ord. passed 5-7-1992)
§ 4-3 WINE, FORTIFIED WINE, AND MIXED BEVERAGES ON SUNDAY MORNINGS.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the town’s corporate limits at any premises
licensed pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2017-8, passed 8-2-2017)
§ 4-4 – 4-10 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAX
§ 4-11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BEACH. An area adjacent to the ocean extending landward from the mean low
water line to a point where either the growth of vegetation occurs or a
distinct change in slope or elevation alters the configuration of the landform,
whichever is farther landward, or riparian owners have specifically and legally
restricted access above the mean high water line. This definition is intended
to describe those shorefront areas customarily freely used by the public.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this article to a license tax.
   ENGAGED or ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHIN THIS TOWN. A person is ENGAGED IN
BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN when he or she engages in business activity of any
type, either as owner or operator of such business, by maintaining a business
location within the town; by soliciting business within the town; or by picking
up or delivering merchandise or performing services within the town.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with the first day of July and ending with
the thirtieth day of June next following.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months beginning on January 1, April 1, July
1 or October 1.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990; Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-4-2010)
§ 4-12 LEVY GENERALLY.
   In addition to the tax on property as otherwise provided for, and under the
power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall be levied
and collected annually, or oftener where provided for, a privilege license tax
on trades, professions, agencies, business operations, exhibitions, circuses,
carnivals and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the
sections and schedules of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-13 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF ALDERMEN.
   Nothing contained in the provisions of this article shall be construed to
prevent the Board of Aldermen from imposing, from time to time as it may see
fit, such license taxes as are not specifically defined or included in this
article, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of any special license
tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the businesses or acts licensed, when
not in conflict with state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-14 COLLECTING OFFICIAL.
   The Town Clerk is hereby designated as the proper town official to collect
license taxes and to issue privilege licenses.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-15 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section, the opening of a place of business, or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on such
business; and each day that such person shall engage in or carry on such
business without a required license shall be construed to be a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 4-16 EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   Any person engaged in business within the town for religious,
educational or charitable purposes shall be exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this article.
   (b)   Any blind person engaging in business within the town shall be exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this article, to the extent
provided by G.S. § 105-164.13(20).
   (c)   Any person serving in any branch of the armed forces of the United
States or in the merchant marine and desiring to engage in business within the
town, shall be exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
article during the period of such service, to the extent provided by G.S. §
105-164.13(17).
   (d)   In addition to the above, certain businesses are exempted from
privilege license taxes by state law. A list of such exempted businesses is on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-17 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   If a person is engaged in more than one business made subject to a license
tax under this article, such person shall pay the license tax prescribed in the
tax schedules of this article for each such business, even if the businesses
are conducted at the same location.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-18 SEPARATE PLACES OF BUSINESS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided by state law or by the tax schedules of this
article, if a person engages in a business in two or more separate places, a
separate license tax shall be required for each such place of business.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, if a person engages in the same business
at two or more locations within the town, the person is liable for only one
license tax if the locations:
      (1)   Are contiguous;
      (2)   Communicate with and open directly into each other; and
      (3)   Are operated as a unit.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-19 APPLICATION – GENERALLY.
   (a)   Every person desiring to obtain a license for the privilege of
engaging in a business within the town shall make application therefor in
writing to the Town Clerk.
   (b)   The application, to be made on a form provided by the Town Clerk,
shall contain all the following information:
      (1)   Name and nature of the business for which the license is sought;
      (2)   The address where the business is conducted and a mailing address
for the business, if different. If the application is for a new business or for
a new location of an existing business, the application shall be accompanied by
a certificate of occupancy obtained from the Inspections Department certifying
that the location meets all building code requirements for the intended use;
      (3)   The name and address of the person filling out the application, and
his or her relationship to the business;
      (4)   The gross receipts of the business for the most recently completed
tax year, if applicable; and
      (5)   Any other information which the Town Clerk determines to be
necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-20 SAME – FALSE STATEMENTS.
   Any person who willfully makes a false statement on a license application
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990) Penalty, see § 1-5
§ 4-21 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Town Clerk shall make any investigation necessary to determine the tax
liability of a person engaged in business within the town. If necessary, the
Town Clerk is authorized to enter upon the premises of any such business during
normal business hours for the purpose of determining whether this article has
been complied with.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-22 ISSUANCE CONDITIONAL.
   All licenses provided for by this article are granted subject to the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-23 FORM AND CONTENTS.
   Every license issued under the provisions of this article shall show on the
face thereof the name of the licensee, the nature of the business, the location
thereof, if it is to be operated at a fixed place, the time of which issued and
the amount of license tax and penalty, if any, paid. Any license requiring the
approval of the Board of Aldermen or of any officer of the town shall show such
approval on its face; and it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk before issuing
any such license to see that the required approval is properly endorsed on the
application for the license.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-24 COPY TO BE FILED.
   The Town Clerk shall keep an exact copy of every license issued under the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-25 EFFECT OF DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund or any part thereof be
made in any case where the licensee discontinued his or her business before the
end of the period for which such license was issued.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-26 REFUNDS.
   A taxpayer may obtain a release or refund of a tax if he or she can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board of Aldermen that the tax was
illegal, levied for illegal purpose or imposed through clerical error. If the
tax has been paid, the taxpayer’s request for a refund must be made within
three years after the tax became due or within six months after the date of
payment, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-27 DURATION.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and schedules
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so remain for
each subsequent year to come until amended or changed by the Board of Aldermen.
All of the licenses provided for in this article, except beer and wine, shall
expire on June 30. Unless otherwise specifically provided, any licensee
applying for and obtaining a license after January 1 shall be required to pay
half of the annual tax prescribed.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-28 CHANGE IN PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   If a person who has obtained a license for a business taxed under this
article desires to move from one business location to another within the town,
the license which has been issued shall be valid for the remainder of the
license year at this new location, and no additional tax need be paid. Within a
reasonable time after the change in location, however, such person shall inform
the Town Clerk of the change in address.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-29 TRANSFER.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this article shall be a personal
privilege and shall not be transferable.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-30 DISPLAY.
   Every license shall be kept prominently displayed at the place of business
of the licensee named in the license; or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, such license shall be kept the same wherever such business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 4-31 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The town may seek an injunction against any person engaging in business in
violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-32 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAX.
   (a)   If a person begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this article without payment of the required privilege license tax, the Town
Clerk may use either of the following methods to collect the unpaid tax:
      (1)   The remedy of levy and sale or attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (2)   The remedy of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer in accordance with G.S. § 105-109(d).
   (b)   Any person who begins or continues to engage in a business taxed under
this article without payment of such tax is liable for an additional tax of 5%
of the original tax due for each 30 days or portion thereof that the tax is
delinquent.
   (c)   The payment of any penalty or unpaid tax under the provisions of this
section shall not bar or otherwise preclude the imposition of a fine or
imprisonment for the violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-33 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by
the Board of Aldermen upon the finding by the Board that the licensee has
willfully or persistently violated any section of this article or other
ordinance of the town or laws of the state, or that the licensee is conducting
his or her business or obtained his or her license hereunder in a fraudulent or
unlawful manner, or is abusing the privileges granted by his or her license, or
that the licensee has a criminal record from this or another state which would
warrant the Board of Aldermen in finding that the licensee is undesirable. Any
such licensee shall be entitled to a hearing upon reasonable notice before his
or her license shall be revoked, and the findings of the Board of Aldermen as a
result of such hearing shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990)
§ 4-34 SCHEDULE OF TAXES.
   The schedule of taxes is included in the annual budget of the town.
(Ord. passed 3-15-1990; Ord. passed 6-6-1992; Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-4-2010)
§ 4-35 BEACH VENDORS.
   The town shall allow beach vendors with strict limitations and conditions.
   (a)   The town shall limit the number of licenses to ten.
   (b)   Each licensee is permitted to operate up to five locations or sales/
service stands or carts.
   (c)   Priority in allocating the licenses shall be given to licensees who
demonstrate that they have sufficient means to comply with this chapter.
Consideration will be given to licensees from prior years provided said prior
licensees have not violated the provisions of this chapter; all remaining
unallocated licenses will be awarded first come first served.
   (d)   Beach vendors may operate from April 1 to March 31, and from dawn to
dusk every day of the week.
   (e)   Beach vendors may be mobile or stationary, and may operate on the
beach, as defined; however, no stands, carts or merchandise, or any other
equipment or supplies for a beach vendor will be left upon the beach overnight.
   (f)   Sales/service stands or carts, including merchandise to be sold or
rented will be limited to 20 square feet of space occupied on the beach per
license. Also, no sign may be more than six square feet, and no stand or cart
may be more than eight feet in height. Beach vendor carts may display a maximum
of two signs, not exceeding six square feet in area for each sign.
   (g)   No hawking, music, bells or noisemaking of any type to attract
business will be allowed.
   (h)   No motorized conveyances will be allowed on the beach.
   (i)   No sales or rental of motorized vehicles, boats or other motorized
devices will be allowed.
   (j)   No sales of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, fireworks,
firearms, ammunition or products requiring an ABC license or Health Department
license will be allowed. Also, no open flames are allowed.
   (k)   Beach vendors shall be required to carry liability insurance with a
minimum coverage of $1,000,000.
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 3-4-2010; Ord. 2014-3, passed 5-1-2014) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 4-36 FOOD TRUCKS.
   (a)   Findings and intent.
      (1)   Allowing food truck businesses to operate in North Topsail Beach
promotes diversification of the town's economy and employment opportunities.
      (2)   Food trucks support the incubation and growth of entrepreneurial/
start-up businesses.
      (3)   North Carolina G.S. § 160A-174 grants towns the power to define,
prohibit, regulate, acts, omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health,
safety or welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the town through
the creation of ordinances.
      (4)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-178, the town has the express statutory
authority to regulate the activities of peddlers and other itinerant
salespeople.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FOOD TRUCK. A readily movable trailer or motorized wheeled vehicle,
currently registered with the N.C. Division of Motor Vehicles, designed and
equipped to serve food.
      REGULATORY FEE. A fee assessed to cover the cost of regulating a business
activity that is assessed to the particular business being regulated.
   (c)   Permitting.
      (1)   A food truck permit shall be required prior to the operation of a
food truck. A $500 regulatory fee will be assessed to cover the costs
associated with regulation of food trucks. All food truck operators shall
obtain an annual permit from the Town Manager or their designee, unless
otherwise exempted in this section.
      (2)   A food truck permit expires on December 31 of the year upon which
the permit was issued. This permit shall be posted in a visible location on the
food truck.
      (3)   Food truck operators shall have the signed approval of the property
owner for each location at which the food truck operates. This approval must be
made available with the permit application.
      (4)   Food trucks shall provide documentation of approval from the North
Carolina Department of Health. A valid health permit must be maintained for the
duration of the food truck permit and shall be placed in a conspicuous location
for public inspection.
      (5)   A food truck permit does not include peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor as defined by the town code.
      (6)   No permit issued shall authorize a food truck to operate on or from
a public street.
   (d)   Regulations. Food trucks shall be allowed in all nonresidential
districts with the following restrictions:
      (1)   The food truck shall be positioned at least 100 feet from the
customer entrance of an existing restaurant during its hours of operation,
unless the food truck vendor provides documentation that the restaurant owner
supports a closer proximity.
      (2)   A trash receptacle shall be provided for customers. All associated
equipment must be contained within vehicle. Trash receptacles must be within
three feet of the food truck.
      (3)   Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited. All plumbing
and electrical connections shall be in accordance with the state building code.
      (4)   Food trucks shall only operate on private property, unless they are
part of a town approved special event.
      (5)   No food truck shall conduct business on any public right-of-way,
sidewalk, upon any public road in the town or on any property owned by the town
except for town approved special events.
      (6)   No liquid, grease or solid wastes may be discharged from the food
truck. Absolutely no waste may be disposed of in tree pits, storm drains, the
sanitary sewer system or public streets.
      (7)   Food trucks must have the following fire extinguisher on board
during hours of operation: minimum Class 2A, 10B, and C rated extinguisher. If
food preparation involves deep frying, a Class K fire extinguisher must also be
on the truck. All National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards shall
be met to include fire extinguishers and fire suppression hood systems shall be
maintained.
      (8)   A food truck vendor shall not operate the food truck as a drive-in
window.
      (9)   Lighting shall be such that minimizes the glare on roadways and
surrounding properties.
      (10)   No signage shall be allowed other than signs permanently attached
to the motor vehicle.
      (11)   The noise level from the food truck shall comply with the
municipality's noise ordinance.
      (12)   No vendor shall remain on-site at one property for more than 12
consecutive hours, with exception of a holiday weekend if holiday falls on
Friday or Monday.
      (13)   Food trucks shall be positioned at least three feet away from any
fire hydrants, any Fire Department connection, utility box or vault. The food
truck shall not locate within any area of the lot that impedes, endangers, or
interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. A food truck shall not impede
ingress and egress from driveway entrances, handicapped parking spaces and
ramps, building entrances and exits.
   (e)   Suspension and revocation of permit.
      (1)   The permit issued for the food truck business may be revoked if the
vendor violates any of the provisions contained in this article.
      (2)   The Town Manager may revoke a permit if he or she determines that
the food truck vendor's operations are causing parking, traffic congestion, or
litter problems either on or off the property where the use is located or that
such use is otherwise creating a danger to the public health or safety.
      (3)   The Town Manager reserves the right to temporarily suspend food
truck permits during times of special events in the downtown area.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 5-2-2019)
§§ 4-37 – 4-39 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ADULT AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 4-40 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this article are adopted by the town under the authority
granted by the General Assembly of the state, in G.S. §§ 160A-174 and 160A-181.
From and after the effective date hereof, this article shall apply to every
building, lot, tract or parcel of land within the town limits and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-41 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare
of the citizenry of the town, this article is adopted by the town to regulate
adult and sexually oriented businesses, as hereby defined, located in the town.
Further, the regulations of this article have been made with reasonable
consideration among other things, as to the character of the town and its areas
and their peculiar suitability for these businesses.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-42 ABROGATION.
   These regulations shall not repeal, impair, abrogate or interfere with any
existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, setback requirements, rules,
definitions, regulations previously adopted pursuant to law in an established
zoning district in the town. However, where these regulations impose greater
restrictions, the provisions of these regulations shall govern.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-43 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more motion picture projectors, slide projectors or similar machines for
viewing by five or fewer persons each are used to show films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined hereinafter).
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has a substantial portion (over 25%
of total retail space) of its stock-in-trade and offers for rent or sale, for
any consideration, any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual representations
that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any business activity, club or other establishment which
permits its employees, members, patrons or guests on its premises to exhibit
any specified anatomical areas before any other person or persons.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment where, for any forms of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other similar
photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion (25%)
of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment
characterized by activities featuring the exposure of specified anatomical
areas or by specified sexual activities.
   MASSAGE. Any manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping, by hand or mechanical device, except by a licensed
physician or certified and state licensed therapist.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios or massage parlors.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business activity, club or other
establishment, within which the exhibition, showing, rental or sale of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material depicting,
describing or exhibiting specified anatomical areas or relating to specified
sexual activities is permitted. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall include, but
are not limited to: adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult theaters, massage parlors and/or adult video rental/sale stores
as defined by this article.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts.
   TOTAL RETAIL SPACE. Any space within the structure that is used for the
direct sale of merchandise to the public and storage areas for those items.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-44 SCOPE AND PROVISIONS OF ARTICLE.
   (a)   Adult business.
      (1)   An ADULT BUSINESS as defined in §
4-43.
      (2)   No adult business shall be permitted in any building:
         a.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a residence or dwelling;
         b.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in
which an adult business or a sexually oriented business is located;
         c.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a church, synagogue or other house of worship;
         d.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a public school or as a state licensed day care center; or
         e.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel
on which a public playground, public swimming pool or public park is located.
   (b)   Sexually oriented business.
      (1)   A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS as defined in §
4-43.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted in any building:
         a.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a residence or dwelling;
         b.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in
which an adult business or a sexually oriented business is located;
         c.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a church, synagogue or other house of worship;
         d.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building used
as a public school or as a state licensed day care center; or
         e.   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel
on which a public playground, public swimming pool or public park is located.
   (c)   Nonconforming adult business and sexually oriented adult business. Any
adult business or sexually oriented business lawfully operating on April 1,
1993, that is in violation of this article shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
Any use which is determined to be nonconforming by application of the
provisions of this section shall be permitted to continue for a period not to
exceed two years. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 180 days or more, it may
not be reestablished. If two or more adult businesses or sexually oriented
adult businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location the business which was first established and continually
operating at its present location shall be considered the conforming use and
the later established business(es) shall be considered nonconforming. An adult
business or sexually oriented adult business lawfully operating as a conforming
use shall not be rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a church,
house of worship, day care center, school, playground, public swimming pool or
public park within 1,000 feet of the adult business or sexually oriented
business.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993) Penalty, see §
4-47
§ 4-45 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (b)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used in
the plural include the singular.
   (c)   The word “person” includes an owner, firm, joint venture, association,
organization, partnership, corporation, trust and company, as well as an
individual.
   (d)   The word “owner” when applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by entirety
of the whole or part of such building or land.
   (e)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel.”
   (f)   The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
   (g)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (h)   The words “located,” “used,” or “occupied” as applied to any land or
building shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or
designed to be located, used or occupied.”
   (i)   The word “residence” shall mean the place adopted by a person as his
or her place of habitation and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or
she has the intention of returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps
at another, the place where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her
residence.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-46 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this article are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
article is declared unconstitutional or invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs
and sections of this article, since the same would have been enacted by the
town without the incorporation of this article of any such unconstitutional or
invalid phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
§ 4-47 ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not
more than six months.
   (b)   This article may be enforced against any person who is in violation by
an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   This article may be enforced against any person who is in violation by
injunction and order of abatement as provided for by law.
   (d)   Each day’s continuing violation of this article by any person is a
separate and distinct offense.
   (e)   As used herein, PERSON shall include:
      (1)   The agent in charge of the building, premises, structures or
facility;
      (2)   The owner of the building, premises, structure or facility when
such owner knew or reasonably should have known the nature of the business
located therein;
      (3)   The owner of the business; and/or
      (4)   The manager of the business.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993)
CHAPTER 5: RESERVED
CHAPTER 6: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Article I. In General
   
6-1   Definitions
   
6-2   Obedience to chapter
   
6-3   Obedience to police
   
6-4   Application of chapter – Drivers of governmental vehicles
   
6-5   Same – Persons propelling pushcarts, riding bicycles
   
6-6   Same – Authorized emergency vehicles
   
6-7   Same – Certain private property
   
6-8   Authority of police in special cases
   
6-9   Boarding moving vehicles and the like
   
6-10   Entering vehicles without permission
   
6-11   Keeping body wholly within vehicle
   
6-12   Front seat passengers restricted
   
6-13   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
6-14   Riding other than in places intended for passengers
   
6-15   Vehicles with lugs and the like prohibited
   
6-16   Damaging public property
   
6-17   Public urination
   
6-18   Glass containers
   
6-19   Operation of motor vehicles on private property
   
6-20   Discharge of firearms and dangerous instruments; hunting and trapping
   6-21 – 6-30   Reserved
Article II. Operation
   
6-31   Moving cars from parked positions
   
6-32   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
6-33   Driving through barricaded streets
   
6-34   Driving over fire hose
   
6-35   Driving on sidewalks
   
6-36   Obstructing intersections prohibited
   
6-37   Manner of making left turns
   
6-38   Driving through funeral processions
   
6-39   Limitations on backing
   
6-40   Limitations on turning around
   6-41 – 6-50   Reserved
Article III. Traffic-Control Devices
   
6-51   Designation of traffic zones, through streets and the like, erection and
installation of devices
   
6-52   Ratification of existing devices
   
6-53   Duty to obey
   
6-54   Necessity of signs
   
6-55   Moving or damaging devices
   
6-56   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
6-57   Traffic-control signal legend
   
6-58   Flashing signals
   
6-59   Manner of entering through street
   
6-60   Stop intersections
   
6-61   Yield right-of-way intersections
   6-62 – 6-70   Reserved
Article IV. Speed Limitations
   
6-71   Reasonable, prudent rule
   
6-72   Residential streets
   
6-73   Variation of maximum speed limits
   
6-74   Speed limit on SR 1568 (New River Inlet Road)
   
6-75   Reserved
   
6-76   Reserved
   
6-77   Speed limit on roads in Cape Island subdivision
   
6-78   Reserved
   
6-79   Speed limit on town-owned side streets
   6-80   Reserved
Article V. Stopping, Standing and Parking
Division 1. Generally
   
6-81   Emerging from alleys or private driveways
   
6-82   Stopping in streets prohibited; exceptions
   
6-83   Lights on parked vehicles
   
6-84   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
6-85   Prohibited at certain places
   
6-86   Public conveyances prohibited except in designated zones
   
6-87   Moving vehicles into prohibited area
   
6-88   Residential areas – Duration
   
6-89   Same – Commercial motor vehicles
   
6-90   Continuous parking period defined
   
6-91   Impoundment – Authorized
   
6-92   Same – Redemption
   
6-93   Same – Effect of failure to redeem
   6-94 – 6-100   Reserved
Division 2. Prohibited, Restricted on Certain Streets
   
6-101   Designation of no parking areas
   
6-102   Parking in limited parking zone
   
6-103   No parking area designated
   
6-104   Prohibitions in town parking lots
   6-105 – 6-110   Reserved
Article VI. Bicycles
   
6-111   Observance of traffic regulations
   
6-112   Impounding
   
6-113   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
6-114   Lamps and reflectors
   6-115 – 6-119   Reserved
Article VII. Noise Control
   
6-120   Established
   
6-121   General prohibition
   
6-122   Exception
   
6-123   Blowing horns
   
6-124   Sirens
   
6-125   Playing radios and the like
   
6-126   Pets
   
6-127   Use of vehicles
   
6-128   Discharge of exhaust
   
6-129   Compressed air devices
   
6-130   Building operations
   
6-131   Quiet zones
   
6-132   Loading and unloading operations
   
6-133   Bells or gongs
   
6-134   Peddlers and the like
   
6-135   Noises to attract attention
   
6-136   Reserved
   
6-137   Statement of purpose
   
6-138   Types of noises exempted
   
6-139   Allowable noise levels within the town
   6-140 – 6-145   Reserved
Article VIII. Wrecker/Towing Services and Impoundment
   
6-146   Definitions
   
6-147   Administrative responsibility
   
6-148   Wrecker service application/agreement
   
6-149   Duties and requirements of wrecker tow services
   
6-150   Availability and storage requirements; location and towing to be within
city limits
   
6-151   Liability; insurance
   
6-152   Wrecker equipment
   
6-153   Inspections
   
6-154   Regulations governing wrecker operations
   
6-155   Rate schedule and responsibility for charges
   
6-156   Duties and responsibilities of police officers – Wrecker and tow
services; rotation list
   
6-157   Same – Impoundments
   
6-158   Duties and responsibilities of wrecker firms providing towing for
impoundment purposes
   
6-159   Appeal
   
6-160   Private towing
Article IX. Enforcement
   
6-161   Civil penalty for traffic violations
   
6-162   Ticketing of vehicles
Article X. Alarm Control Systems
   
6-163   Definitions
   
6-164   Notice of false alarm
   
6-165   Corrective action and penalty
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles generally, see G.S. Ch. 20
   Powers of local authorities, see G.S. § 20-169
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, ambulances and other vehicles designated or authorized by the Chief
of Police.
   BLOCK. The length of the portion of any street which is located between two
street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is occupied by buildings
which are in use for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway which lies between the prolongation of
the lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection. Any portion of a
roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings
on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include bicycles with helper motors rated less than 50 cubic
centimeter engine displacement which produce only ordinary pedaling speeds up
to a maximum of 20 mph on a level surface.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or an official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violation of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every ROAD or DRIVEWAY not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle which is engaged in the business of
transporting persons for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on such highway, for a distance of 300
feet or more, is mainly occupied by residential dwellings but also by dwellings
or buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which has been improved and designed for,
or which is ordinarily used for, vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, which area is either protected or plainly marked
at all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines exclusively intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING. When required, means complete cessation of movement. When
prohibited, means any STOPPING of a vehicle, except when conflict with other
traffic is imminent, or when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire area between lateral property lines which is
open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular
traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC SIGNS. Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be
permanently or temporarily placed or erected or installed at certain places and
which purport to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or
warning; the presence of such signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in or upon which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided that, for the
purpose of this chapter, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall also be deemed a
VEHICLE.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-2 OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-3 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of a
police officer.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-4 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER – DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENTAL VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States Government, this state,
county or town. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter or the state laws.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-5 SAME – PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person propelling any pushcart, or riding a bicycle or an animal, upon
a roadway, also every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter which are applicable to any driver of any
vehicle, except for those provisions of this chapter which by their very nature
can have no application.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-6 SAME – AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except
as follows.
   (b)   Unless otherwise directed by a police officer, a driver, when
operating such vehicle in any emergency, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction or movement, or turning
in specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (c)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the
safety or property of others.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-7 SAME – CERTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to private property which is
expressly or implicitly held open to the general public for the purpose of
vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-8 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when it is necessary to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct
traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-9 BOARDING MOVING VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall board, or alight from, any public conveyance or other
vehicle while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-10 ENTERING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-11 KEEPING BODY WHOLLY WITHIN VEHICLE.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give such signals
as are by law required; and no person shall hang on to any vehicle whatsoever.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-12 FRONT SEAT PASSENGERS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver’s seat.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-13 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller
skates, skateboard or any other toy vehicle shall not attach the same, or
himself or herself, to any public conveyance, or moving vehicle, upon any
roadway.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-14 RIDING OTHER THAN IN PLACES INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle not designated or
intended for the use of passengers, or on a bicycle or motorcycle except on the
seat provided for that purpose. This provision shall not apply to an employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty nor to persons riding within truck
bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-15 VEHICLES WITH LUGS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive over any hard-surfaced asphalt paved street any
vehicle with sharp blades, discs or spikes that will drag on the pavement, or
any traction engine with caterpillar wheels, or any heavy piece of machinery
that will in any way damage or injure the paving.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-16 DAMAGING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or wantonly remove, deface,
alter, destroy, injure or damage personal or real property owned by, leased to
or otherwise under the custody and control of the town. The offender shall also
be subject to a civil debt of $500 per day in addition to other penalties. No
such civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation has been notified of the violation. Each day of the continuing
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
Penalty, see §
1-5
Statutory reference:
   Damaging town property, see G.S. § 160A-174
   Property damage generally, see G.S. §§ 14-127, 14-128
§ 6-17 PUBLIC URINATION.
   No person shall urinate in the town except in facilities (including mobile
units) designed and constructed for the disposal and containment or elimination
of human waste.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-18 GLASS CONTAINERS.
   The possession of glass beverage or glass food containers on town-owned or
town-operated beaches within the town, or on beach access areas, the town-
operated bathhouse or town parking areas is unlawful. Any person in possession
of a glass food or glass beverage container within or on such areas shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-19 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the town except upon the
public or private highways, streets, roads, ways, alleys, bridges and other
designated public accessways without the consent of the property owner whose
property is being traversed.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-20 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND DANGEROUS INSTRUMENTS; HUNTING AND TRAPPING.
   (a)   Discharge of firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person to
needlessly fire any rifle, gun or revolver within the town limits.
   (b)   Discharging dangerous instruments. It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge any air rifle, pellet gun, BB gun, slingshot, bow and arrow or any
other similar weapon within the town except in an area marked and designated as
a target area by the town police.
   (c)   Hunting/trapping. Hunting and trapping is prohibited within the town
limits.
   (d)   Violation. Violation of any of the provisions of this section by any
firm, person or corporation shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or imprisonment for
not more than six months, or both. Each and every violation shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1993; Ord. 19-01, passed 2-7-2019)
§§ 6-21 – 6-30 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. OPERATION
§ 6-31 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed; or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-32 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
traffic lanes shall be driven, as nearly as practical, entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved out of such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-33 DRIVING THROUGH BARRICADED STREETS.
   No person shall drive any vehicle of any kind into or upon any alley or
street when such street or alley has been barricaded by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-34 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department without the
consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-35 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-36 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No driver shall move his or her vehicle across an intersection, or a marked
crosswalk, unless he or she knows that there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate his or her vehicle without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, although a traffic-
control signal may be indicating his or her right to proceed.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-37 MANNER OF MAKING LEFT TURNS.
   In making left turns at street intersections, all traffic when approaching
an intersection shall keep close to the center line of the street; and the left
turn shall then be made beyond the center of the intersection as may, or may
not, be indicated by buttons, markers or other directing signs, and shall
proceed in the new direction along the right-hand lane, except at certain
intersections, which may be expressly designated by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-38 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle may be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances, and only if the same are
responding to calls.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-39 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into any intersection, or over a
crosswalk, nor shall he or she back it otherwise unless such movement can be
made in safety, and ample warning has been given by hand and horn or other
signals.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-40 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle and proceed in the opposite direction on
any town street.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§§ 6-41 – 6-50 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 6-51 DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC ZONES, THROUGH STREETS AND THE LIKE, ERECTION AND
INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   (a)   The Police Department shall have the power to designate, lay off and
indicate, when authorized by ordinance, by appropriate signs and markings, park
spaces and zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones, reserved parking
zones, zones in which vehicles shall be parked at an angle to the curb, loading
zones, safety zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other than the
above, crosswalks, truck routes, through streets, stop streets and
intersections, yield right-of-way intersections, one-way streets, streets to be
laned for traffic, play streets, bus stops, taxicab stands and passenger
loading zones. It shall also have the power to designate and indicate, when
authorized by ordinance, intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by
traffic signals, intersections at which left turns, right turns or U-turns
shall be prohibited, and intersections at which markers, buttons or other
indications shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning at such intersections.
   (b)   Whenever any designation is made in accord with this section, the
Police Department shall erect and install such signs, markings, lines, signals
and other traffic-control devices as may be necessary to clearly indicate such
designation and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of the restriction,
limitation or prohibition resulting from such designation.
   (c)   All designations made in accordance with this section shall be clearly
shown and indicated on the official traffic-control device and regulation of
parking signs, markings and other devices schedule on file in the office of the
Traffic Division.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-52 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, devices and markings placed or erected
in the town prior to the adoption of the code and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and
declared to be official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-control
devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-53 DUTY TO OBEY.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official traffic-
control device placed in accordance with this chapter, subject to certain
exceptions which are granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in §
6-6, unless either are otherwise directed by a police officer.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-54 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter which provides for signs shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
such official sign was not in proper position or was not sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not
stipulate signs, such section shall be effective without signs being placed to
give notice thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-55 MOVING OR DAMAGING DEVICES.
   No person shall move, deface or otherwise damage any sign, signal or other
traffic-control device placed upon the streets of the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-56 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway an
unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be, is an
imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-57 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution” or “stop,” or exhibiting differently colored lights,
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used; and such
terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
   (a)   Green alone or “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk unless otherwise directed by pedestrian-
control signals.
   (b)   Yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection; but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (c)   Red alone or “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone; however, except where prohibited by an appropriate sign, vehicular
traffic, after coming to a full stop, may enter such intersection to make a
right turn if such movement can be made in safety.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian-control signal.
   (d)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue movement in the direction indicated by such
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-58 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (a)   Flashing red, stop signal. When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked; and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules of safety and noninterference
with other traffic.
   (b)   Flashing yellow, caution signal. When a yellow lens is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-59 MANNER OF ENTERING THROUGH STREET.
   When stop signs are placed upon highways which intersect a through street,
the driver shall bring his or her vehicle to a stop before entering the
intersection; and he or she shall not proceed into, or across the through
street until he or she has first determined that no conflict with traffic will
ensue.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-60 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When signs are placed at stop intersections, every driver of a vehicle shall
stop before entering the intersection; and he or she shall not proceed into or
across the through street until he or she has first determined that no conflict
with traffic will ensue.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-61 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY INTERSECTIONS.
   When yield right-of-way signs are placed, erected or installed upon streets,
roads or highways intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto, or at
the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a motor vehicle shall, in
obedience to such signs, slow down and yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
movement on the main-traveled or through street which is approaching so as to
arrive at the intersection at approximately the same time as the vehicle
entering the main-traveled or through street.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§§ 6-62 – 6-70 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. SPEED LIMITATIONS
§ 6-71 REASONABLE, PRUDENT RULE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon any
street or highway in the town at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent
under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-72 RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   Except as may otherwise be permitted under the provisions of this article,
it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle upon any street
or highway in a residential section of this town at a greater speed limit than
as set forth by state law.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-73 VARIATION OF MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   The Board of Aldermen may alter the maximum speed as established in this
article on any street or portion thereof which is not a part of the state
highway system and which is not maintained by the State Highway Commission in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-141(f). No such alteration of the
speed limit shall become or remain effective unless signs have been
conspicuously placed giving notice of such speed limit for such street.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-74 SPEED LIMIT ON SR 1568 (NEW RIVER INLET ROAD).
   (a)   Purpose. Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-296 and 20-141(f), this section is
enacted to provide for the enforcement of speed regulations on streets, roads
and highways which are a part of the state highway system within the corporate
limits of the town, and to provide for the general welfare of the citizens of
the town through the uniform and orderly regulation of its streets and
thoroughfares.
   (b)   Speed limits. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
vehicle on SR 1568 (New River Inlet Road) from the intersection with Highway
210 to a point 3.92 miles northeast of that intersection at speeds in excess of
45 mph.
   (c)   Penalty. Violation of this section shall be punishable as set out in
G.S. Ch. 20, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 10-24-1996)
§ 6-75 RESERVED.
§ 6-76 RESERVED.
§ 6-77 SPEED LIMIT ON ROADS IN CAPE ISLAND SUBDIVISION.
   The speed limit on roads within Cape Island subdivision is decreased to 15
mph.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 10-2-2014; Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 6-78 RESERVED.
§ 6-79 SPEED LIMIT ON TOWN-OWNED SIDE STREETS.
   The speed limit on all town-owned side streets to include but not be limited
to those listed below is 20 mph:
Utopia Lane      Bird Lane       Seashore Drive Sandlin Street Makepeace Street
Haven Drive      Reeves Street   24th Avenue    23rd Avenue    22nd Avenue
21st Avenue      18th Avenue     17th Avenue    16th Avenue    15th Avenue
14th Avenue      13th Avenue     12th Avenue    11th Avenue    10th Avenue
9th Avenue       8th Avenue      7th Avenue     6th Avenue     5th Avenue
4th Avenue       3rd Avenue      2nd Avenue     Osprey Drive   Osprey Circle
Mason Court      Sea Dunes Court Goldsboro Lane Bay Court      Marina Way
Tradewinds Drive Bay Circle      Bayview Drive  Grant Drive    Porposie Place
Bottlenose Drive Port Drive      Coastal Drive  Oyster Lane    Gysgt DW Boatman
                                                               Drive
Topsail Road (SR River Road      River Drive    Carver Street  Chestnut Street
1583)
Gray Street      Green Street    Ocean Drive    Sea Gull Lane  Sand Piper Drive
Wicker Street                                                
 
(Ord. 2015-8, passed 8-6-2015; Ord. passed 5-1-2024)
§ 6-80 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-81 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall sound his or her horn while emerging from an
alley, driveway or building; shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to
reaching the sidewalk, or the sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway;
and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on such roadway.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-82 STOPPING IN STREETS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering of
railway gates, by being given countermanding traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency; in all cases covered
by these exceptions such vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if it can be
avoided.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-83 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Parking lights upon a vehicle, when such is lawfully parked at night on a
street, in accordance with this article, shall not be required except where
specifically demanded by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-84 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purposes of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, excepting repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons;
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has
been disconnected;
      (5)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another; or
      (6)   For the primary purpose of advertising.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place upon or in any
area used or maintained for park purposes in the town a motor vehicle for the
purpose of waxing, cleaning or repairing the vehicle. It shall be unlawful for
any person to wax, clean or repair a motor vehicle in or upon any area in the
town used or maintained by the town for park purposes. Any person found guilty
of violating this subsection (b) may be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
not more than six months. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-85 PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN PLACES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when conflict
with other traffic is imminent or when so directed by a police officer or
traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within an intersection;
      (3)   On a crosswalk;
      (4)   Grade crossing approaches. No vehicle shall park on either side of
any street leading to a grade crossing, within 50 feet of the closest rail;
provided, that where existing permanent structures are located closer than 50
feet, parking may be permitted in front of such structures unless otherwise
prohibited and if such parking does not block the view in either direction of
the approach of a locomotive or train;
      (5)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction if such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (6)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
      (7)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel or
any public building;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing or parking at
the edge or curb of a street;
      (9)   Within ten feet of any fire plug or hydrant;
      (10)   Within 15 feet of any intersection; or
      (11)   In front of any driveway.
   (b)   The Town Manager shall have the authority to mark off and designate
areas within the town as “no parking” areas and shall be authorized to erect,
have the State Department of Motor Vehicles to erect or contract with a public
or private entity to erect such signs or notices as are necessary to identify
such “no parking” areas. The Town Manager shall also be allowed to restrict the
time of enforcement of said “no parking” areas. These “no parking” regulations
within the town are hereby adopted pursuant to authority granted by the General
Statutes and shall apply to all incorporated areas within the boundaries of the
town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-86 PUBLIC CONVEYANCES PROHIBITED EXCEPT IN DESIGNATED ZONES.
   Public conveyances shall not stop, stand or park in any street except within
zones specifically designated by the Board of Aldermen to be used for such
vehicles.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-87 MOVING VEHICLES INTO PROHIBITED AREA.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from a curb to make such distance unlawful.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-88 RESIDENTIAL AREAS – DURATION.
   In residential areas of this town there shall be a limit of seven days’
parking by the owner, lessee or tenant of the premises, or of a visitor in the
premises of the owner, lessee or tenant. Parking of motor vehicles of anyone
other than the persons mentioned above in residential areas shall be limited to
24 hours. It shall be the duty and responsibility of any person cited for
overtime parking in accordance with this subsection to prove to the
satisfaction of the court hearing the case that he or she falls within one of
the classes of persons mentioned herein.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-89 SAME – COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   There shall be no parking or storage of commercial motor vehicles greater
than five tons in residential areas, public parking areas and public streets,
except for the purposes of loading and unloading of fuel, oil, goods, wares or
merchandise.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991; Ord. 2018-1, passed 1-11-2018) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-90 CONTINUOUS PARKING PERIOD DEFINED.
   A change of position of a vehicle from one point directly to another point,
within the same block, shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-91 IMPOUNDMENT – AUTHORIZED.
   Any motor vehicle found parked in violation of the provisions of this
article may be towed or caused to be towed by the town or any police officer
thereof to a storage site and shall be retained there until the owner of such
vehicle pays all fines and costs imposed as a result of the violation of this
article, and all towing, storing and advertising charges as provided for. The
town or any police officer is further authorized to tow or cause to be towed
and impound motor vehicles parked in loading and unloading zones that are not
in the actual performance of loading and unloading, and in no parking zones.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-92 SAME – REDEMPTION.
   After storage, the owner of any motor vehicle seized may within ten days
prove his or her ownership of such motor vehicle; and, upon such proof, such
motor vehicle will be returned to such owner upon payment of reasonable towing
and storage charges and other costs of seizure of such vehicle and all fines
and costs imposed as a result of the violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-93 SAME – EFFECT OF FAILURE TO REDEEM.
   If after ten days no proof of ownership is established, such motor vehicle
seized under § 6-91 shall be sold at public auction at the Town Hall to the
highest bidder for cash after first advertising such sale by posting a notice
on the seized vehicle, on the Town Hall door, and in three other public places
in the town for 20 days; and out of the proceeds of such sale all costs and
charges due for towing, storage and the expenses of seizure and sale of such
vehicle or other motor vehicle shall be paid; and the surplus, if any, shall be
deposited with the Town Treasurer and held by him or her and paid to the owner
of such motor vehicle upon proof of ownership.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§§ 6-94 – 6-100 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PROHIBITED, RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 6-101 DESIGNATION OF NO PARKING AREAS.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow or red in lieu of such signs, no person shall
park a vehicle at any time in any zone designated as a no parking zone, as
provided in § 6-51. In the event that parking is prohibited in such zone only
between certain hours, this section shall apply only between such hours, as
indicated on the signs erected in such zone. Such zones shall be clearly and
distinctly marked and indicated upon the official traffic-control and parking
regulation signs, markings and other devices map on file in the office of the
Police Department.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-102 PARKING IN LIMITED PARKING ZONE.
   Whenever a parking zone is designated in accord with § 6-51, limiting the
time or conditions under which such vehicle may be parked, no person shall park
any vehicle in such zone except in accord with the signs and markings erected
therein. Such zones shall be clearly and distinctly marked and indicated upon
the official traffic-control and parking regulation signs, markings and other
devices map on file in the office of the Police Department. A change of
position of a vehicle from one point directly to another point in the same
block shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-103 NO PARKING AREA DESIGNATED.
   Parking is prohibited along both shoulders of SR 1568 (New River Inlet Road)
from its intersection with NC 210 to River Drive (approximately 5.317 miles).
This no parking area shall be enforced by law enforcement officers of the town
and effective upon the erection of proper signs which indicate the no parking
area.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-5-2012)
§ 6-104 PROHIBITIONS IN TOWN PARKING LOTS.
   Vehicles greater than 23 feet in length are prohibited within town parking
lots.
(Ord. passed 6-5-2024)
§§ 6-105 – 6-110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. BICYCLES
§ 6-111 OBSERVANCE OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall be required to observe traffic-control
signals in the same manner as is required of motor vehicles and shall also be
required to have such bicycle under complete control before entering any
arterial highway within the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-112 IMPOUNDING.
   Any law enforcement officer of this town may impound any bicycle operated in
violation of the provisions of this chapter and retain possession of the same
until ownership is established; provided, that nothing herein contained shall
be construed to limit the authority of law enforcement officers to take into
custody any bicycle believed to have been stolen.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-113 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle to attach the same
or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-114 LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white
light visible from a distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a lamp
on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 200 feet to the
rear, except that a red reflector may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§§ 6-115 – 6-119 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. NOISE CONTROL
§ 6-120 ESTABLISHED.
   It is found and declared that:
   (a)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud
noises within the limits of the town is a condition which has existed for some
time and the extent and volume of such noises is increasing;
   (b)   The making, creation or maintenance of such excessive unnecessary,
unnatural or unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual and unnatural
in their time, place and use affect and are a detriment to public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents of the
town; and
   (c)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
the town and its inhabitants.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
   Noise generally, see G.S. § 14-132
§ 6-121 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Subject to the provisions of this article, the creation of any unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town is prohibited. Noise of such
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-122 EXCEPTION.
   Noise caused in the performance of emergency work for the immediate safety,
health or welfare of the community or individuals of the community, or to
restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity shall not be
subject to the provisions of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992)
§ 6-123 BLOWING HORNS.
   The sounding of any horn, whistle or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle or railroad train, except as a danger signal
or as required by law, so as to create any unreasonable, loud or harsh sound or
the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time
shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-124 SIRENS.
   The using of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police, fire or
other emergency vehicle shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-125 PLAYING RADIOS AND THE LIKE.
   The playing of any radio, television set, record player, musical instrument
or sound producing or sound amplifying device in such a manner or with such
volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence shall be deemed a violation of this
article. This article shall not apply to events held pursuant to a special
event permit issued by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992; Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-6-2014) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-126 PETS.
   The keeping of any animal or bird, which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-127 USE OF VEHICLES.
   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded
or operated in such a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, screeching of tires or other noise shall be deemed a
violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-128 DISCHARGE OF EXHAUST.
   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, boat motor or engine or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-129 COMPRESSED AIR DEVICES.
   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless the
noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced, shall be deemed a
violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-130 BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   Any activity requiring a building or zoning permit that occurs other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, on Saturdays between
9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and on Sundays between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
provided that the Town Manager or designee approves a request submitted by the
permit holder, indicating the compelling reasons shall be deemed a violation of
this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992; Ord. 2010-1, passed 2-4-2010) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-131 QUIET ZONES.
   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any church,
school, institution of learning, library, sanitarium or court while the same is
in session, or within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes
with the working of such institutions; provided, that conspicuous signs are
displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, court or
hospital zone, shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-132 LOADING AND UNLOADING OPERATIONS.
   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with the loading or
unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers shall be deemed a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-133 BELLS OR GONGS.
   The sound of any bell or gong attached to any building or premises which
disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof shall be deemed
a violation of this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-134 PEDDLERS AND THE LIKE.
   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers or vendors, which disturbs the
quiet and peace of the neighborhood, shall be deemed a violation of this
article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-135 NOISES TO ATTRACT ATTENTION.
   The use of any bell, drum, loudspeaker or other instrument for the purpose
of attracting attention by the creation of noise to any performance, show,
sale, display or advertisement of merchandise shall be deemed a violation of
this article.
(Ord. passed 6-6-1992) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-136 RESERVED.
§ 6-137 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (a)   Statement of policy. It is the policy of the town to maintain a
peaceful community at all times, while recognizing that certain noises are
generated by the expected and acceptable economic and recreational activity of
a vibrant community. The goal of the town is to encourage such activity while
ensuring that time periods during which many of the residents are customarily
at rest or have an expectation of peaceful enjoyment of their residences are
not disturbed by unacceptable levels of noise. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, corporation or other entity to make, allow or cause to be made
any loud noise in violation of § 6-139 of this chapter, unless otherwise
allowed by the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Reasonable. When the word REASONABLE is used herein, it shall mean
fair, proper, just, moderate and suitable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-11-2014) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-138 TYPES OF NOISES EXEMPTED.
   The following acts and noises are the types of loud noises which generally
do not violate the prohibitions of this chapter:
   (a)   Horns, signaling devices, sirens and the like. The sounding of any
horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, as a
danger signal, or the use of any siren upon any bona fide police, fire or other
emergency vehicle or equipment;
   (b)   Alarms. Car, home and similar types of alarms which are activated and
allowed to continue because said person(s) or entities believe that a crime is
being committed;
   (c)   Fireworks. The use of fireworks on the fourth of July from 12:00 p.m.
to 10:00 p.m.;
   (d)   Vehicles. The idling or running of a motor vehicle for a period of
time reasonably needed to “warm” a vehicle’s engine before use;
   (e)   The deposit or disturbance of solid waste materials and recyclables.
The noise in connection with deposit of solid waste materials or recyclables
into containers or receptacles, or the disturbance of solid waste materials or
recyclables already in containers or receptacles from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
   (f)   Town construction activity. Construction activity conducted by a
governmental entity or its contractor and specifically authorized by the Board
of Aldermen following general notice to the public and a public hearing. For
purposes of the notice required by this section and all subsequent sections, it
shall be sufficient that the specific topic of the public hearing is included
in the agenda of the meeting during which it is to take place and the agenda,
with the item listed, is posted in advance of the meeting on the town’s
official website;
   (g)   Town and town-arranged vehicles. The normal and customary sounds from
town vehicles and vehicles arranged by the town, engaged in activities related
to the discharge of critical town duties such as removing snow, repairing
damaged water or sewer lines, responding to fires, responding to vehicle
accidents, responding to storms and the like, will not be considered noises or
activities which violate this chapter. However, construction and non-routine
town maintenance activities are exempt only if conducted between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless explicitly authorized by the Board of Aldermen
following general notice to the public and a public hearing;
   (h)   Commercial and residential construction. The erection, including the
excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, on Saturdays between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. and on Sundays between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
   (i)   Emergency repairs and construction. Construction and repairs done in
the case of urgent necessity, in the interests of public safety and, where
necessary, with a permit from the Building Inspector which permit may be
renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency continues;
   (j)   Community events.
      (1)   The normal and customary sounds emanating from a non-recurring
community event conducted by a governmental entity, school, church or similar
noncommercial entity will not be considered noises or activities which violate
this chapter, so long as the event with which the noise is associated begins no
earlier than 6:00 a.m. and ends no later than 10:00 p.m. For purposes of this
subsection (j), NON-RECURRING shall refer to an event which occurs no more than
four times during any calendar year. However, an event can lose its status as a
community event under this section if multiple complaints from different
sources are received about the noise level emanating from the event, and upon
investigation, the police determine that the noise levels at the property
boundary of the property upon which the event is conducted closest to the
source of the noise, or with respect to events such as parades which utilize
the public streets, ten feet or more from the curb or edge of the street
pavement when no curb exists, violate the standards set out in §
6-139. If an event loses its status as a “community event” it shall no longer
enjoy the presumption under this section that it does not violate the chapter.
      (2)   Any event or series of events specifically authorized in advance by
the Board of Aldermen following general notice to the public and a public
hearing may be allowed as a community event, including one for which noise
exceeding the limits of §
6-139 is predicted in the town.
      (3)   The Board of Aldermen shall review the application for permit and
make determinations as to the granting or denial of the requested permit based
upon the following criteria:
         a.   The time at which such sounds levels occur;
         b.   The duration of such sound levels;
         c.   The proximity of such activities and devices to buildings and to
dwellings;
         d.   The history of complaints generated by previous activities
similar in nature and context;
         e.   The history of complaints against the applicant for unreasonable
noise;
         f.   Whether the sound levels produced by such devices and activities
are recurrent, intermittent, constant; and
         g.   The density of habitation of such zones.
      (4)   Before approving such event or series of events, the Board of
Aldermen shall confirm that notice of the public hearing was posted at least
seven days prior to the hearing on the town’s website and in every other place
at which the town has posted notice of the meeting during which the public
hearing is to take place. The applicant for designation as a community event
shall provide a schedule of the starting and ending time of the event, a
description of the noise-generating activities which are expected from the
event, a summary of all steps which will be taken to mitigate any negative
noise impacts of the event, and the location of the event;
   (k)   Remote vehicle entry or key. The use of a remote vehicle entry or key
causing an audible “beep” when used simply to lock or unlock a vehicle prior to
or following the reasonable use of the vehicle shall not be considered an
excessive, unreasonable or unusually loud noise; and
   (l)   Ordinary use of power tools. The ordinary use of a noise-causing tool,
such as a lawnmower, “weed eater,” circular saw, chainsaw and the like, if used
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. shall not be considered an
excessive, unreasonable or unusually loud noise so long as the tool is being
used for a legitimate maintenance or construction purpose associated with the
property upon which it is utilized, and the person using such tool takes all
practical steps to minimize its noise impacts on others.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 6-139 ALLOWABLE NOISE LEVELS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (a)   Noise level time periods. During the time period of 9:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m., any commercial establishment or residence located in the town may emit
sound not exceeding 70 decibels. During the time period of 10:00 p.m. to 9:00
a.m., any commercial establishment or residence located in the town may emit
sound not exceeding 55 decibels.
   (b)   Rules for measurement. For purposes of this section, sound shall be
measured using the following rules:
      (1)   Devices used for measurement. Measurements of decibel levels shall
be made with a sound level meter designated at least as “Type II” meeting ANSI
S1.4-1971 requirements, (referring to “American National Standard Specification
for Sound Level Meters, Acoustical Society of America, New York, NY”)
(hereinafter referred to as “decibel meter”).
      (2)   Settings of decibel meter when sound measured. The sound
measurement shall be made with the decibel meter using the A-weighted scale,
set on “slow” response.
      (3)   Location of measurement. Measurements taken to determine compliance
with this section shall be made at any property line of the offender.
      (4)   Duration of measurement to establish violation. In order to
establish a violation of this section, the duration of measurement(s) which
must be registered by the decibel meter must equal or exceed a level
continuously exceeding the established limits for 15 continuous seconds, or for
two or more periods within a 60-second period, each exceeding the established
limits for five continuous seconds.
      (5)   Time of measurement. Except for sounds created or broadcast outside
the commercial establishment or live music venue, and unless the door of a
commercial establishment or live music venue is open for periods exceeding
times needed for normal ingress and egress, such as when a door is propped
open, measurements shall be taken with the door closed.
   (c)   Sounds not authorized by this section. This section does not excuse
people who have left the premises of a commercial establishment or residence,
temporarily or otherwise, from compliance with this chapter. PREMISES for
purposes of this subsection (c) refers, when such activities are conducted
indoors, to the indoor area of a commercial establishment or residence in which
the sound is created or broadcast. PREMISES for purposes of this subsection (c)
refers, when such activities are conducted outdoors, to the borders of the
property upon which the sound is created or broadcast. A person, for example,
who has left a commercial establishment or residence to smoke a cigarette on
the public sidewalk outside is subject to the full enforcement of this chapter.
Similarly, otherwise prohibited noise created by an employee of a commercial
establishment such as that caused by depositing empty bottles or cans in
recycling containers in the middle of the night, is not excused by this
section, and such noise production shall subject the offending individual to
enforcement in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   Responsibility for violation. The owner of the commercial business
establishment or residence shall be responsible for a violation of this
section, or if none can be determined, the owner of the property shall be
responsible. Before the owner of the property is cited, however, the town shall
determine whether there is any current lease of record registered in the County
Registry, and if so, the lessee or tenant shall stand in the place of the owner
and shall be responsible. An entity such as a limited liability company or
corporation may not evade responsibility for repeat violations by altering its
structure, and if there is any identity or overlap between the ownership,
membership or shareholders of a cited sole proprietorship, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation or other entity, and the ownership, membership
or shareholders of a subsequently cited sole proprietorship, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation or other entity operating in the same
location, or in the case of the outdoor emission of live, recorded or amplified
music, in any location within the corporate limits, the entities shall be
considered one and the same.
   (e)   Penalties for violation. The first violation of this provision shall
subject the person or entity responsible for the violation to a written
warning, the issuance of which shall be recorded and maintained by the Police
Department. A second violation shall subject the person or entity responsible
to a civil penalty in the amount of $100, a third violation to a civil penalty
in the amount of $250, and each subsequent violation shall result in the
assessment of a $500 civil penalty.
   (f)   Written notice of warning or violation, time for payment and action by
town for nonpayment. A person or entity responsible for a violation under this
section shall be issued a written warning or notice of the violation stating
the amount of the civil penalty, as appropriate. Such written notice may be
delivered to the person in charge of the commercial establishment or residence
at the time of the violation, or, if none is present, to any employee of the
commercial establishment at the time of the violation. Alternatively or in
addition, in the case of an entity which has an agent for service of process
registered with the Secretary of State, a written warning or notice of the
violation may be mailed to such agent at the registered address by regular mail
or certified mail, return receipt requested. Any civil penalty must be paid
within 30 days after the receipt of the notice. If the person or entity
responsible does not pay the penalty within 30 days, the town may recover such
penalty and all subsequently accruing penalties in a civil action. In the event
that it is necessary for the town to institute a civil action to collect one or
more civil penalties, the person or entity responsible shall be responsible for
all costs, including attorney’s fees, incurred by the town.
   (g)   Other laws. Just because a sound is at a decibel level allowed under
this section does not exempt it from the obscenity laws of the town, the county
or the state and any and all other applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-11-2014)
§§ 6-140 – 6-145 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII. WRECKER/TOWING SERVICES AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 6-146 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROTATION LIST. The list of eligible wrecker or towing services or persons
who meet the criteria of this article.
   WRECKER APPLICANT or APPLICANT. Any person or company that can provide
wrecker and towing service within the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-147 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee is hereby designated as a
responsible agent for maintaining a list of eligible wrecker/towing services
and ensuring that criteria as set out in this article is strictly adhered to
both initially and following execution of the agreement.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-148 WRECKER SERVICE APPLICATION/AGREEMENT.
   It is the policy of the town that any applicant desiring to perform wrecker/
towing service at police request shall submit a wrecker service application/
agreement in duplicate to the Chief of Police. The application form shall be
obtained from the office of the Chief of Police. Failure to accept this article
or to adhere to it at any time shall enable the Chief of Police or his or her
designee to rescind or nullify this agreement.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-149 DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF WRECKER TOW SERVICES.
   It will be the responsibility of any applicant to assure continued
compliance with all provisions and requirements set forth in the agreement and
this article.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-150 AVAILABILITY AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS; LOCATION AND TOWING TO BE WITHIN
CITY LIMITS.
   (a)   The applicant shall provide continuous 24-hour on-duty or on-call
service each day of the year, and there shall be an attendant on duty or on
call at all times for the purpose of receiving and releasing stored vehicles.
The applicant must, at his or her garage, or in its immediate vicinity, provide
sufficient fenced storage space with security lights for storage of vehicles
and indoor storage for motorcycles.
   (b)   All applicants for town rotation must have his or her towing business
separate and apart from any other towing business. Applicants applying for
rotation towing service for the Police Department must have a storage lot and
facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-151 LIABILITY; INSURANCE.
   The applicant shall assume all liability and shall indemnify and save the
town harmless from such liability for damages sustained by vehicles while being
towed or stored and for all personal injuries occurring to any of the
applicants and employees and other persons, and maintain sufficient liability
insurance to cover damage, personal injury or loss of property while the
vehicles are in the applicant firm’s custody.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-152 WRECKER EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   Each wrecker used by the applicant must be a minimum of one-ton
capacity and equipped with the following service equipment, each of which shall
be specifically designed for the purpose of assisting at an accident scene:
      (1)   Broom;
      (2)   Shovel;
      (3)   Two snatch blocks;
      (4)   Fire extinguisher;
      (5)   Power take-off (eight-ton pulling capacity);
      (6)   Cable (one spool at least 100 feet in length and three-eighths inch
or more in diameter); and
      (7)   Dollies for transporting vehicles with severe damage.
   (b)   In addition, wreckers must be equipped with the following safety
equipment as required by state law:
      (1)   Brakes (reference G.S. § 20-124):
         a.   Hand brakes (electric brake lock);
         b.   Foot brake:
            1.   Hydraulic, with booster; and
            2.   Hydraulic, with air.
      (2)   Lights (reference G.S. §§ 20-129, 20-129.1, 20-130.1, 20-130.2 and
20-131); and
      (3)   Mirrors (reference G.S. § 20-126).
   (c)   In general, an applicant must assure the town that he or she or it
will have available equipment capable of towing any automobile or truck from
the streets and other public or private places upon request by the Police
Department. All wreckers must be kept in good working condition and meet the
minimum safety requirements, not only as specified above and elsewhere, but in
all applicable sections of this code or the General Statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-153 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant will agree to permit periodic inspections by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee to assure that all criteria of this article are
met.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-154 REGULATIONS GOVERNING WRECKER OPERATIONS.
   (a)   Driver’s license. Any individual operating a wrecker must have in his
or her possession a valid class A, B or C driver’s license, and must be 18
years of age or older.
   (b)   Registration plate. Each wrecker vehicle must conform to G.S. § 20-50
or G.S. § 20-79 in that each wrecker is required to have a proper registration
plate. No dealers’ plates may be displayed on wreckers.
   (c)   Chasing or running wrecks. Wreckers are specifically prohibited from
“chasing or running wrecks” or soliciting business at accident scenes. Any
violator will be immediately removed from the town rotation list.
   (d)   Response to calls. Wreckers on the rotation list are expected to
respond to calls. The Police Department shall notify the towing firm after the
second call with no response. If the towing firm does not respond to the third
consecutive rotation call without prior notification to the Police Department,
the towing firm shall be automatically removed from the town rotation list
until further notice from the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6-155 RATE SCHEDULE AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHARGES.
   (a)   All costs incident to towing and storage shall be paid by the owner or
person in charge of possession of the towed and stored vehicle to the owner of
the wrecker company, and a receipt for payment shall be issued to such person.
The town shall assume no liability or responsibility for any vehicle removed
from an owner’s premises without the town’s authority or the collection of the
established fee. It is the responsibility of any applicant under agreement with
the town that it notify the Police Department prior to removing a vehicle not
authorized by the Police Department from private property.
   (b)   Each applicant will agree to the standard as may be prescribed by the
Board of Aldermen.
   (c)   The Chief of Police shall be required to furnish to the Board of
Aldermen an update of the rate schedule on a semiannual basis.
   (d)   The rates shall be recommended by a study committee comprised of the
Chief of Police, his or her designee and three towing firm owners, who will be
selected by the general body of those towing firms who are members of the town
rotation system. The rates shall be based upon current standard insurance
company rates, plus additional fees for towing under exceptional circumstances
and conditions.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-156 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF POLICE OFFICERS – WRECKER AND TOW
SERVICES; ROTATION LIST.
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall ensure that wreckers are called to the scene
of an accident on a rotational basis, distributing the calls on an equitable
basis from the towing rotation list. The towing list will be composed of the
approved applicants under this policy. The Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall not call or cause to be called any wrecker not having executed
an agreement with the town unless he or she declares that an emergency exists
and that all other wreckers are unavailable. In addition, the following
specifically regulates the operations, as to tows, by the Police Department.
Police and accident investigations personnel will ascertain from each owner or
operator of the vehicle if he or she desires any particular towing firm. The
officer will dispatch the wrecker of the owner’s or operator’s choice, provided
the wrecker driver did not “chase” the accident, is not at the scene and did
not solicit the business from the street or highway. Wreckers at the scene will
not be permitted to pull a wrecked vehicle unless the officer determines that
an emergency exists, a person is trapped in a vehicle, or traffic congestion is
such that requires immediate service.
   (b)   If the owner or operator of the vehicle does not request a particular
towing firm, then the officer will have the police dispatcher call the next
wrecker service on the rotation list.
   (c)   The Chief of Police may remove the name of a towing firm from the
rotation list for violations of this article, for failure to comply with any
provision hereof, for any fraudulent information made in the application or
agreement or a violation of state statutes or town ordinances, for a lack of
cooperation while rendering service or for other justifiable causes.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-157 SAME – IMPOUNDMENTS.
   In compliance with the policy of the Police Department, the following
procedure shall be followed by all Police Department personnel when they have a
vehicle towed or stored.
   (a)   The officer causing the vehicle to be towed or stored shall:
      (1)   Complete the storage/towed vehicle report at the scene prior to the
vehicle being towed or stored;
      (2)   Fill in all available information, including the towing vehicle
driver’s name, on the front part of the stored/towed vehicle report; and
      (3)   Conduct a complete inventory of all items in the vehicle (i.e. C.B.
radios, tape decks, tools and all other items of value). Make note if AM/FM
radio or spare tire is missing, or if there is any damage to the vehicle’s
interior or exterior:
         a.   If the vehicle is locked, if possible, open the vehicle,
inventory all items inside, including the trunk. If a crime has been committed,
all loose items of value shall be turned in to the evidence technician as
evidence, otherwise for safekeeping;
         b.   If the vehicle is locked and cannot be opened, list all items
that can be seen from the outside of the vehicle to be stored or towed;
         c.   Have the towing vehicle (wrecker) driver verify and sign the
inventory. Provide a copy of inventory to the towing firm; and
         d.   When applicable, the officer will issue a parking citation to
each towed vehicle and attach to the stored/towed vehicle report.
   (b)   When an officer finds that an illegally parked vehicle cannot be
identified by registration or by VIN, the officer shall place on the
windshield, or other conspicuous place, a notice that the vehicle will be towed
in seven days if not removed prior to that time. After the seven-day period has
expired, the officer may have the vehicle towed. Notice by posting on the
windshield or other conspicuous place need not be given when the vehicle is
impeding the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardizing the public welfare so
that immediate towing is necessary.
   (c)   The officer causing the vehicle to be towed or stored shall turn the
report into the records center at the first opportunity.
   (d)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, the officer must, within 24
hours after the towing, notify the owner by telephone and provide the
following:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The location of vehicle storage;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure that the owner must follow to have the vehicle
returned; and
      (5)   The procedure that the owner must follow to request a probable-
cause hearing about the towing.
   (e)   If the vehicle has an out-of-state registration, the notice must be
given to the owner within 72 hours.
   (f)   If the owner of the vehicle does not have a telephone, or contact
cannot be made by telephone, no further attempts are required. However, this
shall be noted in the remarks section of the stored/towed vehicle report.
   (g)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11, if the owner of the vehicle requests a
hearing on the probable cause of the towing, he or she shall be requested to
contact the Magistrate to make the arrangements. The Magistrate shall then have
72 hours to set up a hearing to determine if the officer had probable cause for
the towing. If a hearing is requested, the magistrate shall notify the owner of
the vehicle, the law enforcement officer and the person who towed the vehicle
of the time, date and location of the hearing.
   (h)   If the Magistrate finds probable cause in the hearing for vehicle
towing, the owner is responsible for towing fees to be paid to the tower. If
the magistrate finds that there is not probable cause for towing, the officer
and the agency are responsible for paying the towing fees.
   (i)   Release of the stored/towed vehicle when:
      (1)   The stored/towed vehicle is marked “safekeeping:”
         a.   The owner shall be required to come to the records center with
the proof of ownership of the vehicle and obtain a written release.
         b.   The stored/towed vehicle shall be pulled from the stored vehicle
file, a copy of the release form shall be attached to the back and all copies
placed in the released vehicle file.
      (2)   The stored/towed vehicle report is marked “Hold” (meaning the
vehicle is being held for investigation, evidence and the like), and only the
storing officer may sign the release form.
   (j)   A report shall not have to be made for request tow.
   (k)   The completion of the stored/towed vehicle report in no way diminishes
the requirement of making stolen or recovered vehicle reports and investigative
reports.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-158 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF WRECKER FIRMS PROVIDING TOWING FOR
IMPOUNDMENT PURPOSES.
   Any individual or wrecker firm (applicant) providing impoundment services
for the town under this article will execute an agreement with the town similar
to the agreement addressed in the accident towing policy with the exception of
the following additional requirements.
   (a)   The applicant will agree to work closely and cooperatively with the
Police Department, and if error is made in the impoundment of a vehicle, to
promptly release such vehicle at the order of the Police Department without
financial liability to either the individual vehicle owner or the town.
   (b)   If an owner of a stored vehicle requests a hearing by a Magistrate,
and the Magistrate does not find probable cause for the vehicle to be stored,
the towing firm must release the vehicle to the owner or person in charge of
possession of the stored vehicle without any financial liability to the officer
or the town or the owner or legal possessor of the vehicle.
   (c)   Any vehicle seized by the Police Department as evidence in a crime
shall be towed to the town storage lot by a regular rotation wrecker. Firms
that tow such vehicles will remain on top of the rotation list for next
rotation call. The towing firm shall release any vehicle that is awarded to the
Police Department by the courts without any financial liability to the Police
Department or the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-159 APPEAL.
   Any towing firm on the town rotation or impoundment list may appeal the
enforcement action of any provision of this article taken by the Chief of
Police to the Town Manager. The appeal must be made in writing to the Town
Manager within five days of the enforcement action being taken. The Town
Manager shall establish any and all rules concerning such hearings and shall
set a hearing date within a reasonable period of time.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 6-160 PRIVATE TOWING.
   All private individuals and/or all towing firms, after towing or causing to
be towed a vehicle from private property without the owner’s consent, within
the town limits, shall immediately notify the Police Department giving a
description of the vehicle being towed; the vehicle registration number; the
vehicle identification number; the date, time and location from which the
vehicle was towed; the location to which the vehicle was towed; and the name of
the person who requested that the vehicle be towed.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
ARTICLE IX. ENFORCEMENT
§ 6-161 CIVIL PENALTY FOR TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Generally. The owner or operator of any such vehicle who has been
notified of such violation, may, within the time specified in the notice,
present himself or herself by mail or in person with the notice or ticket at
the Police Department and answer the violations noted on such notice by
voluntarily paying the civil penalty specified on the citation. Any vehicle
owner/operator receiving a ticket under the provisions of this article shall be
allowed to pay the penalty amount, without contesting the violation, by
appearing in person at the Town of North Topsail Beach, 2008 Loggerhead Court,
North Topsail Beach, NC 28460 within 15 days of issuance of the notice or
ticket.
   (b)   Construction. The penalty provided in this article to be paid to and
received by the Traffic Violations Bureau shall in no event be construed to be
enforced imposition fines or forfeitures, but such amounts shall be construed
to be civil penalties which offenders may voluntarily pay for those minor
traffic law violations which are expressly made to fall within the application
of this article to the extent therein provided. Such penalty shall be paid
within 15 days of the issuance of the notice or ticket or such sum shall be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (c)   Disposition of proceeds. All penalties paid to the town for traffic
violations as set forth in this article shall be paid into the General Fund of
the town.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
§ 6-162 TICKETING OF VEHICLES.
   (a)   Required. Whenever a member of the Police Department charged by this
code; or other ordinance within the enforcement provisions of this code, or
other ordinances of the town regulating the parking of vehicles, shall find
that any of such provisions are being or have been violated by the owner or
operator of any vehicle, such person shall notify such owner or operator of
such violation by conspicuously attaching to such vehicle a notice or ticket in
such form as the Police Chief may determine.
   (b)   Contents. Such notice or ticket shall require the owner or operator to
appear before the Police Chief or his or her designee within 15 days after such
notice is given and answer to same or to return such ticket or notice by mail
with civil penalty, as set out in § 6-161. Failure to meet this deadline will
result in a $25 late fee.
   (c)   Personal appearance. Personal appearance will not be necessary if such
penalty is received by the town within 15 days of issuance of such notice or
ticket.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1998)
ARTICLE X. ALARM CONTROL SYSTEMS
§ 6-163 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC FALSE ALARM SYSTEMS. An alarm system will be classified as a CHRONIC
FALSE ALARM SYSTEM upon either of the following conditions:
      (1)   Two responses to false alarms at the same location within a six-
week period; or
      (2)   More than four responses to false alarms at the same location
within a 52-week period.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of a burglary, robbery, fire or other alarm for
the purposes of summoning the Police or Fire Department or which causes the
fire or police to be summoned, at a time when no fire, emergency or crime is
being committed or attempted on the premises.
      (1)   False alarms include those caused by:
         a.   Error mistake. Any action by any person, firm or corporation, or
other entity or agency thereof, owning or operating any dwelling, building or
place which results in the activation of any alarm system when no emergency
exists;
         b.   Malfunction. Any activation of any alarm system caused by a flaw
in the normal operation, design, installation, maintenance of the system, by
faulty equipment or by a change in the environment or premises upon or within
which the alarm system is operating; and/or
         c.   Intentional misuse. Any intentional activation of an alarm system
when no burglary, robbery, vandalism, fire or other emergency is in progress.
      (2)   An alarm will not be considered a FALSE ALARM if it is determined
that the alarm was caused by:
         a.   Natural or manmade catastrophe or an act of God. Such events
include tornadoes, floods, earthquakes or other similarly violent conditions;
         b.   Vandalism causing physical damage to the premises;
         c.   Telephone line outage;
         d.   Attempted illegal entry of a location causing visible, physical
or other evidence of damage to said location;
         e.   Severe weather causing physical damage to the premises;
         f.   The testing of a local/audible alarm system by a licensed alarm
business agent or employee who is present at the premises servicing, repairing
or installing the alarm when such testing does not result in the alarm being
activated for an uninterrupted period exceeding 60 seconds and provided that
the town has been notified in advance that testing will occur. Notice by
telephone or written letter is sufficient.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2001)
§ 6-164 NOTICE OF FALSE ALARM.
   For every police or fire response by the town to the premises at which a
false alarm has been determined to have occurred, a false alarm notice shall be
left at that location. A copy of this notice shall be retained at the
appropriate fire or police records divisions.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2001)
§ 6-165 CORRECTIVE ACTION AND PENALTY.
   (a)   Once an alarm system has been classified as a chronic false alarm
system as defined by §
6-163:
      (1)   A notice will be sent by certified mail to the user of that system
indicating the system must be inspected by a state licensed alarm industry
business or representative. That user will have ten working days, excluding
holidays, after receipt of said notice to return a fully completed inspection
form to the Fire Chief or Police Chief; and
      (2)   Notwithstanding further false alarms at the location after ten
working days and within 12 months from the date of notice provided as required
herein shall subject the owner to penalties as follows:
         a.   First false alarm: $100;
         b.   Second false alarm: $250; and
         c.   Third and subsequent false alarms, each: $500.
   (b)   Within ten days following the imposition of any penalties imposed
pursuant to this section, the penalties may be appealed to the Town Manager or
his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2001)
CHAPTER 6.5: OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
6.5-1   Posting of signs prohibiting the carrying of concealed weapons
Article II. Lot Clearing
   
6.5-15   Findings of fact
   
6.5-16   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
6.5-17   Investigation of complaints
   
6.5-18   Notice and order to abate on finding of existence
   
6.5-19   Removal by town – Generally
   
6.5-20   Same – Abatement cost
   
6.5-21   Same – Lien upon property
   
6.5-22   Other remedies
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6.5-1 POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING THE CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (a)   Posting of signs required. The Police Chief is hereby authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each municipal park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as
lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town indicating that
carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited therein.
   (b)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The Police Chief shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and municipal parks. Nothing contained in this section shall authorize the
posting of any outdoor area, such as a parking lot, exclusive of municipal
parks, nor shall the carrying of a concealed weapon with the appropriate permit
be prohibited in any outdoor area, with the exclusion of municipal parks.
(Ord. passed 11-2-1995; Ord. passed 10-8-2007)
ARTICLE II. LOT CLEARING
§ 6.5-15 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The Board of Aldermen finds that the uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds
and grass, the accumulation of offensive animal and vegetable matter, and the
accumulation of refuse causes or threatens to cause a nuisance dangerous and
prejudicial to the public health or safety and that it is in the best interest
and welfare of the citizens of the town to abate such nuisances.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
Statutory reference:
   Required findings, see G.S. § 160A-303.2
§ 6.5-16 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land (whether improved or unimproved) within the town limits is
declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and
constitute a public nuisance:
   (a)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
   (b)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard; or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water; or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (c)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (d)   The open storage of any abandoned icebox, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar items, or wrecked or junked
motor vehicles or parts thereof;
   (e)   Any structure that has been condemned by the Town Building Inspector
as unfit for human habitation in accordance with the State Building Code and as
otherwise by law provided; and
   (f)   Household contents or portions of a building or structure remaining in
an open area upon a lot or parcel of land after damage by fire, wind, water,
erosion or any combination of the foregoing.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 6.5-17 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Building Inspector, upon notice from any person of the possible
existence of any of the conditions described in §
6.5-16, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official or town official such investigations as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
6.5-16.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
§ 6.5-18 NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE ON FINDING OF EXISTENCE.
   (a)   Whenever it appears that any conditions described in §
6.5-16 exist, the Town Building Inspector shall cause to be delivered or mailed
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of the property upon
which the conditions exist a notice stating why the conditions may constitute a
violation and that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a
place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery
or mailing of the notice. The owner or any party in interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and to give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person
desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in such hearings.
   (b)   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Building Inspector shall notify, in writing, the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance
and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of
such written notice.
   (c)   Every decision of the Building Inspector shall be subject to review by
the Board of Aldermen. Any appeal to the Board of Aldermen shall be taken
within ten days of the date of the hearing, and written notice thereof shall be
served upon the town within the ten-day period. During the appeal to the Board
of Aldermen any action to abate the nuisance shall be stayed.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
§ 6.5-19 REMOVAL BY TOWN – GENERALLY.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance pursuant to the
provisions of this article, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
conditions constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order,
the Building Inspector shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise
remedied by having employees of the town go upon the premises and remove or
otherwise abate such nuisances under the supervision of an officer or employee
designated by the Building Inspector. Any person who has been ordered to abate
a public nuisance may within the time allowed in this article request the town
in writing to remove such condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the
person making such request.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
§ 6.5-20 SAME – ABATEMENT COST.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance under this article shall be charged to the owner of such lot or
parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a
statement of such charges to the owner or other person in possession of such
premises with instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days
from the receipt thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
§ 6.5-21 SAME – LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance under this article
which are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of the
charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance
existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
§ 6.5-22 OTHER REMEDIES.
   The procedure in this article shall be in addition to any other remedies
that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this article shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person violating the provisions of this article as
provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1990)
CHAPTER 7: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-1   Scope
   
7-2   State codes adopted
   
7-3   Amendments to codes
   
7-4   Compliance with codes
   
7-5   Copies of codes on file
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76
§ 7-1 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted in this
chapter shall apply to the following:
   (a)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to such building or structure;
   (b)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (c)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (d)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012)
§ 7-2 STATE CODES ADOPTED.
   The latest editions of the Administrative Code and Policies, Building Code,
Residential Code, Fire Prevention Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code, Fuel
Gas Code, Energy Conservation Code and Electrical Code, as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, are hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012)
§ 7-3 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this chapter,
which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to in this chapter, shall be effective in the town at
the time the amendments are filed with the Town Clerk or Building Inspector as
provided in §
7-5.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012)
§ 7-4 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (a)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the State Building Code, General Construction or the State Uniform
Residential State Building Code, whichever is applicable, or of both if both
are applicable.
   (b)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the State Plumbing
Code.
   (c)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the State Heating Code.
   (d)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the State Electrical Code.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012)
§ 7-5 COPIES OF CODES ON FILE.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in this chapter and
official copies of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in the office
of the Town Clerk or Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official
copies of the codes and the amendments.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-5-2012)
CHAPTER 8: FIRE CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
8-1   State code adopted
   
8-2   Rules and regulations
   
8-3   Violation of chapter
   
8-4   Enforcement of code
   
8-5   Items covered by fire code
   
8-6   Investigations required
   
8-7   Inspection requirements for permits
   
8-8   Periodic inspections of premises
   
8-9   Removal of fire hazards
   
8-10   Records required
   
8-11   Annual report required
   
8-12   Responsibility for recommended changes to the code
   
8-13   Provision application
   
8-14   Preservation/protection of public health, safety and welfare
   
8-15   Bonfires, rubbish fires and charcoal grills
   
8-16   Violation remedies
   
8-17   Authority for fee schedule
§ 8-1 STATE CODE ADOPTED.
   As ordained in Building Regulations §
7-2, the latest edition of the Fire Prevention Code as adopted by the State
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-2 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide the town with rules and
regulations to improve public safety by promoting the control of fire hazards;
to regulate the installation, use and maintenance of equipment; to regulate the
use of structures, premises and open areas; to provide for the abatement of
fire hazards; to establish the responsibilities and procedures for code
enforcement; and to set forth the standards for compliance and achievement of
these objectives.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-3 VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this chapter, to permit or
maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any provision thereof or to fail
or refuse to comply with any such provisions or regulations except as variation
may be allowed by the action of the Fire Prevention Inspectors, Fire Marshal or
Fire Chief, in writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed
prima facie evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in
control of the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either by the owner,
occupant or the person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the
others.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012) Penalty, see §
8-16
§ 8-4 ENFORCEMENT OF CODE.
   (a)   The Fire Marshal or his or her qualified designee shall be responsible
for the enforcement of the State Fire Prevention Code. The Fire Marshal may
detail qualified members of the Fire Department as Inspectors as shall from
time to time be necessary. To assist in the performance of the responsibilities
and duties placed upon the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, a Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department is hereby created.
   (b)   This Bureau shall operate under the supervision of the Fire Marshal.
The Fire Marshal shall be the administrator of the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
The Fire Marshal shall be responsible for the direct administration and
enforcement of the State Fire Prevention Code. The Fire Marshal may also
designate such number of technical inspectors as shall from time to time be
authorized by the Town Manager. Such technical inspectors shall be selected
through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-5 ITEMS COVERED BY FIRE CODE.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
to enforce all laws and ordinances of the town covering the following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage, sale and use of combustible, flammable or explosive
materials;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems, and fire extinguishing equipment.
      (4)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
      (5)   The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire, from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate, from time to time, for any purpose;
      (6)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires;
      (7)   The maintenance of fire cause and loss records; and
      (8)   Parking in areas designated as “no parking” areas at fire hydrants
and fire lanes.
   (b)   They shall have such other powers and perform such other duties that
may be set forth in other sections of this chapter, and as may be conferred and
imposed from time to time by law. The Fire Marshal may delegate any powers or
duties under this chapter to the Assistant Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-6 INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED.
   The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall investigate the cause, origin and
circumstances of every fire occurring in the town by which property has been
destroyed or damaged and, so far as possible, shall determine whether the fire
is the result of carelessness or design. Such investigations shall begin
immediately upon the occurrence of such a fire. The Fire Marshal shall take
charge immediately of the physical evidence, shall notify the proper
authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matters, and
shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of evidence and
in the prosecution of the case. Every fire shall be reported in writing to the
Fire Marshal within three days after the occurrence of the same by the Fire
Department officer in whose jurisdiction such a fire has occurred. Such report
shall be in such form as shall be prescribed by the Fire Marshal and shall
contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause, origin and
circumstances of such fire; the extent of the damage thereof and the insurance
upon such property; and such other information as may be required, including
the injury, death or rescue of persons.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-7 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS.
   Before permits may be issued as required by this code, the Fire Marshal or
the Fire Marshal’s assistants shall inspect and approve the receptacles,
processes, vehicles, buildings or storage places to be used for any such
purposes.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-8 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS OF PREMISES.
   (a)   The Fire Marshal shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises
on a periodic basis, and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the
enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and for safeguarding
of life and property from fire.
   (b)   In accordance with § 106 of Volume V, the State Fire Prevention Code,
the following inspection schedule for the town is adopted: Once every year:
hazardous, institutional, high rise, assembly and residential except one- and
two-family dwelling units of multifamily occupancies, educational except public
schools and industrial, business, mercantile, storage, churches and synagogues.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-9 REMOVAL OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   (a)   Whenever any Inspector, as defined above, shall find in any building,
or upon any premises or other places, combustible or explosive matter or
dangerous accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper,
boxes, shavings or any highly flammable materials especially liable to fire,
and which is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find obstructions to
or on fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows liable to interfere
with the operations of the Fire Department or egress of occupants in case of
fire, the inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied; and such
order shall forthwith be complied with by the owner or occupant of such
premises or buildings, subject to the appeals procedure provided for in the
State Fire Prevention Code.
   (b)   Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a
reasonable period after the service of the order shall be liable for penalties
as hereinafter provided.
   (c)   The service of such order may be made upon the occupant of the
premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of same to such
occupant personally, or leaving it with any person in charge of the premises,
or, in case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises.
Whenever it may be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of premises,
such order may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a
copy of the order, or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the
officer making the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner’s
last known post office address.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-10 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The Fire Marshal shall compile and keep a record of all fires and of all the
facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths, rescue of persons and
statistics as to the extent of such fire and the damage caused thereby, and
whether such losses were covered by insurance, and if so, in what amount. Such
record shall be made daily from the reports made by the technical inspectors
under the provisions of this section. All such records shall be public.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-11 ANNUAL REPORT REQUIRED.
   The Fire Marshal shall make an annual report of the activities of the Bureau
of Fire Prevention and shall transmit this report to the Town Manager. The
report shall contain all proceedings under the State Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-12 RESPONSIBILITY FOR RECOMMENDED CHANGES TO THE CODE.
   The Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal shall recommend any amendments to the
State Fire Prevention Code or ordinance which shall be desirable.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-13 PROVISION APPLICATION.
   The provisions of the State Fire Prevention Code shall apply equally to both
public and private property, and it shall apply to all structures and their
occupancies except as otherwise specified.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-14 PRESERVATION/PROTECTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE.
   This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the town
for the preservation and protection of the public health, peace, safety and
welfare; and all the provisions of the State Fire Prevention Code shall be
liberally construed for that purpose.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-15 BONFIRES, RUBBISH FIRES AND CHARCOAL GRILLS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kindle or maintain any bonfire
or rubbish fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on the
beaches or sand dunes of the town without the approval of the Fire Marshal.
   (b)   There shall be no charcoal grills permitted on the beach, sand dunes
or within ten feet of combustible material. Other grills may be used with the
approval of the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012) Penalty, see §
8-16
§ 8-16 VIOLATION REMEDIES.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the State Fire
Prevention Code or shall fail to comply therewith or shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder or shall build in violation of any
details, statements, specifications or plans submitted or approved thereunder
or shall operate not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate,
permit or approval issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken or
who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the Fire
Marshal or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein
shall severally for each and every violation and noncompliance, respectively,
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court. The imposition of a penalty for any violation
shall not excuse the violation, nor shall the violation be permitted to
continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, the application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
§ 8-17 AUTHORITY FOR FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Board of Aldermen may establish a schedule of fees for the permits,
certificates, approvals and other functions performed under this code and shall
be payable to the town. Such fees shall accompany each application for the
permit, approval, certificate or other fee-related code provisions.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 6-7-2012)
CHAPTER 9: RESERVED
CHAPTER 10: PARKS AND RECREATION
 Section
Article I. In General
   
10-1   Regulation of surfers
   
10-2   Purpose
   
10-3   Regulation of parks and recreation facilities
   
10-4   Additional provisions
   
10-5   Declaration of closed park or recreation facility
   
10-6   Rules and regulations set by the town
   
10-7   Violation
   10-8 – 10-19   Reserved
Article II. Beaches
Division 1. Generally
   
10-20   Certain activities on beaches prohibited
   
10-21   Regulating activities near sandbag revetments and geotextiles tubes
   
10-22   Authority of police officers as to swimmers
   
10-23   Digging of holes on beach strand
   
10-24   Unattended beach equipment prohibitied
   
10-25   Placing obstructions on beach
   
10-26   Penalties
   10-27 – 10-29   Reserved
Division 2. Motor-Driven Vehicles and Horses on Dunes and Beaches
   
10-30   Purpose
   
10-31   Definitions
   
10-32   Beach access driving regulations
   
10-33   Commercial fishermen
   
10-34   Permit requirements
   
10-35   Closing the beach strand
   
10-36   Vehicles for disabled persons
   
10-37   Sport fishermen
   
10-38   Fee schedule
   
10-39   Penalty
Article III. Boat and Water Safety
   
10-40   Operation of boats in manner endangering bathers
   
10-41   Operation of motorboats and the like in reckless manner
   
10-42   Operation of motorboats and the like while intoxicated
   
10-43   Operation of jet skis
Article IV. Sand Dune Protection
   
10-44   Findings of fact and purpose
   
10-45   Conflicts with state rules
   
10-46   Territorial applicability
   
10-47   Exemptions
   
10-48   Enforcement
   
10-49   Damaging sand dunes
   
10-50   Repairing damage caused by violations
   
10-51   Criminal penalty
   
10-52   Civil penalty
   
10-53   Severability
   
10-54   Beach vitex prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Beach vendors, see §
4-35
   Posting signs prohibiting carrying concealed weapons in parks, see §
6.5-1
   Vehicles and boats, see
Chapter 12
Statutory reference:
   Boating safety, see G.S. §§ 75A-1 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 10-1 REGULATION OF SURFERS.
   (a)   Surfing shall be permitted within the town limits except in those
areas located 300 feet on either side of any pier located within the town.
   (b)   All surfers, while engaged in the act of surfing, shall have their
surfboards attached to them by a surfer’s leash.
   (c)   Unless otherwise authorized by the County Park and Recreation
Director, surfing is prohibited in front of regional access areas maintained by
the county.
   (d)   Violation of this section shall be subject to a fine up to $500 or up
to six months in jail or both in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 9-4-1991; Ord. passed 8-6-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Surfboards generally, see G.S. §§ 75A-10, 75A-13
§ 10-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the public
health, safety and welfare in respect to the recreational activities, programs
and facilities of the town. This chapter is designed to maximize the enjoyment
of recreation in the town’s recreation facilities and programs and offer
protection from conditions which could harm, injure or offend any group or
individual.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002)
§ 10-3 REGULATION OF PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person in any park, recreation area,
playground, ball field, picnic shelter or any other recreation facility and the
parking facilities thereof, owned or controlled by the town to:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, display or
remove any structure, equipment, facilities or other property, either real or
personal;
      (2)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant, injure
the bark, pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant, to dig or otherwise
disturb grass areas in any other way or injure or impair the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area;
      (3)   Dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, charcoal,
gas, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, wastes, garbage or refuse or other
trash;
      (4)   Fail to obey all police officers and recreational personnel or
volunteers, as appointed by the Town Manager or his or her designee;
      (5)   Park any motor vehicle in areas other than established or
designated parking areas;
      (6)   Drive any motor vehicle on any area except the parking areas or
such other areas as may be specifically designated by the Town Manager, or his
or her designee. No motorcycles, minibikes, trail bikes, dirt bikes, go-carts,
all-terrain vehicles or like motorized vehicles are allowed on park property
except for parking in designated parking areas only;
      (7)   Allow or permit any dogs or other animals to run at large or to
leave any excrement from such animal on any area of the park or recreational
facility;
      (8)   Violate the regulation that use of the individual gazebo or picnic
shelter, together with tables and benches, follows generally the rule of “first
come, first served,” unless a reservation has been issued according to
regulations as adopted by the Board of Aldermen;
      (9)   Leave a picnic area or shelter before the grill is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in receptacles provided. If no such
receptacles are available, then refuse and trash shall be carried away from the
park area by the user to be properly disposed of elsewhere;
      (10)   No adults shall use the gazebo as a fishing pier. Children 12 and
under (accompanied by an adult) will be permitted to fish. Due to sanitary and
safety concerns, there will be no cleaning of fish on the gazebo or walkway to
the gazebo;
      (11)   No person shall set up tents, shacks or any other temporary
shelter for the purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in any
park after closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or
that could be used for such purpose, such as a camper/trailer, house trailer or
the like;
      (12)   Bring, have in his or her possession, set off or otherwise cause
to explode, discharge or burn any firecrackers, other fireworks, explosives or
nonexplosives, such as sparklers, or discharge them or throw them into any such
area from land or highway adjacent thereto;
      (13)   Build or attempt to build a fire except when using the grill to
cook. No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning
cigarettes or cigars or other flammable material within any park area or on any
highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto;
      (14)   Sleep or protractedly lounge on the seats, benches, floors or
other area, or engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to be
a breach of the public peace;
      (15)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any other person or party
occupying any area, or participating in any authorized activity;
      (16)   Sell food, beverages or merchandise or solicit donations for any
individual, group, club, company or corporation;
      (17)   Carry, use or possess firearms or dangerous weapons of any nature
within any park, provided; however, this section shall not apply to law
enforcement officers when engaged in the discharge of their duties;
      (18)   Enter, use or remain within any park between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 8:00 a.m., unless a town sponsored event is delayed or a written
permit therefor has been obtained from the Town Manager or his or her designee;
      (19)   Bring upon, possess, consume or display any beer, wine, whiskey or
other intoxicating liquor or beverage or controlled substances or the
containers thereof within the confines of any park and recreation areas. It
shall be prohibited for a person under the influence of alcohol or any
controlled substance to enter or remain in a recreation facility or program and
such person or persons shall immediately leave upon the request of a police
officer, recreation personnel, designated volunteers or other persons
specified; and/or
      (20)   Leave a boat, kayak, jet-ski or any other personal watercraft tied
to any town-owned dock, pier, or gazebo for any length of time.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to any town authorized sales at the
central building on the town park lot pursuant to §
4-1(a) of this code.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002; Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-6-2014; Ord. 2017-9, passed 9-6-
2017) Penalty, see §
10-7
§ 10-4 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   No open fires are allowed. All fires must be contained in grills
provided by the town.
   (b)   Flagrant misuse of parks and recreational facilities will result in
forfeiture of future use and reservation privileges.
   (c)   The Town Manager and the Recreation and Appearance Committee have the
authority and responsibility to recommend rules and regulations governing the
use and maintenance of parks and recreational facilities to the Board of
Aldermen for their consideration. Such rules and regulations become effective
as adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (d)   Any requests for special events or use of the parks and recreational
facilities shall be presented to and approved by the Town Manager or his or her
designee. If these requests are approved, a permit will be issued and any fees
will be assessed by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002) Penalty, see §
10-7
§ 10-5 DECLARATION OF CLOSED PARK OR RECREATION FACILITY.
   Any section or part of any park, recreation area or facility may be declared
closed to the public by the town at any time and for any interval of time,
either temporarily or at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and
closed to certain uses.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002)
§ 10-6 RULES AND REGULATIONS SET BY THE TOWN.
   (a)   Users of all parks and recreation facilities shall adhere to not only
this section, but also to any rules and regulations set by the town and
Recreation and Appearance Committee as adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (b)   The Town Manager or his or her designee and any authorized town
employee and any law enforcement agency shall have the authority to eject from
any recreation facility, any person acting in violation of this section, or in
violation of other rules and regulations enacted pursuant to this section by
the Recreation and Appearance Committee as adopted by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002)
§ 10-7 VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $150, or imprisonment
for not more than 30 days or both, in the discretion of the court, as provided
by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2002)
§ 10-8 – 10-19 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. BEACHES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 10-20 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES ON BEACHES PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Camping overnight on the beach or otherwise using the beach as a
domicile is hereby prohibited.
   (b)   Glass bottles or glass containers of any type are prohibited on the
beach.
   (c)   Violators of this section shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or
six months in jail or both in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 8-6-1992)
§ 10-21 REGULATING ACTIVITIES NEAR SANDBAG REVETMENTS AND GEOTEXTILE TUBES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk, run, swim, surf, or boat
or place items on any sandbag revetments, including any geotextile tubes,
located within or adjacent to the town.
   (b)   All violators shall be assessed a $100 fine per occurrence.
   (c)   This section shall not apply to any authorized, marked crossover or
designated beach access.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 2-5-2015; Ord. 2015-3, passed 3-5-2015; Ord. 2017-11,
passed 11-1- 2017)
§ 10-22 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS AS TO SWIMMERS.
   (a)   Those persons who shall be duly appointed as police officers of the
town, shall have the power and authority to supervise, regulate and/or prohibit
physical activities and swimming on the beaches and in the Atlantic Ocean and
waters of the sound, when in the estimation of those officers, hazards or
dangers exist that constitute threats to the health, life or safety of a person
or persons within the waters or immediately contiguous areas.
   (b)   Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a duty upon the police or
town officials to patrol the beaches, act as lifeguards or make such
determination on a daily basis. The town police, as well as the town assumes no
responsibility for accidents as a result of someone’s negligence.
   (c)   Any person who shall fail to obey the directions and instructions of
the personnel with regard to any of the matters and things above set forth over
which they have power and authority, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to arrest by the personnel and shall be subject to punishment as
provided in G.S. § 160A-285.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1999)
§ 10-23 DIGGING OF HOLES ON BEACH STRAND.
   (a)   To help prevent personal injury and damage to property, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the corporate limits of the
town to dig into the sand on any part of the beach strand greater than 12
inches deep, without having a responsible person attending the area to prevent
any person or persons from walking into any existing hole and risking personal
injury, and to allow public safety vehicles the ability to respond to
emergencies without risk of damage to equipment or personal property. Prior to
leaving the area and 30 minutes prior to sunset, any hole greater than 12
inches deep shall be filled to level with the surrounding area, leaving the
area in the same general condition in which it was found.
   (b)   Persons violating this section shall be cited and punished pursuant to
the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 4-5-2007)
§ 10-24 UNATTENDED BEACH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   AWNING. A roof-like covering extending over a certain area and used as a
shelter.
   BEACH EQUIPMENT. Any personal items that are designed or manufactured for
use, or actually used, on the beach or in the adjacent tidal waters. Examples
include with limitations: chairs, lounges, umbrellas, cabanas, tents, canopies
awnings, horseshoes and stakes, sailboats, kayaks, paddle vessels, sailboards,
surfboards, fishing gear, sporting equipment, rafts, flotation devices, beach
toys, baskets, bags, towels, coolers and other personal effects. BEACH
EQUIPMENT shall not include municipal trash containers, signage or structures
placed by a governmental agency, items placed by a bona fide conservation
agency or organization (such as signs or protection devices for turtle nests or
equipment approved for use by duly licensed mobile vendors).
   BEACH STRAND. The area of the beach considered public trust area.
   CABANA. A collapsible shelter resembling a cabin with at least one open
side.
   CANOPY. An omamental roof-like structure supported by more than one pole
providing shade and/or protection from weather events.
   TENT. A collapsible shelter of fabric stretched and sustained by poles and
used for camping or other recreational outdoor activities.
   UMBRELLA. A collapsible shade for protection against weather consisting of
fabric stretched over hinged ribs radiating from a center pole.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 8-7-2014)
§ 10-25 PLACING OBSTRUCTIONS ON BEACH.
   (a)    Except as provided by a specific provision of this code, all beach
equipment must be removed from the beach by its owner or permitted user on a
daily basis. All personal items and beach equipment unattended and remaining on
the beach strand between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will be classified as litter
and will be removed and disposed of by the town. This section is in effect year
round.
   (b)   A business that rents beach equipment may not place or erect said
equipment strictly for advertising purposes only. Such business shall abide by
all rules and regulations pertaining to their particular license that has been
issued and must adhere to the installation and removal policies as outlined
within this section.
   (c)   All beach equipment shall be set at least 20 feet from any sea turtle
nest. No beach equipment shall be placed seaward of a sea turtle nest for a
distance of 10 feet north and south of a direct line between the sea turtle
nest and the Atlantic Ocean.
   (d)    No beach equipment may be placed within a 25 foot perimeter of an
emergency access or any beach strand access point.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 8-7-2014; Ord. 2015-7, passed 8-6-2015)
§ 10-26 PENALTIES.
   Unless otherwise provided for, any person who shall violate this division 1.
shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount of $50 for each offense. Each
day that a person is in violation of this division 1. shall constitute a new
and separate offense.
(Ord. 2014-9, passed 8-7-2014)
§§ 10-27 – 10-29 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES AND HORSES ON DUNES AND BEACHES
§ 10-30 PURPOSE.
   In order to prevent and abate nuisances on public and private property, to
minimize the possible adverse environmental impact on dunes and vegetation, and
to supervise and regulate in the interest of public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and welfare, the Board of Aldermen enacts the provisions of this
division.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000)
§ 10-31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSWAYS. Designated points or easements where vehicles may legally travel
from public roads to the beach strand, public or private.
   BEACH STRAND. The area of the beach considered public trust area.
   COMMERCIAL FISHERMAN. A citizen who possesses a valid commercial fishing
license and related gear (at least 100 yards of net, a fishing boat and two
additional crew members).
   DISABLED PERSON. An individual who is unable to walk without the aid of
other persons or equipment and who has lost total use of either one or both
legs or a person who has been identified as disabled by the state or an agency
of another state or the federal government.
   DUNE BUGGY. A small, lightweight, open automotive vehicle equipped with
oversize, low- pressure tires for traveling along sand beaches.
   ESTUARINE AREA. The public trust area bordering the New River as measured by
the mean high water line.
   FRONTAL DUNE. The dune closest to the beach strand.
   HORSE. A solid-hoofed, herbivorous, four-legged mammal including stallions,
mares, geldings, mules, ponies, donkeys and the like, capable of being
domesticated and ridden by Homo sapiens.
   JOYRIDING. Operating a motor powered vehicle carelessly and heedlessly in
willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others and/or without
due caution and circumspection at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLE. Any vehicle capable of transporting persons or
property, consisting of four or more wheels and propelled by a gasoline,
electric or other type of motor.
   NORTH TOPSAIL BEACH. The incorporated area of the county between the
Atlantic Ocean, New River Inlet, the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and the
Surf City line.
   PERMISSIBLE DRIVING AREA. The public trust area bordering the New River that
has been designated as an area in which four-wheel drive vehicles are allowed
to drive. This area is:
      Commencing at a point in the intersection of the centerline of River Road
and the approximate mean high waterline of the New River Inlet, said point
having coordinates of North = 287928.76 and East= 2498718.99 NAD83(2011), said
point being THE TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING: thence from the above described true
point of beginning and leaving said River Road centerline and along the
approximate mean high water line the following courses and distances: South 24
degrees 53 minutes 10 seconds East 223.60 feet, South 48 degrees 55 minutes 21
seconds East 152.08 feet and South 64 degrees 46 minutes 12 seconds East 306.85
feet to a point in said approximate mean high water line, thence leaving said
approximate mean high water line South 75 degrees 54 minutes 38 seconds West
517.88 feet to a point, thence North 24 degrees 53 minutes 10 seconds West
407.95 feet to a point in the centerline of River Road, thence leaving said
centerline point North 24 degrees 53 minutes 10 seconds West 1,520.72 feet to a
post on the southern margin of the existing Bird Sanctuary, thence along said
southern margin North 64 degrees 48 minutes 20 seconds East 250.00 feet to a
point in the approximate mean high water line of New River Inlet, thence along
said approximate mean highwater line South 24 degrees 53 minutes 10 seconds
East 1429.07 feet to a point in the centerline of River Road and being the
point and place of beginning and containing 12.029 acres as surveyed by Charles
Francis Riggs, P.L.S. L-2981 on July 24, 2014. The courses contained within are
correct in angular relationship and are referenced to NAD83(2011).
   SAND DUNE AREA. Any area at North Topsail Beach landward of the mean high-
water mark on the ocean front, the intracoastal waterway, New River Inlet and
the Surf City line containing mounds of sand.
   SPORT FISHERMAN. A person possessing one or more rod and reels, bait and
tackle who is engaged in fishing as a hobby, recreation, pleasure or as a
source of diversion.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2014-8, passed 7-9-2014; Ord. 2017-6, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 10-32 BEACH ACCESS DRIVING REGULATIONS.
   (a)   No motor-driven vehicles shall be allowed on the sand dunes of North
Topsail Beach other than town, county, state or federally authorized vehicles.
The only exception is the “Permissible Driving Area.”
   (b)   Permitted vehicles shall operate only during the hours between 7:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. October 1 - March 31 and the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m. April 1 - September 30.
   (c)   Four-wheel drive vehicles only shall be allowed in the area designated
as “Permissible Driving Area.” Vehicles entering this designated area shall be
obligated to obtain an access pass. A valid hurricane re-entry pass shall be
used by current property owners to enter. To obtain passes non- residents shall
pay the daily, weekly, annual, or “early bird” fees as designated by the Board
of Aldermen in the town’s fee schedule. Vehicles entering this area without an
access pass shall be fined as designated by the Board of Aldermen in the town's
fee schedule.
   (d)   No motor-driven vehicle shall be allowed on the beach strand unless
the vehicle is a factory manufactured four-wheel drive vehicle (exception: farm
tractors used by commercial fishermen and dune buggies). Certain specialized
vehicles (see §
10-36 ) may be driven on the beach strand by disabled persons. The Police Chief
shall decide if a person is disabled according to the definition in §
10-36.
   (e)   The speed of any motor-driven vehicle operating on the beach strand at
North Topsail Beach shall not exceed ten mph.
   (f)   No motor-driven vehicle shall at any time cross to the beach strand
unless crossing is at accessways designated by the Board of Aldermen as
vehicular crossings, public or private.
   (g)   Pedestrians, swimmers and sunbathers shall have the right-of-way over
all vehicles being operated on the beach strand.
   (h)   It shall be illegal to ride or walk horses on the beach strand and
sand dune area of North Topsail Beach (unless on a public or private road,
developed lot or parking lot).
   (i)   No joyriding shall be allowed on the beach strand, sand dune area, and
on any public trust area, including the “Permissible Driving Area” of North
Topsail Beach at any time. Violation of this section shall be treated as a
civil penalty under the law and enforceable by the Police Department.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2014-8, passed 7-9-2014; Ord. 2017-5, passed 5-3-2017;
Ord. 2017-6, passed 7-5-2017; Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2017) Penalty, see §
10-39
§ 10-33 COMMERCIAL FISHERMEN.
   Upon proper showing to the Town Manager by a citizen who must use the beach
strand for commercial fishing which is his or her livelihood, the citizen may
be given permission to drive on the beach strand from the Surf City line to New
River Inlet from the day after Labor Day to March 31 of each year. All vehicles
and drivers shall conform to §
10-34.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000)
§ 10-34 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Owners of all vehicles allowed to drive on the beach strand shall
obtain a permit to do so. This permit is nontransferable and shall be affixed
to the upper right side of the vehicle’s windshield (exception: farm tractors
used by commercial fishermen and dune buggies shall affix the sticker on the
tractor or dune buggy in a place easily seen).
   (b)   All vehicles allowed to drive on the beach strand shall have valid
state licenses and registrations (exception: farm tractors). All drivers must
have a valid driver’s license.
   (c)   The owner of a permitted vehicle shall be responsible for any person
driving the vehicle on the permitted driving area or on any other area which is
a violation of this division.
   (d)   All permits to drive on the beach strand shall be issued by the Police
Department or persons designated by the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2017-6, passed 7-5-2017) Penalty, see §
10-39
§ 10-35 CLOSING THE BEACH STRAND.
   The Police Chief shall have the authority to close any part or all of the
beach to vehicular traffic if, in his or her opinion, vehicular traffic is
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of pedestrians, property or the
sand dunes.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000)
§ 10-36 VEHICLES FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding §§
10-32 and
10-34, disabled persons who have been issued a driver’s license and permanent
registration plates may operate a motorized wheelchair or other similar
vehicle, not exceeding 1,000 pounds, gross weight, as specified in G.S. § 20-
27.1, with a permit from the Police Department to operate the vehicle on the
beach. Operation is permitted only while the disabled individual is in the
vehicle. Operation shall at all times be in a safe and prudent manner, giving
way to pedestrians at all times, and giving warning before stopping, starting,
turning or backing the vehicle. Such vehicles, with permit, may operate on the
beach strand year-round.
   (b)   Factory lift vehicles of a four-wheel-drive nature are permitted if
used for disabled individuals inside Onslow County Beach Access #3.
   (c)   Full-sized, factory four-wheel drive vehicles for disabled persons can
only be operated within Onslow County Beach Access #3. Nonvehicle access to the
public beach by disabled persons is available at Onslow County Beach Access #2
and #4. In addition, beach access by vehicle for disabled persons holding a
beach driving permit from the town is allowed at the Jeffrey’s property on SR
1568, whereby full-sized, factory four-wheel drive vehicles may be driven onto
the beach at the vehicle access and thence northerly as far as Onslow County
Beach Access #4 and south as far as Ocean Sound Village/Hampton Colony property
line. Movement of the vehicle shall be solely for the purpose of locating
suitable sites for enjoyment of the public beach by disabled persons and the
operation of the vehicle shall be governed by all provisions of this division.
Onslow County Beach Access #3 shall be open year-round. The Jeffrey’s area
shall be closed to vehicles between April 1 and September 31.
   (d)   There shall be no charge for vehicle permits for disabled persons.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 2017-6, passed 7-5-2017)
§ 10-37 SPORT FISHERMEN.
   Oceanfront beach driving is prohibited except for disabled persons with
vehicles up to 1,000 pounds and vehicles belonging to licensed commercial
fishermen.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2000)
§ 10-38 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule for beach driving permits will be as follows:
   (a)   Commercial fishermen, per vehicle: $20
   (b)   Disabled individual, per vehicle: No fee.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord. passed 1-10-2000)
§ 10-39 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any section of this division 2.
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500 or by imprisonment not to exceed six months or by both. Permits shall also
be revoked for any violation of this division 2. for a period of one year.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-1991; Ord. passed 10-1-1992; Ord.
passed 1-10-2000)
ARTICLE III. BOAT AND WATER SAFETY
§ 10-40 OPERATION OF BOATS IN MANNER ENDANGERING BATHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or pilot a boat or jet ski in
the waters of the Atlantic Ocean abutting the town within 100 yards of the
shore line of the town or elsewhere along the public beach in any manner as to
create a hazard to bathers.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 10-41 OPERATION OF MOTORBOATS AND THE LIKE IN RECKLESS MANNER.
   No person shall operate any motorboat, jet ski or other vessel or manipulate
any skis, surfboard or similar device in a reckless or negligent manner so as
to endanger the life, limb or property of any person.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 10-42 OPERATION OF MOTORBOATS AND THE LIKE WHILE INTOXICATED.
   No person shall operate any motorboat, jet ski or other vessel or manipulate
any skis, surfboard or similar device when intoxicated or under the influence
of any narcotic drug, barbiturate or marijuana.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 10-43 OPERATION OF JET SKIS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any jet ski in the waters of the Atlantic
Ocean abutting the town within 100 yards of the shoreline during the period
from May 16 to September 30 of any year, except that jet skis may be launched
from and returned to the beach on a course approximately perpendicular to the
beach. When launching or returning as described above, the jet ski shall be
operated as slowly as surf conditions shall permit and in such a manner as to
avoid all swimmers or other persons in the water. For the purposes of this
article, the term JET SKI shall include wave riders and any other similar
vehicles by whatever name.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1999)
ARTICLE IV. SAND DUNE PROTECTION
§ 10-44 FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (a)   The sand dunes within the town are a topographical feature unique to
coastal areas, and are a tourist attraction as well as a protective barrier
against the dangers of wind, flood and erosion. The sand dunes make a vital
contribution to the nature and character of the town as a coastal resort
community. The town believes the sand dunes should be preserved, and
development on the sand dunes within the town controlled in a manner compatible
with their preservation.
   (b)   This article is adopted to preserve and promote the protection of the
town by maintaining the existence of natural and constructed dunes that help
protect it from the danger of flooding and erosion, and land against the
actions of sand, wind and water. The practice of destroying sand dunes and
removing vegetation therefrom within the town constitutes a serious threat to
the safety of adjacent properties. This article is therefore adopted for the
health, safety and welfare of persons living, visiting or sojourning to and in
the town, and for the protection of public and private property.
   (c)   As used in this article, the phrase SAND DUNE shall mean any and all
manmade or natural mound of sand, regardless of size. This includes, but is not
limited to, natural dunes, man-made or constructed dunes, berms, sand
formations created by a beach/dune push or scrape, individual sandbags, sandbag
walls, and sandbag revetments.
   (d)   The term FRONTAL DUNE used in this article shall refer to the first
manmade or natural mound of sand landward of the highwater mark of the Atlantic
Ocean, regardless of height or width, considered to be the first line of
defense against impending tides and/or storm surge.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. -, passed - -)
§ 10-45 CONFLICTS WITH STATE RULES.
   If any provision of this article is in conflict with a rule or regulation
adopted by the State Coastal Resources Commission dealing with oceanfront
erosion control, then the most stringent rule or regulation shall control and
apply.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. -, passed - -)
§ 10-46 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to sand dunes within the corporate limits and
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015)
§ 10-47 EXEMPTIONS.
   The town hereby encourages responsible dune management activities including
proper construction and maintenance of improved dune walkover structures, the
use of shared and/or community beach accesses, the proper installation and
maintenance of sand fencing, and planting of native, salt-tolerant dune
vegetation. Therefore, this article shall not apply to the following
activities:
   (a)   Activities authorized by the Town Manager for persons engaged in
research or conservation activities;
   (b)   Federal, state, and local officials engaged in official regulatory
activities;
   (c)   Development activities authorized or permitted by the local, state or
federal officials;
   (d)   Dune or property maintenance activities including planting or
fertilization of vegetation, sand fence installation and minor dune repairs;
and
   (e)   Activities within the developed portion of the dune system.
(Ord. passed 10-5-2022)
§ 10-48 ENFORCEMENT.
   This article shall be enforced by the local Coastal Area Management Act
(CAMA) officer and law enforcement officers of the town. If no person is
serving in the capacity of local CAMA officer, this article shall be enforced
by the Town Manager or such person as may be designated by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Coastal Area Management Act of 1974, see G.S. 113A-100 et seq.
§ 10-49 DAMAGING SAND DUNES.
   (a)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk over, cross over,
stand, sit, walk, run, or otherwise loiter upon any sand dune except to cross
at an authorized, marked crossover or designated beach access.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any items, belongings,
or beach equipment upon any dune at any time.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or remove any
sand dune or part thereof, or to kill, destroy or remove any trees, shrubbery
or other vegetation growing on sand dunes.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Vehicles on beaches, see §§
10-30 et seq.
§ 10-50 REPAIRING DAMAGE CAUSED BY VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to repair or restore dunes or vegetation
damaged by not complying with this article. Any dune-disturbing activity shall
be immediately repaired in accordance with requirements of the Coastal Area
Management Act. Failure to repair damage to dunes and vegetation shall
constitute a separate violation for each day that such failure continues after
written notification by the Town Manager or designee.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
§ 10-51 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and will be punished by a fine of up to a maximum of $500,
depending on the severity of the damage.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
§ 10-52 CIVIL PENALTY.
   If any person continues to violate or further violates any provision of this
article, that person shall be liable to the town for a civil penalty of not
less than $500.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015; Ord. passed 9-7-2022)
§ 10-53 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of this article be decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, it shall not affect the
validity of this article as a whole, or any section thereof, other than the
section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 10-1-2015)
§ 10-54 BEACH VITEX PROHIBITED.
   (a)   Because the invasive non-native plant known as beach vitex (Vitex
rotundifolia) has been found to exist on the beach, and because beach vitex
grows prolifically which kills native plants such as sea oats and bitter
panicum which protects the integrity of the beach berm, and because beach vitex
is unfriendly to nesting sea turtles and birds dependent upon this habitat, it
shall be unlawful for any person to plant or maintain beach vitex. Property
owners shall be responsible for re-establishing vegetation on the dune.
   (b)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to a civil
citation in the amount of $25 for the first offense; second offense shall
subject the offender to a civil citation in the amount of $50. After the second
offense, each day shall constitute a separate offense until compliance is met.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2024)
CHAPTER 11: ANIMALS
Section
Article I. Nondomestic Animals
   
11-1   Purpose
   
11-2   Keeping prohibited; exception
   
11-3   Filing of declaration
   
11-4   Enforcement
   
11-5   Limitations
   
11-6   Penalties
   11-7 – 11-19   Reserved
Article II. Dogs
   
11-20   Definitions
   
11-21   Appointment of animal control officer
   
11-22   Duties of animal control officer
   
11-23   Animal shelter
   
11-24   Impoundment; reclamation; final disposition
   
11-25   Rabies vaccination requirements
   
11-26   Running at large; wearing of collars, tags
   
11-27   Cruelty, abandonment
   
11-28   Maintaining a nuisance; abatement
   
11-29   Sanitation of premises
   
11-30   Interference with enforcement
   
11-31   Duty of owner to control dogs
   11-32 – 11-39   Reserved
Article III. Dangerous Animals
   
11-40   Definitions
   
11-41   Determination of animal as dangerous or potentially dangerous
   
11-42   Exceptions
   
11-43   Duties of owner of dangerous animal
   
11-44   Duties of owner of potentially dangerous animal
   
11-45   Insurance bond requirement
   
11-46   Liability of parents of minor owners
   
11-47   Penalties
Statutory reference: 
   Animal protection, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq.
   Cruelty to animals, see G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq.
   Municipal authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
   Municipal authority to regulate possession or harboring of domestic animals,
see G.S. § 160A-187
ARTICLE I. NONDOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 11-1 PURPOSE.
   This article shall regulate the possession or harboring of nondomestic
animals which are dangerous or potentially dangerous to persons or property.
§ 11-2 KEEPING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess or
harbor any nondomestic animal in the town which is dangerous to persons or
property or which has the potential of being dangerous to persons or property.
This section shall not apply to traveling zoos, petting zoos, circuses or other
traveling commercial animal exhibitions of limited duration and shall not apply
to all small native wildlife species which have been specifically permitted by
the State Wildlife Resources Commission.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1983) Penalty, see §
11-6
§ 11-3 FILING OF DECLARATION.
   It shall be the responsibility of any owner or keeper of a nondomestic
animal to provide his or her name and address and to make a complete and
explicit declaration of such animal with the Animal Control Office within 30
days of the adoption of this code. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
or keeper of the animal to amend the declaration whenever a change occurs in
ownership, status or collection of animals within 30 days of the date of the
change.
§ 11-4 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Animal Control Officers of the county shall be responsible for
maintaining a current and accurate record of the names and addresses of all
owners or keepers of nondomestic animals in the town from the information
contained in the declarations required in § 11-3. The declarer shall be
responsible for informing the Animal Control Office of any change outlined in §
11-3 within 30 days of the date of the change. Such records shall be kept in
the files at the Animal Control Office. The Animal Control Officers shall
enforce the provisions of Article I, by appropriate prosecution in the district
court division of the general court of justice.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1999)
§ 11-5 LIMITATIONS.
   Any individual who is the owner or keeper of a nondomestic animal at the
time of the adoption of this code shall not be affected by the prohibition of
possessing or harboring a nondomestic animal. All other provisions of this
article shall apply. Neither this limitation, nor any other provision of this
article, however, shall have the effect of permitting any activity or condition
with respect to a wild animal which is prohibited or more severely restricted
by regulations of the Wildlife Resources Commission.
§ 11-6 PENALTIES.
   Any violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor, and any person
convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Each day’s violation of this article is a separate offense. In addition,
enforcement of this article may be by appropriate equitable remedy, injunction
or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction or other
remedy provided for in G.S. § 153A-123.
§§ 11-7 – 11-19 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DOGS
§ 11-20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. Allowing a dog or puppy to provide its own resources in finding
shelter, food or water; leaving a dog or puppy for more than 36 hours without
human attention or supervision.
   DOG. A male, female or neutered DOG of any age.
   HABITUAL. Repeated.
   HARBORING. Either actively or passively allowing a dog to stay on property;
providing food or water or shelter.
   OWNER. A person owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
Statutory reference:
   Dogs, see G.S. §§ 67-1 et seq.
§ 11-21 APPOINTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   Subject to the approval and budgetary controls of the Board of Aldermen, the
Health Director is authorized to appoint and supervise one or more Animal
Control Officers.
§ 11-22 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (a)   The Animal Control Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement
within the town of all public and public-local laws pertaining to the ownership
and control of dogs and shall cooperate with all other law enforcement officers
operating within the town in fulfilling this responsibility.
   (b)   The Animal Control Officer shall also serve as Rabies Control Officer.
He or she will implement and enforce the provisions of the state rabies law
found in G.S. Ch. 130A, including but not limited to the following activities:
      (1)   Collect and impound stray dogs;
      (2)   Canvass areas of the town for vaccination of dogs;
      (3)   Assist practicing veterinarians in the town in conducting rabies
clinics;
      (4)   Maintain the animal shelter, including records of impounded,
destroyed, reclaimed and adopted dogs;
      (5)   Provide at the end of each day, upon request, a list containing
complete descriptions of all dogs impounded;
      (6)   Investigate dog bite cases to ascertain confinement or isolation
(based on findings) of the biting dog for a minimum of ten to 14 days
observation period for the protection of human victims in the possibility of a
rabies infected animal; and
      (7)   Investigate reports of cruelty or abuse with regard to animals.
§ 11-23 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (a)   The county maintains an animal shelter facility in conjunction with
the City of Jacksonville for the purpose of impounding lost, strayed, abandoned
or unwanted dogs within the town. These dogs are to be held a minimum of five
working days. The Animal Control Officer will use every reasonable effort to
locate and inform the owner of these animals.
   (b)   The animal shelter may be used for the confinement of a dog following
a biting incident or when it becomes vicious or a menace to the public health
and the owner does not have a secure place in which to quarantine the animal
for the appropriate time of observation.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1999)
§ 11-24 IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION; FINAL DISPOSITION.
   (a)   Each animal impounded pursuant to §
11-23 shall be identified by permanent records which indicate:
      (1)   Date of impoundment;
      (2)   Reason for impoundment;
      (3)   Sex;
      (4)   Color;
      (5)   General description;
      (6)   Breed;
      (7)   Method of acquisition;
      (8)   Identification marks or characteristics; and
      (9)   Note the presence of tattoos on the dog’s ear, jowl, thigh or other
parts of the body.
   (b)   Any animal impounded which can be traced to its legal owner will be
returned to its owner unless otherwise so provided for by the owner in writing.
If the ownership of an animal can be determined, the owner will be notified
that the animal is in the custody of the Animal Control Officer. Upon payment
of the current impoundment fee, daily maintenance fee and any required
vaccination fees, the animal shall be returned to its owner.
   (c)   Any animal which cannot be traced to its legal owner may, after a
minimum detainment of five working days, be placed in an adoptive home or
subjected to a humane method of euthanasia. No animal may be released from the
shelter, either for sale or donation, to research laboratories or related
facilities, as breeding stock for puppy mills or wholesalers for further
resale, for use in any illegal entrapment or fighting or for human consumption.
A permanent record describing the final disposition of an animal, date, names
and addresses where applicable and subsequent fees paid shall be kept at all
times. Moneys received from fines, fees or adoptive placement will be turned
over to the Town Manager for deposit to the Town General Fund.
   (d)   When an animal is presented by the Animal Control Officer of the town
to an attending veterinarian and when in the professional judgement of that
attending veterinarian the animal should be humanely euthanized because it is
suffering from disease and/or injury, then the attending veterinarian in taking
action to euthanize the animal shall be acting as an agent for the town and
shall not be held professionally liable for his or her decision to euthanize.
This policy of indemnification shall only be in effect when the attending
veterinarian is acting or performing services in exchange for no remuneration.
§ 11-25 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or have in his or her
custody or control for longer than 14 days a dog four months old or older
unless such dog has been vaccinated with rabies vaccine, approved by the United
States Department of Agriculture and the State Department of Agriculture, and
the State Commission for Health Services. A certificate must be signed by a
licensed veterinarian specifying the vaccine used, the rabies tag number, the
sex and breed of the dog and name of the owner. Each vaccinated dog shall be
issued, as evidence of vaccination, a rabies tag by the veterinarian.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 11-26 RUNNING AT LARGE; WEARING OF COLLARS, TAGS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such animal to
be at large in the town or on any town property.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any dog to fail to remove feces deposited by the dog on any street,
sidewalk, park or other publicly owned area.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any dog to fail to remove feces deposited by the dog on any private
property unless the owner of the property has given permission allowing such
use of the property.
   (d)   It is required that all dogs and cats shall wear a collar or harness
with rabies tags affixed for the purpose of verification of vaccination.
Permanent markings such as tattoos will be recognized as an identification
method.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 11-27 CRUELTY, ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with §
1-5 to intentionally dump, dispose, turn free or abandon any dog or puppy for
the purpose of total abandonment within the town. With the exception of law
enforcement officers in the performance of their duties, a person is guilty of
a misdemeanor who maliciously kills, maims or wounds, or beats an animal which
is the property of others, or who having charge or custody of an animal as
owner or otherwise, tortures, deprives of necessary sustenance, drink or
shelter, beats, mutilates or kills an animal or inflicts unnecessary cruelty
upon an animal. For purposes of this section, the words DOG SHELTER shall mean
an area sufficient in size to contain a constrained dog in a normal sitting,
standing, turning, stretching and sleeping position. The area must have sides,
a leakproof roof and be structurally sound to give protection from the
elements. The ground, base or foundation on which the dog must stand or rest,
must be well-drained and not subject to flooding or continuous wet or muddy
conditions.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 11-28 MAINTAINING A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (a)   Any person keeping or harboring within the limits of the town one or
more dogs which by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining cause a
disturbance to neighboring residents, or cause destruction or damage to
another’s property, and thereby hinder or interfere with the reasonable use
and/or enjoyment of the property of neighboring residents shall be construed to
be maintaining a nuisance.
   (b)   No owner of any female dog in heat shall keep the same within the town
during such period, except when securely confined to the premises of the owner
or other person with such person’s consent, and to allow a female dog in heat
to run at large shall make the owner guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
   (c)   Any person keeping within the boundaries of the town, one or more
dogs, and who fails to maintain his or her premises or enclosure in a sanitary
condition and thereby creates obnoxious odors or serious annoyance to the
neighboring residents shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
   (d)   Upon filing of a signed complaint by a resident with the nuisance
described by the complainant, the Animal Control Officer shall investigate the
complaint. If through investigation these complaints are substantiated, he or
she shall request that the nuisance be corrected within a 24-hour period. The
Animal Control Officer will make a return visit to determine whether the
initial cause for complaint has been corrected and may then institute proper
legal procedures if the nuisance has not been abated.
   (e)   Any owner of a dog, or any person harboring a dog, found violating any
provisions of this section shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance, which
constitutes a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with §
1-5.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog under his
or her ownership or control to be on any property, public or private, not owned
by such person, unless such person shall have in his or her possession a device
for the removal of any excrement which might be deposited by such animal. Any
person who owns or controls a dog which deposits excrement upon any property,
public or private, shall promptly remove such excrement to a proper receptacle
located on property owned or possessed by such person.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 11-29 SANITATION OF PREMISES.
   Any person keeping within the corporate limits of the city one or more dogs
and who fails to maintain his or her premises or enclosure in a sanitary
condition and thereby creates obnoxious odors or serious annoyance to the
neighboring residents shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 11-30 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   The Police Department of the town or the animal control officer of
Onslow County shall enforce the provisions of article II. Enforcement shall be
accomplished in accordance with the ordinances of the town and all applicable
state statutes.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
molest any Animal Control Officer, veterinarian or agent of the Health
Department engaged in the performance of duty authorized by this article, or to
seek to release any animal in the custody of such persons, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
(Ord. passed 11-4-1999)
§ 11-31 DUTY OF OWNER TO CONTROL DOGS.
   (a)   All dogs within the territorial boundaries of the town or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall remain under their owners’ or custodians’
immediate control.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE CONTROL BY THE OWNER OR
CUSTODIAN shall be construed to mean:
      (1)   Restrained upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog
either by being tied, chained, within the confines of a fence designed to
restrain the dog, or an electronic operated, invisible fence sufficient to
restrain the dog upon the property of the owner or custodian; or
      (2)   While being walked or exercised off the premises or property of the
owner or custodian, the dog must be restrained by a leash connected to a collar
or harness, sufficient to restrain the dog from breaking loose, the leash to be
not longer than 25 feet in length (retractable).
   (c)   The provisions of subsection (b)(1) above shall be enforced in the
same manner, using the process outlined in §
11-28.
   (d)   A first and second violation of Article II, shall be treated as a
civil penalty under this code of ordinances. (See §
1-5). All third and subsequent violations of Article II, by an owner shall be
treated as a criminal penalty under this code of ordinances. (See §
1-5).
(Ord. passed 9-2-1993; Ord. passed 11-4-1999) Penalty, see §
1-5
§§ 11-32 – 11-39 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 11-40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal which, according to the records of the appropriate
authority, has inflicted or caused, directly or indirectly, severe injury on a
human being without provocation on public or private property;
      (2)   Any animal which, while off the owner’s property, kills or severely
injures a domestic animal without provocation; or
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of animal fighting or any animal trained for animal fighting.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
harboring or taking care of any animal. The OWNER is responsible for the care,
actions and behavior of his or her animal. If the OWNER or keeper of any animal
is a minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be held liable for
noncompliance with the provisions of this article.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person
upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private property in a menacing
fashion or apparent attitude of attack;
      (2)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise threaten the safety of human
beings or domestic animals; or
      (3)   Guard or attack dogs.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in serious bodily harm,
including, but not limited to lacerations, puncture wounds or broken bones.
Such injury may be the direct result of an animal attack or indirect, such as
an injury sustained in an attempt by a human to avoid a dangerous or vicious
animal.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate the possession or harboring of dangerous
animals, see G.S. § 153A-131
§ 11-41 DETERMINATION OF ANIMAL AS DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS.
   (a)   Any of the characteristics in §
11-40 automatically characterize an animal as dangerous, and no hearing is
required. If any owner disagrees with the facts used to designate the animal as
dangerous, he or she may request a hearing under the provisions of subsections
(c) through (e) below.
   (b)   Any of the characteristics in §
11-40 automatically characterize an animal as potentially dangerous. A record
of each animal characterized as potentially dangerous, including the name and
address of the owner, and the breed and age of the animal shall be kept with
the Health Director. Such animals must be confined or leashed at all times.
Upon receipt of three affidavits of complaint against a potentially dangerous
animal, signed by one or more residents of the town made under oath before an
individual authorized by law to take sworn statements, setting forth the nature
and the date of the act, the owner of the animal, the address of the owner and
the description of the animal doing such act, the designation of such
potentially dangerous animal shall automatically be changed to dangerous.
   (c)   A determination hearing shall be conducted by the Health Director
whenever there is cause to believe that an animal may be a dangerous animal.
The hearing shall be conducted within five days of serving notice to the owner
by certified letter. Pending the outcome of such a hearing, the animal must be
securely confined in a humane manner either on the premises of the owner, with
a licensed veterinarian or with the Animal Control Officer.
   (d)   The Health Director shall determine whether to declare the animal to
be a dangerous animal based upon evidence and testimony presented at the time
of the hearing by the owner, witnesses to any incident which may be considered
germane to such a determination, Health Department personnel, police or any
other person possessing information pertinent to such determination.
   (e)   The Health Director or the Director’s authorized agent shall issue
written findings within five workdays after the determination hearing. The
owner or possessor of the animal found to be dangerous by the hearing has the
right to appeal the decision within three workdays of receiving such decision
to the Board of Health.
§ 11-42 EXCEPTIONS.
   No animal may be declared dangerous if the threat, injury or damage was
sustained by a person who at the time was committing a willful trespass or
other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal, or
if such person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or has in the past been
observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the animal
or was committing or attempting to commit a crime. Neither shall an animal be
declared dangerous if, while under control of a qualified trainer, in use for
public law enforcement, it inflicts damage upon a person who is committing a
crime.
§ 11-43 DUTIES OF OWNER OF DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (a)   The owner of an animal involved in an unprovoked attack causing fatal
or severe injury to a person shall surrender the animal for impoundment, and
after the ten-day holding period the animal shall be humanely euthanized.
   (b)   The owner of an animal involved in a nonfatal or nonsevere bite shall
surrender the animal for ten calendar days for rabies observation, an exception
being wild or exotic animals which shall be destroyed and examined for rabies,
in accordance with existing rabies control law.
   (c)   Owners of animals determined dangerous by definition or by hearing
outlined above shall observe the following.
      (1)   The owner shall meet all requirements for keeping any animal such
as licensing, registration and rabies inoculation and provide the Health
Director with a record of each animal characterized as dangerous, including the
name and address of the owner and the breed and age of the animal. The owner
shall be responsible for keeping this record current. Such animals must be
confined or leashed at all times.
      (2)   A dangerous animal shall wear an identifying collar and be
permanently marked by a tattoo as prescribed by the Health Director on the
inside left flank.
      (3)   While on the owner’s property a dangerous animal must be securely
confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel suitable to
prevent entry or reaching through of young children and designed to prevent the
animal from escaping. The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with an
area or perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides at least six
feet in height; a secure top attached to all sides; the sides must be either
buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad or securely
attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must be locked. The enclosure
must also provide protection from the elements for the animal and have a ground
area of at least five feet by 20 feet. The owner or keeper shall display a sign
on his or her premises warning that there is a dangerous animal on the
property. This sign shall be visible and capable of being read from the public
highway or thoroughfare. A sign measuring 12 by 18 inches with prominent words
“Beware of Dangerous Animal” will suffice.
      (4)   A dangerous animal may be off the owner’s premises if it is muzzled
to prevent it from biting and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not
exceeding three feet in length and under the control of a responsible adult.
The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration. If a dangerous animal escapes its
confinement or frees itself from its owner, an Animal Control Officer or other
law enforcement officer is authorized to destroy the animal on the spot, if in
his or her judgment the animal cannot be safely captured without causing harm
to the officer or the public. The officer shall not be held liable for the loss
of the animal.
      (5)   The owner must allow officers of the Animal Control Department to
make whatever inquiries are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with these
provisions, including inspection of the owner’s premises where the dangerous
animal is confined.
      (6)   If the owner of the animal that has been designated dangerous is
unwilling or unable to comply with the above regulations for keeping such an
animal then he or she must have the animal humanely euthanized by the Animal
Control Department or a licensed veterinarian after a holding period of ten
calendar days. All costs shall be borne by the owner.
      (7)   The owner of a dangerous animal, and if the owner is a minor, the
parent or guardian, shall be responsible for compliance with the specifications
of this article for care, confinement and restraint of the animal and shall
also be liable for all injuries and property damage sustained by any person or
domestic animal caused by an unprovoked attack by the animal. This includes all
medical and health care costs.
      (8)   The owner shall notify the Animal Control Department of any change
in status of the dangerous animal immediately of learning that it is loose,
unconfined, has attacked another person or domestic animal, or has died, or has
been sold or given away. The name, address and telephone number of the new
owner must be provided.
Penalty, see §
11-47
§ 11-44 DUTIES OF OWNER OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (a)   The owner of an animal involved in a nonfatal or nonsevere bite shall
surrender the animal for rabies observation, an exception being wild or exotic
animals, which shall be destroyed and examined for rabies, in accordance with
existing rabies control law.
   (b)   The owner of an animal determined potentially dangerous by definition
or by hearing outlined above shall observe the following: The owner shall
notify the Animal Control Department of any change in status of the potentially
dangerous animal within 24 hours of learning that it is loose, unconfined, has
attacked another person or domestic animal, or has died or has been sold or
given away. The name, address and telephone number of the new owner must be
provided.
Penalty, see §
11-47
§ 11-45 INSURANCE BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Within ten calendar days after the first conviction of a violation of this
article, the owner or keeper of a dangerous animal shall present to the town
proof that the owner or keeper has procured liability insurance in the amount
of at least $50,000, covering a 12-month period. This policy shall contain a
provision requiring the town to be named as an additional insured for the sole
purpose that the town is to be notified by the insurance company of any
cancellation, termination or expiration of the policy. Failure to provide
evidence of such insurance shall be a violation of this article.
Penalty, see §
11-47
§ 11-46 LIABILITY OF PARENTS OF MINOR OWNERS.
   If the owner or keeper of a dangerous animal within the town is a minor, the
parent or guardian of that minor shall be responsible for compliance with the
requirements of this article and shall be liable for injuries and damages
sustained by any person or domestic animal caused by an unprovoked attack by
the animal. The parent or guardian is responsible for all provisions of this
article.
§ 11-47 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Violation of any of the provisions of this article by any person shall
constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, a violation shall be punished by
fine not to exceed $5,000, by imprisonment not exceeding two years, or both, in
the discretion of the court as provided in G.S. §§ 14-3 and 130A-25. Each
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (b)   Violation of any of the provisions of this article in which it is
found by the court that any dangerous animal has, when unprovoked, attacked,
assaulted, wounded, bitten or otherwise injured or killed a human being, shall
cause such finding to be considered an aggravating factor by the court in
determination of penalty. Upon determination solely made by the Health Director
that such an aggravating factor exists, the dangerous animal or potentially
dangerous animal may be destroyed at the discretion of the Health Director,
except for wild or exotic animals, which shall be destroyed and examined for
rabies in accordance with existing rabies control law.
   (c)   A second aggravating factor in the determination by the court of
penalty shall be the continued owning or keeping of a dangerous or potentially
dangerous animal which has in the past attacked, assaulted, wounded, bitten,
killed or otherwise injured a human being.
   (d)   If any dangerous or potentially dangerous animal shall, when
unprovoked, kill, wound or worry or assist in killing or wounding any domestic
animal or pet, while off of its owner’s or keeper’s property, such shall
constitute a violation of this article punishable as set forth in subsection
(a) above. Also, if the Health Director makes a sole determination that such
has in fact occurred, the owner or keeper of the animal shall be subject to the
possibility of the confiscation by the Health Director of the animal. The
Health Director is therefore empowered, at his or her discretion, to
confiscate; and, after the expiration of a waiting period of ten calendar days,
exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, may destroy the dangerous animal,
an exception being wild or exotic animals, which shall be destroyed and
examined for rabies in accordance with existing rabies control law.
   (e)   None of the penalties or remedies herein contained shall limit the
authority of the Health Director to exercise any of the remedies otherwise
provided for under G.S. §§ 130A-17 et seq.
CHAPTER 12: VEHICLES AND BOATS
Section
Article I. Abandoned Vehicles and Boats
Division 1. Generally
   
12-1   Definitions
   
12-2   Immunity
   
12-3   Exceptions
   
12-4   Abandonment prohibited
   
12-5   Duty of owner
   
12-6   Failure of owner to remove
   
12-7   Removal authorized
   
12-8   Notice of removal
   
12-9   Redemption
   12-10 – 12-19   Reserved
Division 2. Sale, Disposal of Abandoned Vehicles
   
12-20   Authorized
   
12-21   Disposition as junk
   
12-22   Sale at auction
   
12-23   Notice of sale
   
12-24   Redemption
   
12-25   Disposition of proceeds
   
12-26   Issuance of title certificate
   12-27 – 12-29   Reserved
Division 3. Sale, Disposal of Junked Vehicles
   
12-30   Authorized
   
12-31   Notice
   
12-32   Disposition of proceeds
   12-33 – 12-39   Reserved
Division 4. Removal and Disposition of Vehicles Declared to be Public Nuisances
   
12-40   Definitions
   
12-41   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
12-42   Removal of vehicle – Pretowing requirements
   
12-43   Same – Post-towing notice requirements
   
12-44   Sale of vehicle – Right to probable cause hearing before sale
   
12-45   Same – Procedure for unclaimed vehicles
   
12-46   Same – Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
12-47   Immunity
   
12-48   Exceptions
   
12-49   Reserved
Division 5. Abandoned/Junked Vessels, Generally
   
12-50   Purpose
   
12-51   Authority; scope
   
12-52   Definitions
   
12-53   Anchoring; docking; mooring: interference with navigation
   
12-54   Junked vessels prohibited
   
12-55   Abandoned vessels prohibited
   
12-56   Discharge prohibited
   12-57 – 12-59   Reserved
Division 6. Enforcement Responsibility and Authority for Abandoned/Junked
Vessels
   
12-60   Enforcement responsibility and authority
   
12-61   Penalties for violations
   
12-62   Disposition/disposal of abandoned vessels
   
12-63   Severability
   12-64 – 12-69   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle ordinances, see G.S. §§ 160A-303, 160A-303.2
   Nuisance abatement, see G.S. § 160A-193
ARTICLE I. ABANDONED VEHICLES AND BOATS
Editor’s Note:
   This article is derived from an ordinance adopted June 5, 1991. The
following statement was included with the ordinance:
      “Section 1-7 of Division 1. and Sections 1-3 of Division 3. of this
article [§§
12-1 –
12-7,
12-30 –
12-32] do not apply when the vehicle does not display a license plate and the
vehicle identification numbers have been removed or defaced so as to be
illegible. Such vehicles may be destroyed or sold at private sale (without
regard to value) after being held for 48 hours.”
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
  § 12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle which also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $500; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-2 IMMUNITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned, lost
or stolen motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this
article.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-3 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in the provisions of this article shall apply to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being
operated in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the
operation of the enterprise, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place
or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-4 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle coming under the provisions of this
article within the town; and no person shall leave or allow to remain any
abandoned, junked or otherwise discarded vehicle on property under his or her
control.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-5 DUTY OF OWNER.
   If a motor vehicle is abandoned on a public street or upon property owned or
operated by the municipality, it shall be the duty and responsibility of the
owner of such vehicle, after due notice, to cause the removal of such vehicle
immediately and pay all costs incidental to such removal.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-6 FAILURE OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle located upon any occupied or
unoccupied private property within the town which has not been removed after
ten days’ notice from the town to the owner or occupant, upon being declared a
health or safety hazard by the Town Building Inspector, may be removed to a
garage or storage area and disposed of, pursuant to the provisions of this
article and G.S. § 160A-303 and amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-7 REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle found to be in violation of this
article may be removed to a storage garage or area; but no such vehicle shall
be removed from private property without the written request of the owner,
lessee or occupant of the premises unless the Board of Aldermen or a duly
authorized town official or employee has declared it to be a health or safety
hazard. The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked or
abandoned motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the town against any
loss, expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale
thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-8 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   When any junked or abandoned motor vehicle is removed under the provisions
of this article, the town shall give written notice of the removal to the
registered owner at his or her last known address according to the latest
registration certificate or certificate of title on file with the Department of
Motor Vehicles. The notice shall inform the owner of the possible sale or other
disposition that can be made of the vehicle under this article. Notice need not
be given to the registered owner of the vehicle when it does not display a
license plate and the vehicle identification numbers have been removed or
defaced so as to be illegible.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-9 REDEMPTION.
   The owner of any vehicle removed from property pursuant to the provisions of
this article may regain possession of the vehicle by paying to the town all
reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§§ 12-10 – 12-19 RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. SALE, DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 12-20 AUTHORIZED.
   After holding an unclaimed abandoned motor vehicle for 30 days, the town may
sell or dispose of it as provided by this division.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-21 DISPOSITION AS JUNK.
   If an abandoned vehicle appears to be worth less than $100, the town may
dispose of the vehicle as a junked motor vehicle as provided by Division 3 of
this article. With the consent of the owner, the town may remove and dispose of
any motor vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without regard to the value,
condition or age of the vehicle, and without holding it for any prescribed
period of time.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-22 SALE AT AUCTION.
   If an unclaimed abandoned motor vehicle is worth $100 or more, it shall be
sold at public auction.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-23 NOTICE OF SALE.
   Twenty days’ written notice of a sale authorized under the provisions of
this division 2. shall be given to the registered owner at his or her last
known address, the holders of all liens of record against the vehicle, and the
Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-24 REDEMPTION.
   Any person having an interest in an unclaimed abandoned motor vehicle may
redeem it at any time before the sale by paying all costs accrued to date.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-25 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of a sale authorized by this division 2. shall be paid to the
Town Treasurer, who shall pay to the appropriate officers or persons the costs
of removal, storage, investigation, sale and liens in that order. The remainder
of the proceeds of sale, if any, shall be paid over to the registered owner, or
held by the town for 60 days if the registered owner cannot be located with
reasonable diligence. If the owner does not claim the remainder of the proceeds
within 60 days after the sale, the funds shall be deposited in the town’s
General Fund and the owner’s rights therein shall be forever extinguished.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-26 ISSUANCE OF TITLE CERTIFICATE.
   When it receives a town’s bill of sale from a purchaser or other person
entitled to receive any vehicle disposed of as provided in this division, the
Department of Motor Vehicles shall issue a certificate of title for the vehicle
as required by law.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§§ 12-27 – 12-29 RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. SALE, DISPOSAL OF JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 12-30 AUTHORIZED.
   After holding an unclaimed junked motor vehicle for 15 days, the town may
destroy it or sell it at private sale as junk.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-31 NOTICE.
   Within 15 days after final disposition of a junked motor vehicle, the town
shall notify the Department of Motor Vehicles that the vehicle has been
determined to be a junked motor vehicle and disposed of as such. The notice
shall contain as full and accurate a description of the vehicle as can be
reasonably determined.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-32 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   Any proceeds from the sale of a junked motor vehicle, after all costs of
removal, storage, investigation and sale, and satisfying any liens of record on
the vehicle have been deducted therefrom, shall be held by the town for 30 days
and paid to the registered owner upon demand. If the owner does not appear to
claim the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle, the funds
shall be deposited in the town’s General Fund and the owner’s rights therein
shall be forever extinguished.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§§ 12-33 – 12-39 RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES
DECLARED TO BE PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 12-40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Aldermen; or
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood
or area appearance.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-41 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or for the
owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is
located to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it has
been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (b)   Upon investigation, the Town Building Inspector may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard or a public nuisance as
defined above and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-42 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE – PRETOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   A vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed because it has been
declared to be a nuisance vehicle shall be towed only after notice to the owner
or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. If the names and mailing
addresses of the owners of the vehicle or the real property upon which it is
located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice
shall be given to both by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s)
shall retain a written record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which
mailed, and the date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained,
notice shall be given by affixing same on the windshield or some other
conspicuous place on the vehicle. The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (b)   If the owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is a nuisance
vehicle, such appeal shall be made to the Board of Aldermen in writing, heard
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board and further proceedings to
remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (c)   A nuisance vehicle may be removed without giving the minimum seven
days prior notice, only in those circumstances where the authorizing official
finds, and enters such findings in appropriate records, a special need for
prompt action to maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-43 SAME – POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   Any vehicle which has been determined to be a nuisance vehicle may be
removed to a storage garage or area by a towing business contracting to perform
such services for the town. Whenever such vehicle is removed, the Building
Inspector shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, such notice to include the following:
      (1)   A description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicles; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (b)   This notice shall be mailed to the owner’s last known address, unless
waived in writing.
   (c)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be mailed
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in this state, notice shall
be mailed to the owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (d)   Whenever a nuisance vehicle is removed, and such vehicle has no valid
registration or registration plate, the authorizing town official shall make
reasonable efforts, including the checking of the vehicle identification
number, to determine the last known registered owner of the vehicle and to
notify him or her of the information as set forth in subsections (a)(1) through
(a)(5) above.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-44 SALE OF VEHICLE – RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE.
   After removal of a vehicle declared to be a nuisance vehicle, the owner or
other person entitled to possession may request, in writing, a hearing to
determine if probable cause existed for removing the vehicle. The request must
be filed with the Magistrate in the county where the vehicle was towed. The
Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the request, and
the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provision of G.S. § 20-
219.11.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-45 SAME – PROCEDURE FOR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (a)   With the consent of the owner, the Building Inspector may dispose of
any vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without holding it for any prescribed
period of time.
   (b)   Any unclaimed junked motor vehicle as defined by this article shall be
held for a period of at least 15 days. The owner of any such vehicle may claim
his or her vehicle during the 15-day retention period by exhibiting proof of
ownership to the Building Inspector and after paying all reasonable costs
incident to the removal and storage of the vehicle plus administrative
expenses. If after the vehicle is held 15 days it remains unclaimed, such
vehicle may be destroyed or sold at private sale as junk.
   (c)   Within 15 days after final disposition of a junked motor vehicle,
written notice thereof shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles that
the vehicle has been determined to be a junked motor vehicle and disposed of as
such. The notice shall contain as full and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-46 SAME – DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle declared to be a
nuisance, after all costs of removal, storage, investigation and sale, and
satisfaction of any lien of record on the vehicle have been deducted therefrom,
shall be held by the Town Finance Officer for 30 days and paid to the owner
upon demand. If the owner does not appear to claim the remainder of the
proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle, the funds shall be
deposited into the town’s General Fund and the owner’s rights therein shall be
forever extinguished.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-47 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any junked, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as
contemplated by this article.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-48 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any motor vehicle in an enclosed
building, any motor vehicle kept or stored at a bona fide “automobile
graveyard” or “junkyard” as defined in G.S. § 136-143 or to any motor vehicle
that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use.
(Ord. passed 6-5-1991)
§ 12-49 RESERVED.
DIVISION 5. ABANDONED/JUNKED VESSELS, GENERALLY
§ 12-50 PURPOSE.
   (a)   It is recognized that boating and watercraft use in the town is a
widely enjoyed form of leisure and recreation. It is equally recognized that
some owners do not safely and properly dispose of their boats or watercraft.
   (b)   The Town Board of Aldermen hereby determines that the following rules
and regulations are necessary to protect the health, safety and general welfare
of citizens using the public waters within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
town.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-51 AUTHORITY; SCOPE.
   (a)   This article is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the Board
of Aldermen in Session Law 2023-27 S.B. 465 to regulate junked or abandoned
vessels in navigable waters within the town’s jurisdictional boundaries
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-205.6 and to regulate the removal of such vessels
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-303.
   (b)   This article shall apply to all navigable waters within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the town.
   (c)   This article shall not apply to vessels owned or operated in the
official performance of duties by any federal, state, or local government
authority.
   (d)   This article shall not apply to any shipwreck, cargoes, tackle, and
other underwater archeological remains that have been in place and unclaimed
for more than ten years, and shall not be removed without the approval of the
North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, which is the legal custodian
of these properties pursuant to G.S. § 121-23.
   (e)   This article shall not be construed to obligate the town to
appropriate funds to implement the provisions herein.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-52 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VESSEL.
      (1)   A vessel that is moored, anchored, or otherwise located for more
than 30 consecutive days in any 180 consecutive-day period without permission
of the dock owner; or
      (2)   A vessel that is in danger of sinking, has sunk, is resting on the
bottom, or is located such that it is a hazard to navigation or is an immediate
danger to other vessels.
      (3)   Shipwrecks, vessels, cargoes, tackle, and other underwater
archeological remains that have been in place and unclaimed for more than ten
years shall not be considered ABANDONED VESSELS unless approved by the North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, which is the legal custodian of
these properties pursuant to G.S. §§ 121-22 and 121-23.
   DAYS. Calendar days, where the term is used for computation of time.
   JUNKED VESSEL. A vessel that has been left unattended and is in significant
disrepair, such that the condition may affect the seaworthiness of the vessel
or affect the safety of the public or the environment.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. All waters within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
town that are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide, including rivers,
waterways, streams (including intermittent streams), mudflats, sandflats, and
wetlands.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the legal or equitable
property interest in or title to a vessel, or the person's legal
representative. For purposes of this article, where a vessel is determined to
have been registered with the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission, or
an agency of another state responsible for registration, such registration
shall create a rebuttable presumption that the owner is the last registered
owner of record.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or other
entity.
   POLICE CHIEF. The North Topsail Beach Police Chief, or such duly authorized
officer or agent of the Chief.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft or structure, other than a seaplane
on the water, used or capable of being used as a means of transportation or
habitation on the water.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-53 ANCHORING; DOCKING; MOORING: INTERFERENCE WITH NAVIGATION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except in the case of emergency
or as required for maintenance dredging, to anchor, moor, raft-up or permit to
be anchored, moored or rafted-up, or operate any vessel or carry on any
activity including, but not limited to, the placing of crab traps, anchor
lines, anchors, mooring buoys, pilings or similar objects in a manner which
shall constitute a hazard to navigation or interfere with another vessel.
Anchoring under bridges or in or adjacent to heavily traveled channels shall
constitute interference if done during periods of heavy vessel traffic.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to anchor, dock, moor, or store
any vessel in the waters within the jurisdictional boundaries of the town for
more than ten days in a 30-day period in any calendar year, except at a private
dock or marina.
   (c)   For its first ten days in town waters in any 30-day period in any
calendar year, any transient vessel legally anchored and attended shall be
deemed to have anchorage permission for provisioning, repairs, tourism, and
recreational use, unless such permission is revoked in writing by the Police
Chief for any of the reasons given below.
      (1)   The vessel has dragged anchor or is moored in an unauthorized area,
or in a marked channel.
      (2)   Unless exempt pursuant to G.S. § 75A-7, the vessel displays no
evidence of current state, federal, or foreign registration, or, when asked by
the Police Chief, the owner or operator of the vessel fails to present a
current registration, cruising permit, or other official documentation of
ownership upon which he or she is named as the owner or operator.
      (3)   The vessel is left unattended for a period exceeding 24 hours.
UNATTENDED shall mean for the purposes of this section that the owner or
operator has not been found on the boat or in its immediate vicinity and has
failed to respond to any posting or citation left by the Police Chief.
      (4)   The vessel is slept on but is not equipped with a holding tank or
the owner or operator fails to provide the Police Chief with receipts for
regular weekly pump outs of the vessel's holding tank.
      (5)   Law enforcement officers have responded to complaints of excessive
noise, thefts, firearms violations, controlled substance violations, or other
disturbances of possible danger to the environment or any person, emanating
from the vessel or its crew.
      (6)   The vessel is at any time within 75 feet of any other legally
anchored vessel, or any private mooring or private dock or marina without the
written permission of the owner.
      (7)   If the Police Chief, or his or her designee, determines there are
safety-related or environmental reasons for denying permission during a
particular period of time, or in a particular place, or in a particular manner.
      (8)   During a hurricane warning each vessel operator shall secure their
vessel to prevent the vessel, and/or its parts or contents from damaging the
property of others.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful to anchor vessels without ground tackle to
hold the vessel at anchor. Vessels at anchor shall maintain a firm anchor and
the operator shall ensure that the vessel is not slipping anchor and changing
its location.
      (10)   When necessary, the Police Chief may act or may join in action
with other agencies to determine and abate any unsafe or environmentally
hazardous conditions by towing, relocating, removing any vessel, or taking any
other action reasonably necessary.
      (11)   The Police Chief shall post unattended vessels which are in
violation until five violations have been posted. The Police Chief shall then
continue to monitor the violating vessel until ten days have elapsed from the
date of the first posting. If the person in control of the vessel returns, or
contacts the office of the Police Chief, and abates the violation within that
time, no further actions, other than payment of accrued fines, need to be
taken.
      (12)   If the owner of any unattended vessel anchored, moored, docked or
stored in town waters fails to respond to notices or pay fines and fees as
required by this section for more than ten days from the first posting, the
vessel may be taken into custody by the Police Chief and stored in a safe place
of storage.
      (13)   The owner shall be responsible for the costs of towing and storage
of the vessel. Any vessel towed, removed, relocated or impounded shall be
subject to a lien pursuant to G.S. § 44A.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-54 JUNKED VESSELS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to anchor, moor or ground any derelict vessel on
the public land or waters of the town, or waters adjoining private property.
Indicators that a vessel is derelict include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Improper, non-working, or no anchor light, which is a hazard to
navigation, when combined with an owner/operator who is not tending to the
vessel;
      (2)   Vessel is neglected, substantially dismantled, improperly
maintained, or is not able to be used for navigation as intended;
      (3)   Vessel does not comply with current registration requirements, when
combined with an owner/operator who is not tending to the vessel;
      (4)   Vessel is barnacle-laden;
      (5)   Vessel interior is exposed to the elements (rain, waves, and the
like);
      (6)   Vessel is listing;
      (7)   Vessel is aground;
      (8)   Vessel is in danger or breaking its mooring; or
      (9)   Vessel is sinking.
   (b)   Upon identifying a derelict vessel, the Police Chief shall post a
notice on board the vessel and shall attempt to notify the owner by certified
mail or personal delivery of notice. The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the vessel and location of the vessel, however the notice
posted aboard the vessel need not include description and location;
      (2)   Identify the condition(s) identified that must be corrected;
      (3)   Inform the owner that a written plan for correcting identified
conditions, or removal of the vessel and restoration of the affected
surrounding environmental area, must be submitted within ten days of the date
the notice is served;
      (4)   Inform the owner that the identified conditions must be corrected,
or the vessel must be removed from the waters or public lands and the affected
surrounding environmental area restored, within 30 days of the date the notice
posted aboard the vessel;
      (5)   Inform the owner that failure to meet either the ten-day or 30-day
deadlines will result in the vessel being deemed abandoned, subject the owner
to civil/criminal penalties, and that all costs associated with removal and
disposition of the vessel and restoration of the affected surrounding
environmental areas will be the responsibility of the owner.
   (c)   Failure of the owner to correct the dangerous condition, or remove the
vessel from the waters of the jurisdictional boundaries of the town within 30
days, after notice, shall cause the vessel to be defined as an abandoned
vessel, and disposed of pursuant to § 12-62.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-55 ABANDONED VESSELS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to abandon a vessel on public land, submerged
land, or waters of the town, or waters adjoining private property. This section
does not apply to persons who abandon a vessel in an emergency for the safety
of the persons onboard; however, after the emergency is over, the owner and
operator of the abandoned vessel shall notify the Police Department or the
United States Coast Guard and must remove the vessel within ten days.
   (b)   Upon identifying an abandoned vessel, the Police Chief shall post a
notice on board the vessel and shall attempt to notify the owner by certified
mail or personal delivery of notice.
      (1)   Describe the vessel and location of the vessel, however the notice
posted aboard the vessel need not include description and location;
      (2)   Inform the owner that the vessel must be removed from the waters or
public lands and the affected surrounding environmental area restored, and/or
claimed upon payment of all fines and fees, within 30 days of the date the
notice is posted aboard the vessel;
      (3)   Inform the owner that failure to meet the ten-day deadline will
result in the vessel being deemed abandoned, subject the owner to civil/
criminal penalties, and that all costs associated with publication of notice,
removal and disposition of the vessel and restoration of the affected
surrounding environmental areas will be the responsibility of the owner.
   (c)   Any abandoned vessel located on or below any navigable waters, or
beached, or grounded adjacent thereto may be removed or relocated and impounded
by the Police Chief.
   (d)   The owner shall be responsible for all costs of towing, relocation,
removal and storage of the vessel, and restoration of the area surrounding the
vessel, including costs owed to a third party, and costs incurred by the town
or the Police Department. Any vessel towed, removed, relocated or impounded
shall be subject to a lien pursuant to G.S. § 44A.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-56 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (a)   Place, discharge or deposit, by any process or in any manner, offal,
piles, lumber, timber, driftwood, dirt, ashes, cinders, mud, sand, dredging,
sludge, acid, or any other garbage or refuse matters, floatable or otherwise,
in town waters.
   (b)   Discharge, or cause or permit to be discharged, into town waters any
oil, oil refuse, fuel, or other inflammable matter.
   (c)   Discharge, or cause or permit to be discharged, any vessel waste into
town waters. For the purposes of this section, VESSEL WASTE shall mean sewage,
whether treated or untreated, from marine toilets. Marine sanitation devices
must be secured in a manner which prevents any discharge. Some acceptable
methods are: padlocking overboard discharge valves in the closed position,
using non-releasable wire tie to hold overboard discharge valves in the closed
position, closing overboard discharge valves and removing the handle, locking
the door, with padlock or key lock, to the space enclosing the toilets (for
Type I and Type II marine sanitation devices only).
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§§ 12-57 – 12-59 RESERVED.
DIVISION 6. ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY FOR ABANDONED/JUNKED
VESSELS
§ 12-60 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTHORITY.
   (a)   The Police Chief, or any law enforcement officer with territorial
jurisdiction, is authorized and empowered to enforce this article.
   (b)   The Police Chief is authorized to board any vessel, as required, to
enforce the provisions of this article, or any federal or state law, and such
boarding in the performance of official duties shall not constitute a trespass.
   (c)   The Police Chief is authorized to seize, tow, remove or relocate the
vessel from the public waters, and to store or dock the vessel in a safe place,
as a result of arresting the operator, or taking any enforcement action that
would render the vessel unattended, or without an operator of suitable age,
discretion and competence.
   (d)   The town or the Police Chief may use staff, equipment, and material
under its control or provided by any cooperating federal, state, or local
government or agency; may authorize or contract with any private agent or
contractor it deems appropriate; or may authorize or contract with any federal,
state, or local government or agency for the removal, storage, or disposal of
an abandoned vessel and restoration of the affected area.
   (e)   The method of removal, storage, or disposal of the abandoned vessel,
whether by the owner, a third party, the Police Chief, the town, or the state,
must comply with all applicable federal and state laws, regulations, and rules.
   (f)   The owner shall be responsible for all costs of towing, relocation,
removal, and storage of the vessel, including costs owed to a third party, and
costs incurred by the town or the Police Department.
   (g)   The town, elected officials, the Police Chief, any law enforcement
officer, or any contractor or any employee or agent thereof, acting under this
article to remove or relocate a vessel from public waters, shall be held
harmless for all damages to the vessel resulting from such removal or
relocation, unless the damage results from gross negligence or willful
misconduct.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-61 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a Class 3 misdemeanor
punishable to the extent provided in G.S. § 14-4, and shall carry a fine of
$100 per offense. A violation that either reoccurs or continues without
cessation 24 hours after a person has been criminally charged, either by arrest
or citation, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   A conviction under this section does not bar the assessment and
collection of the civil remedies provided in this article.
   (b)   Civil remedies. In addition to, or in lieu of any criminal penalties
set forth herein, any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this article shall be subject to civil penalties, as follows:
      (1)   A violation of this article shall be subject to a civil remedy in
the amount of $100 per offense. A violation that either reoccurs or continues
without cessation after a 24 hour-period shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Civil remedies shall be used in the recovery of the costs expended
enforcing this article.
      (3)   Any civil remedy may be appealed to the Police Chief, the Town
Manager, or his or her designee, within 30 days of the issuance of the civil
remedy. A hearing shall be held within 15 working days of the appeal. Such
appeal shall be made in writing and presented to the Police Chief. The Police
Chief shall then deny or grant the hearing based on the 30 day threshold. The
hearing, if granted, will consist of a three-person panel to include the Police
Chief, Town Manager, and one designee. The decision of the panel will be deemed
final unless appealed and overturned by a court with jurisdiction over these
matters.
      (4)   Any decision of the Police Chief, Town Manager, or his or her
designee, may be appealed to the District Court of Onslow County within 30
days.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-62 DISPOSITION/DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VESSELS.
   (a)   An abandoned vessel, including all cargo, tackle and equipment, seized
pursuant to this article, which remains unclaimed after notice, shall be deemed
forfeited, as set forth in G.S. § 14-399(g).
   (b)   A vessel having a value less than $500 may be disposed of at any
suitable solid waste facility.
   (c)   A vessel having a value of $500 or greater shall be disposed of as
provided in G.S. § 44A, with the proceeds paying for the towing, removal, and
storage charges, accrued civil fines, and environmental restoration costs. The
remaining proceeds, if any, shall be deposited into the general fund of the
town and designated for use to abate or remove abandoned vessels and restore
environmental damage resulting from abandoned vessels.
   (d)   Any vessel, cargo, tackle, or equipment remaining unsold after being
offered at public sale may be disposed of at any suitable solid waste facility.
   (e)   Within ten days following the disposal or public sale of any vessel
previously registered in any state, or meeting the requirements for
registration prior to operation in North Carolina, the Police Chief shall
provide notice to the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission, and the
agency responsible for registration in the state of any previously registered
vessel. The contents of the notice, shall include, if available:
      (1)   Vessel registration number;
      (2)   Manufacturer, model, year;
      (3)   NC title number (if applicable);
      (4)   Hull identification number;
      (5)   A description of the reason for being disposed of or sold as an
abandoned vessel;
      (6)   Type of disposition and location;
      (7)   Full name and address of the purchaser (if applicable); and
      (8)   Date of sale and sale price (if applicable).
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§ 12-63 SEVERABILITY.
   If any article, section, subsection, sentence, or clause of this article is
adjudged to be unconstitutional or invalid, such adjudication shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this article. It is hereby declared
that this article would have been passed, and each article, section,
subsection, sentence, or clause hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
or more articles, sections, subsections, sentences, or clauses might be
adjudged to be unconstitutional or for any other reason invalid.
(Ord. passed 1-3-2024)
§§ 12-64 – 12-69 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 13: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
13-1   Definitions
   
13-2   Refuse required to be deposited in approved containers
   
13-3   Burning or burying garbage and refuse regulated
   
13-4   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
13-5   Containers required
   
13-6   Precollection practices
   
13-7   Placement of containers for garbage collection
   
13-8   Unlawful to displace containers
   
13-9   Special or bulk collections regulated
   
13-10   Use of dumpster containers; private contracts for disposal
   
13-11   Charges or fees
   
13-12   Littering
§ 13-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial byproducts, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, waste material, cans, refuse, garbage, trash, debris,
dead animals or discarded materials of every kind and description.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, business,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as sale,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluent, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery trimmings and cuttings and all
other trimmings from the natural growth of trees, shrubbery, weeds, plants or
grass.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995)
§ 13-2 REFUSE REQUIRED TO BE DEPOSITED IN APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-3 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for the
purpose of disposal. In addition, it shall be unlawful to burn any refuse for
the purpose of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the Fire
Marshal.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-4 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit garbage
or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is reasonably
necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers required herein.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-5 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (a)   All occupants of each premises, against which a charge for the
collection and disposal of garbage and rubbish is levied in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be provided a container by the town or by the
contractor providing solid waste disposal services in accordance with a
contract with the town. The occupants of such premises shall be required to
deposit all garbage and refuse existing at such premises in the containers so
provided, subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter. All containers
so provided shall be kept in a reasonably clean manner.
   (b)   All occupants of each premises not wishing to participate with town
collection services provided are required to contract with a solid waste
disposal service.
   (c)   Owners or agents of owners with rental property/properties shall
participate with the town solid waste program or participate with a solid waste
contractor for solid waste disposal services.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-6 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection. No ashes or cinders shall be deposited in any container until
they are cold. Insofar as is possible, all garbage shall be bagged in plastic
bags and placed in the containers.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-7 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (a)   Containers shall be located in the street right-of-way only for the
purpose of garbage collection. Rolling containers shall be clearly marked with
the owner’s street address.
   (b)   Containers shall not be located in the street right-of-way earlier
than noon on the day preceding scheduled collection and shall not remain within
the street right-of-way after 10:00 a.m. on the day following collection.
   (c)   Containers located within the street right-of-way at other times or
not properly marked are in violation of this section.
      (1)   First offense shall receive a written warning.
      (2)   Subsequent violations of this section shall be punishable by a fine
as specified in the schedule of town fees, per occurrence.
(Ord. passed 7-3-2008)
§ 13-8 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or otherwise interfere with
garbage containers or their contents, or to take, carry away or steal any
container with the intent or effect of depriving the owner and/or designated
user of the use and benefit of said container for any period of time.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
§ 13-9 SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS REGULATED.
   (a)   No trash, tree limbs, shrubbery, cuttings, leaves or any other refuse
will be collected by the town except on designated collection days.
   (b)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than eight feet in length
or other heavy objects be collected by the town. No waste building materials or
lot clearings shall be collected by the town from houses or other structures
under construction or recently completed.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995)
§ 13-10 USE OF DUMPSTER CONTAINERS; PRIVATE CONTRACTS FOR DISPOSAL.
   (a)   Service locations requiring more than two garbage containers as
described in §
13-5 shall be provided a dumpster container for their exclusive use. Service
locations requiring dumpster containers may choose to allow the town to collect
solid waste under the provisions of this chapter or they may choose to contract
directly with a firm authorized to perform solid waste collection service
within the town. On or before July 15 of each year, service locations choosing
to decline solid waste dumpster service as provided by the town for the next
fiscal year (July 1 through June 30) shall notify the town, in writing, of
their intention to contract privately for disposal of said waste. Failure to
notify the town of intentions to contract privately for disposal services shall
be deemed an acceptance of town sponsored service in accordance with applicable
fee schedules for the entire fiscal year.
   (b)   Contractors/builders are required to provide the following on all
remodeling or new construction sites:
      (1)   A waste disposal container, minimum size eight feet by eight feet
by four feet for materials such as treated lumber, roofing material, cans,
glass and the like, which cannot be burned;
      (2)   The contractor/builder is responsible for the cost of the container
rental/ownership and disposal. Proof of rental or ownership is to be provided
to the town Inspection Department prior to the issuance of permits; and
      (3)   The appropriate container must be on the remodeling or new
construction site within three days of the issuance of the permit for
remodeling or new construction.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995)
§ 13-11 CHARGES OR FEES.
   For the service of collecting and disposing of garbage and rubbish, the
owner or occupant of each premises shall be charged such rates as may be
established, from time to time, by the Board of Aldermen. Such charges shall be
considered a debt to the town from the owner or occupant of the premises which
uses the service. No owner or occupant of premises within the town shall be
exempt from the collection and disposal service provided by the town except in
accordance with the provisions of §
13-5(b) and (c).
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995)
§ 13-12 LITTERING.
   (a)   No person shall intentionally or recklessly throw, scatter, spill or
place or intentionally or recklessly cause to be thrown, spilled, scattered or
placed, or otherwise dispose of any litter upon any public property within the
town or in the waters of the Atlantic Ocean or the waters contiguous to or
within the boundaries of the town, including but not limited to any public
highway, public park, beach, campground, forest land, recreational area, road,
street or alley except:
      (1)   When such property is designated by the town for the disposal of
garbage and refuse, and such person is authorized to use such designated
property for that purpose; or
      (2)   Into a litter receptacle in such a manner that the litter will not
be carried away or deposited by the elements upon any part of such public
property or waters.
   (b)   The offender shall also be subject to a civil debt of $50 per day in
addition to other penalties. No such civil penalty shall be assessed until the
person alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation. Each day
of the continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1995) Penalty, see §
1-5
CHAPTER 14: COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM
Section
   
14-1   Established
   
14-2   General repealer
   
14-3   Amendment to fee schedule
   
14-4   Technical corrections
§ 14-1 ESTABLISHED.
   The Community Antenna Television System Regulation is hereby adopted. The
Town Manager, through appropriate staff, is directed to have the document
codified and bound appropriately, and to thereafter have it distributed as
required by law and as may, in his or her opinion, be beneficial and convenient
to the citizens of the town. A copy of the Community Antenna Television System
Regulation is attached to an ordinance of March 7, 2002, as exhibit “A,” and
incorporated by reference as if more fully set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2002)
Editor’s note: 
   Exhibit A is available for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk
§ 14-2 GENERAL REPEALER.
   All ordinances or provisions of the code of ordinances which are not in
conformance with the provisions of the amendment occurring herein are repealed
as of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2002)
§ 14-3 AMENDMENT TO FEE SCHEDULE.
   The town fee schedule is hereby amended to reflect an application fee for
individuals applying for an initial franchise grant of $8,000. Such other fees
as are authorized herein shall be determined at the time of any such
application.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2002)
§ 14-4 TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
   Town staff are authorized to correct any typographical, cross reference,
numbering, formatting or other errors which may hereafter be discovered and to
publish or distribute correction sheets as may be necessary. This section shall
not be construed as authorizing town staff to make any substantive changes to
the provisions of the code without presenting the same to the Board of Aldermen
for consideration and approval as required by law.
(Ord. passed 3-7-2002)
CHAPTER 15: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
15-1   Unified Development Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 15-1 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Unified Development Ordinance, adopted by the town on November 2, 2011,
is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set
forth in full herein.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2011; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-7-2015)
Editor’s note:
   The UDO is available for inspection in the office of the Town Clerk
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites              Code Section
1-593                   1-2
14-3                    11-47
                        1-5,
                        4-1,
                        10-7,
14-4                    10-23,
                        11-6,
                        6.5-22,
                        12-61
14-127                  6-16
14-128                  6-16
14-132                  6-120
14-247                  2-32
14-252                  2-32
14-360 et seq.          Ch. 11
14-399(g)               12-62
18B-1001                4-3
19A-1 et seq.           Ch. 11
Ch. 20                  Ch. 6,
                        6-74
20-27.1                 10-36
20-50                   6-154
20-79                   6-154
20-124                  6-152
20-126                  6-152
20-129                  6-152
20-129.1                6-152
20-130.1                6-152
20-130.2                6-152
20-131                  6-152
20-141(f)               6-73,
                        6-74
20-169                  Ch. 6
20-175                  Ch. 4
20-219.11               6-157,
                        12-44
                        12-53,
44A                     12-55,
                        12-62
67-1 et seq.            11-20
75A-1 et seq.           Ch. 10
75A-7                   12-53
75A-10                  10-1
75A-13                  10-1
105-109(d)              4-32
105-164.13(17)          4-16
105-164.13(20)          4-16
113A-100 et seq.        10-48
121-22                  12-52
121-23                  12-51,
                        12-52
Ch. 130A                11-22
130A-17 et seq.         11-47
130A-25                 11-47
136-143                 12-48
Ch. 143, Art. 33B       2-13
153A-123                11-6
153A-131                11-40
159-20                  2-33
Ch. 160A                2-10
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Pt. 2 Charter
                        Sec. 5.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 12       2-2
160A-1                  2-13
160A-61                 2-30
160A-63                 2-16
160A-71                 2-13
160A-74                 2-13
160A-75                 2-25,
                        4-1
160A-76                 Ch. 7
160A-77                 1-1
160A-78                 2-25
160A-148                2-60
160A-171 et seq.        2-40
160A-173                2-50
                        4-36,
160A-174                4-40,
                        6-16
160A-175                1-5
160A-178                4-1,
                        4-36
160A-181                4-40
160A-184                6-120
160A-186                Ch. 11
160A-187                Ch. 11 
160A-193                6.5-21
160A-194                Ch. 4
160A-205.6              12-51
160A-207                4-32
160A-266                2-2
160A-272                1-2
160A-285                10-22
160A-296                6-74
160A-303                12-6,
                        12-51
160A-303.2              6.5-15
160A-389                1-5
163-279 et seq.         2-12
163-279(a)(1)           2-71
                        Charter Sec.
163-292                 4.1,
                        2-72
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     10-44,
–      - -         10-45,
                     10-49
–      12-19-1983  11-2
–      3-15-1990   4-11 -
                     4-34
–      6-9-1990    6.5-15 -
                     6.5-22
                     10-30 -
–      10-3-1990   10-36,
                     10-39
                     6-1 -
                     6-15,
                     6-31 -
                     6-40,
                     6-51 -
                     6-61,
                     6-71 -
                     6-73,
                     6-81 -
                     6-93,
                     6-101,
–      6-5-1991    6-102,
                     6-111 -
                     6-114,
                     6-146 -
                     6-160,
                     12-1 -
                     12-9,
                     12-20 -
                     12-26,
                     12-30 -
                     12-32,
                     12-40 -
                     12-48
–      9-4-1991    10-1
                     10-30 -
–      9-18-1991   10-36,
                     10-39
–      5-7-1992    4-2
                     2-2,
–      6-6-1992    4-34,
                     6-120 -
                     6-135
–      8-6-1992    10-1,
                     10-20
–      10-1-1992   10-30 -
                     10-39
                     4-40 -
–      4-1-1993    4-47,
                     6-20
–      9-2-1993    11-31
                     13-1 -
–      6-1-1995    13-6,
                     13-8 -
                     13-12
–      10-24-1996  6-74
                     2-80 -
–      7-2-1998    2-86,
                     6-161,
                     6-162
–      11-10-1998  2-2
                     10-22,
–      6-3-1999    10-40 -
                     10-43
                     11-4,
                     11-23,
–      11-4-1999   11-26,
                     11-28,
                     11-30,
                     11-31
–      1-10-2000   10-30 -
                     10-39
–      6-14-2001   6-163 -
                     6-165
–      3-7-2002    14-1 -
                     14-4
–      11-7-2002   10-2 -
                     10-7
–      4-5-2007    10-23
–      7-3-2008    13-7
2010-1   2-4-2010    6-130
                     4-1,
2010-2   3-4-2010    4-11,
                     4-34,
                     4-35
–      11-2-2011   15-1
2011-1   12-1-2011   2-14
2012-2   4-5-2012    7-1 -
                     7-5
2012-3   6-7-2012    8-1 -
                     8-17
2012-4   7-5-2012    6-103
2014-1   2-11-2014   6-137 -
                     6-139
                     4-1,
2014-2   3-6-2014    6-125,
                     10-3
2014-3   5-1-2014    4-35
2014-8   7-9-2014    10-31,
                     10-32
2014-9   8-7-2014    10-24 -
                     10-26
2014-10  10-2-2014   6-77
2015-1   1-7-2015    15-1
2015-2   2-5-2015    10-21
2015-3   3-5-2015    10-21
2015-5   6-2-2015    Adopting Ordinance
2015-7   8-6-2015    10-25
2015-8   8-6-2015    6-79
                     10-44 -
                     10-46,
2015-10  10-1-2015   10-48,
                     10-50 -
                     10-53
2017-5   5-3-2017    10-32
                     10-31,
2017-6   7-5-2017    10-32,
                     10-34,
                     10-36
2017-7   7-5-2017    6-77
2017-8   8-2-2017    4-3
2017-9   9-6-2017    10-3
2017-10  9-6-2017    10-32
2017-11  11-1-2017   10-21
2018-1   1-11-2018   6-89
19-01    2-7-2019    6-20
19-02    2-7-2019    2-90 -
                     2-104
2019-03  5-2-2019    4-36
–      9-7-2022    10-48 -
                     10-52
–      10-5-2022   10-47
                     12-50 -
–      1-3-2024    12-56,
                     12-60 -
                     12-63
–      2-7-2024    10-54
–      5-1-2024    6-79
–      6-5-2024    6-104
                    
 
 
