OAKBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. passed 2-19-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF TOWN OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF OAKBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
Mayor
Rodney Eury
Mayor Pro-Tempore
Latoya Jackson
Board of Commissioners
Joey Carpenter
Brett Barbee
Bud Smith
Fred Smith
Planning and Zoning Commission/Board of Adjustment
Planning and Zoning Commission/Board of Adjustment
Leonard Harvell Chair
Jay Voyles      Vice Chair
David Heath     Member
Chris Murray    Member
Wes Tucker      Member
Lanny Hathcock  Alternate Member
TBD             Alternate Member
 
 
Historic Preservation Commission
Teresa Smith  Chair
Donna Harris  Vice Chair
Alan Love     Member
Meredith Sain Member
TBD           Alternative Member
TBD           Alternate Member
 
Town Administrator/Town Planner
Georgia Osborne Harvey
Town Clerk/Finance Officer
Leslie Hatley-Murray
Police Chief
Neil Preslar
Town Attorney
Albert M. Benshoff - The Brough Law Firm, PLLC
CHARTER
PRIVATE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 1915
Chapter 51
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF OAKBORO, IN STANLY COUNTY.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
Section 1.
   That the inhabitants of the town of Oakboro shall be a body corporate, and
shall bear the name and style of the “Town of Oakboro,” and shall have power to
purchase and hold real estate for the benefit of the town, and that said town
shall have the power to sue and be sued, to plead and be impleaded, as any
other corporation; and that said town shall be subject to and have the benefit
of the general laws of the State in relation to corporations of like kind not
inconsistent with this act.
Section 2.
   That the corporate limits of the said town shall be as follows: Beginning at
an iron pin at the center of the intersection of Main and Third streets in the
town of Oakboro, which point shall be called the center of said town, and runs
thence with Main Street and beyond it extended south fifty east two thousand
six hundred and forty feet to a stake; thence north forty east, crossing the
railroad, in all, one thousand three hundred and twenty feet, to a stake;
thence north fifty west five thousand two hundred and eighty feet to a stake;
thence south forty west, crossing the Big Lick and Oakboro road, in all, two
thousand six hundred and forty feet, to a stake; thence south sixty east,
crossing the railroad, in all, five thousand two hundred and eighty feet, to a
stake; thence north forty east, crossing the Oakboro and Rocky River Springs
road, in all, one thousand three hundred and twenty feet, to a stake, the east
end of the first line above described.
Section 3.
   That the officers of said town shall consist of a mayor, five commissioners,
and a marshal, all of whom shall be elected at the regular elections to be held
as provided by this act, except the marshal, who shall be appointed by the
board of town commissioners for a term of two years: Provided, that said board
of commissioners shall have the right to revoke said appointment at any time on
failure of any marshal to perform the duties of his office satisfactorily; said
marshal to be paid for his services in any lawful way that said board may see
fit; that John R. Welsh be and he is hereby appointed mayor of said town; F. E.
Hartsell, C. E. Hill, C. C. Furr, J. F. Barbee, and J. M. Haywood be and they
are hereby appointed commissioners of said town; all of whom shall serve until
their successors are elected and qualified as hereinafter provided. Said mayor
and commissioners shall meet and qualify under the provisions of this act on or
before the fifteenth day of March, one thousand nine hundred and fifteen. At
the regular municipal election to be held in 2024, and every four years
thereafter, the Mayor shall be elected to a four-year term.
(Ord. passed 2-19-2024)
Section 4.
   That all resident citizens who are qualified voters of this State within
said corporation, that have resided in the county for six months and in the
town for four months next preceding any election held in said town, shall be
entitled to vote, and all qualified voters in the incorporation shall be
eligible to hold office in said corporation.
Section 5.
   That it shall be the duty of the mayor of said town to take the oath of
office prescribed by law within five days after his election, and that the
commissioners elected at any election for said town shall meet and organize
within five days next after their election, and they shall take the oath of
office that they, as a body, will faithfully and impartially perform the duties
of commissioners to the best of their knowledge and their ability for the
ensuing term.
Section 6.
   The commissioners of said town shall have power to levy a tax each year, not
exceeding one dollar and fifty cents on the poll and fifty cents on the hundred
dollars valuation of property; said valuation to be the same that is placed
thereon to raise the revenue for State and county purposes. The board of
commissioners shall at their first regular meeting in April, one thousand nine
hundred and fifteen, and annually thereafter, appoint some competent person,
who shall, on or before the twentieth day of April of each and every year, make
advertisement in at least four public places in said town, notifying all
persons residing in the town of Oakboro who have or control taxable property in
said town to appear before him at the times and places mentioned in said
advertisements, which dates shall be between the first and last days of May
each year, and to return to him a list of their taxable property in said town;
said list shall state the number of lots, or parts of lots, and all other
property now taxable or that may hereafter be made taxable by the laws of the
State or the ordinances of the town, and the lists so returned shall be sworn
to by the usual oath in the State for listing property. From the returns so
made the person so appointed as aforesaid shall, on or before the first day of
August each year, make out in a book for that purpose an alphabetical list of
persons and owners of property who have so made their returns in the same
manner as the tax list is made out by law for the collection of State taxes;
and the tax lister appointed as aforesaid shall copy in said book the
assessment made by the county of said assessors of all property within the
limits, which assessment may be revised, corrected, or amended by the board of
aldermen, but must at all times be the same in value as the assessment placed
thereon for State and county purposes. The owners of any property which lies
partly within and partly without the limits of said town shall cause the State
and county assessor to separate and fix the value separately on the part of the
property lying within said town. When the State and county assessors sit in the
town of Oakboro for assessing State and county taxes, the assessors for the
town of Oakboro will sit with them at the same time and place, and list the
property of said town. If any person liable for taxes on poll or other subjects
to be listed in said town shall fail to list or cause to be listed the same
during the month of May each year, as hereinbefore provided, he shall be
subject to double tax, and the commissioners of said town shall have all the
rights and remedies under the State laws to compel said person to appear and
list said tax; and the tax collector of the said town shall have the authority,
rights, and power to collect taxes due said town as conferred from time to time
by the Legislature upon the sheriffs and other tax collectors of the State for
collecting State and County taxes.
Section 7.
   That all taxes levied by the commissioners of said town shall be due and
collectible at any time after the first day of October in each year, and that
the commissioners may expend all moneys collected as they deem best for the
interest of the town.
Section 8.
   That all lists or books which may be placed in the hands of the town
collector shall be subject at all times to the control of the authorities
imposing said tax, and subject to correction, and shall be open for inspection
by the public.
Section 9.
   That the marshal appointed by said board of commissioners shall enter into a
bond payable to the State of North Carolina, the amount of which shall be
approved and fixed by the marshal or some other competent person as tax
collector for said town, who, after giving an approved bond in an amount to be
fixed by the board of commissioners, shall collect all taxes for said town,
under the same laws and regulations as are prescribed for the sheriff of the
county.
Section 10.
   That the board of commissioners of said town shall have power to grade,
macadamize, and pave the streets and sidewalks, and lay out and open new
streets or widen those already opened, and to make such improvements thereon as
the public convenience may require; and that the board shall be the sole judges
of the improvements required. The board may condemn any land for public use
under the same rules and regulations as are hereafter provided for the laying
out of public streets in this act.
Section 11.
   That when any lands or rights of way shall be required for the purpose of
opening new streets, or for other objects allowed by this charter, and for want
of agreement as to the compensation therefor, the same may be taken at a
valuation to be made by three freeholders of the town, one to be chosen by the
board of commissioners and one to be selected by the landowner, and these two
select a third; and in case the landowner refuses to select one, then the
commissioners shall select all three. And in making said valuation, said
freeholders, after being duly sworn by the mayor, shall at once proceed to
condemn said lands, and take into consideration the loss or damage which may
accrue to the owner in consequence of the lands or rights of way being
surrendered; also any benefit or advantage such owner may receive from the
opening or widening of such streets, or other improvements, and ascertain the
sum which shall be paid to the owner of said property, and report the same to
the board of commissioners under their hands and seals, which, on being
confirmed by the board and spread on their minutes, shall have the effect of a
judgment against said board of commissioners, and shall pass the title of the
lands so taken to the board of commissioners in their corporate capacity, and
the lands may at once be condemned and used by said town for the purpose
intended: Provided, that if any person over whose land the said street may pass
or improvement be created, or the commissioners be dissatisfied with the
valuation thus made, then in that case either party may have an appeal to the
next term of Superior Court within ten days after filing said report; Provided,
however, that appeal shall not hinder or delay the commissioners from opening
or widening such streets or creating such improvements.
Section 12.
   That all freeholders appointed to assess damages shall receive one dollar
per day for their services, and any freeholder who shall refuse to take the
oath prescribed and to act according to law, after having been duly appointed
by the board and after having been notified in writing by the marshal, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and fined twenty dollars for each offense by
the mayor.
Section 13.
   That the mayor shall have the same jurisdiction as a justice of the peace in
all criminal actions within the incorporate limits, and shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to hear and determine all misdemeanors consisting of violations of
the ordinances of said town; and all fines collected by him in criminal actions
under the law of this State shall be paid out as provided by law.
Section 14.
   All proceedings in the mayor’s court shall be the same as are now or
hereafter shall be prescribed for courts of the justice of the peace, and in
all cases there shall be a right to appeal to the Superior Court of Stanly
County. That whenever a defendant or witness or other person shall be adjudged
to be imprisoned by said court it shall be competent for the said court to
sentence each person to imprisonment in the county jail or town prison for a
term not to exceed thirty days, and to adjudge also that person during the
period of confinement be worked on the chaingang of the county or in any
township therein.
Section 15.
   That all officers elected at any election in the town of Oakboro shall hold
office for the term of two years and until their successors are elected and
qualified. That in the absence of any officer of the town, or during sickness
of any of the officers, the commissioners may appoint a man to fill the office
during his absence or during his inability, and no longer. If the absence be
caused by resignation, the board may appoint an officer to fill the unexpired
term.
Cross-reference:
   Town Board of Commissioners staggered terms, see §
30.31
Section 16.
   That the commissioners shall, at their first meeting after being qualified,
elect for the ensuing term a secretary and treasurer, and that the treasurer
shall enter into a bond, payable to the town of Oakboro or to the State, the
amount of which shall be fixed by the board, and that said bond shall be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds for Stanly County, as other
bonds for county officers.
Section 17.
   That the commissioners may provide for the establishment and equipment of a
fire company for said town.
Section 18.
   That the commissioners of said town shall constitute a sanitary committee,
and that all orders made by them for the preservation of the health of the
citizens of the town shall be put into effect by the marshal. Any person who
shall fail to comply with any order made by the board, after having been
notified in writing by the marshal, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and fined by the mayor, for each and every offense, not less than five dollars
and not more than fifty dollars.
Section 19.
   That if any person shall be found violating the laws of the State or any of
the town ordinances, by the marshal or other officer appointed to act as such
within the incorporate limits, he shall forthwith arrest the offender, without
a warrant, and immediately carry him before the mayor to answer the charge and
be dealt with according to law.
Section 20.
   That the board of commissioners of said town are hereby authorized and
empowered to establish a fire limit within a reasonable distance from the
center of the town, and to pass an ordinance or ordinances to the effect that
none other than brick or stone or metal buildings shall be built or erected
within said limits; and that they may repeal said ordinances at any time they
may deem it necessary for the interest of the town and the property holders
therein.
Section 21.
   That the board of commissioners shall have the power to tax circuses, shows,
liquor dealers, theaters, artificial curiosities, venders of patent proprietary
medicines, or any entertainment, musical or otherwise, and exhibits of any
character for money or reward, peddlers of all kinds of goods, wares,
merchandise paints, polishes, varnishes, oils; dealers in fireworks; draymen,
barbers, and liverymen, as they may see fit and proper, not inconsistent with
the laws of the State.
Section 22.
   That the board of commissioners of said town shall have the power to elect a
mayor pro tem, who, on the death, absence, failure to qualify, resignation, or
removal of the mayor, shall be vested with all the powers and discharge all the
duties of the said mayor.
Section 23.
   That if any commissioner shall fail to attend a regular meeting of the board
of commissioners, or called meeting of which he shall have had notice, unless
prevented by such cause as shall be satisfactory to the board, he shall forfeit
and pay for the use of the town one dollar for each and every offense; and it
shall be the duty of the mayor to enforce such forfeitures as in all other
criminal actions.
Cross-reference:
   Town Board of Commissioners quorum requirements, see §
30.32
Section 24.
   That the commissioners may allow the mayor such reasonable salary as they
may see fit and proper, the amount depending, upon services needed and
rendered.
Section 25.
   That the mayor and commissioners appointed by this act shall hold office
until the next general election on Tuesday after the first Monday in May, one
thousand nine hundred and fifteen, and until: their successors are elected and
qualified. That all elections held in said town shall be held according to the
provisions of sections two thousand nine hundred and forty-four to two thousand
nine hundred and sixty-seven, inclusive, of chapter seventy-three, Revisal of
one thousand nine hundred and five, and the acts amendatory thereof.
Cross-reference:
   Town Board of Commissioners staggered terms, see §
30.31
Section 26.
   That the board of commissioners shall have power to enact any ordinance or
ordinances and to pass any laws and regulations not incorporated in this
charter they may deem necessary for the better government of the town, not
inconsistent with the general laws and Constitution of the State.
Section 27.
   That any person having claims of any nature whatsoever against the town of
Oakboro shall present the same to the board of commissioners of said town for
payment at least sixty days before any action shall be brought or maintained
upon the same.
Section 28.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
 
Ratified this the 15th day of February, A. D. 1915.
   PRIVATE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
   SESSION 1927
   Chapter 107
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF OAKBORO, STANLY COUNTY, NORTH
CAROLINA, SO AS TO RAISE THE TAXING POWER IN SAID TOWN FROM FIFTY CENTS TO ONE
DOLLAR.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   Section 1. That chapter fifty-one (51) of the Private Laws of the General
Assembly of North Carolina, session one thousand nine hundred and fifteen, be
amended as follows: Strike out all of the first sentence in section six of said
chapter and insert in lieu thereof the following:
   “The commissioners of said town shall have power to levy a tax each year,
not exceeding one dollar ($1.00) on the poll and one dollar ($1.00) on the
hundred dollar ($100.00) valuation of all the real and personal property in
said town; said valuation to be the same that is placed on said property to
raise revenue for State and county purposes.”
   Section 2. This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
Ratified this the 2nd day of March, A. D. 1927.
   PRIVATE LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA
   SESSION 1929
   CHAPTER 18
AN ACT TO AMEND CHAPTER 51 OF THE PRIVATE LAWS OF 1915, RELATING TO THE
CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE TOWN OF OAKBORO IN STANLY COUNTY.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   Section 1. That chapter fifty-one of the Private Laws of one thousand nine
hundred and fifteen be and the same is hereby amended by striking out the word
“sixty” in line eleven of section two of said chapter and inserting in lieu
thereof the word “fifty.”
   Section 2. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed.
   Section 3. That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
Ratified this the 16th day of February, A. D., 1929.
   SESSION LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA 1947
   CHAPTER 602
S. B. 328
AN ACT TO EXTEND THE POLICE POWER OF THE TOWN OF OAKBORO IN STANLY COUNTY.
The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
   Section 1. That the police power of the Town of Oakboro in Stanly County be
and it is hereby extended to embrace all territory within a radius of two (2)
miles of the corporate limits of said town, and the police officers of said
town are authorized and empowered to make arrests, serve warrants and other
process within said territory.
   Section 2. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after the
date of its ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 1st day of
April, 1947.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   10.19   Relation to Charter
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Oakboro, North
Carolina shall be designated as the Oakboro Code of Ordinances or Oakboro
Municipal Code, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Oakboro, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Stanly, North Carolina.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Mayor and legislative body, or governing body, of
the Town of Oakboro, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Oakboro, North Carolina.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this municipality.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the municipality and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way
between abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Oakboro, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the legislative body.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
municipality or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any municipal officer or
employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the municipality;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the municipality;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the
municipality;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the municipality
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
municipality; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the municipality.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Oakboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Oakboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (B)   The section headings, any notes following sections, and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19 RELATION TO CHARTER.
   This code, or any part thereof, shall not be interpreted so as to alter or
modify the requirements of the municipal Charter relating to the power and
authority granted therein to the municipality, the municipal legislative body,
or any individual municipal official. It is the intent of this code to
establish provisions and procedures for implementing and expediting municipal
powers and duties granted by the Charter.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of
the provisions of any section or division of this code of ordinances is subject
to the criminal penalties specified in the chapters, divisions and sections of
this code of ordinances. In no case shall criminal penalties exceed a Class 3
misdemeanor and/or be subject to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that any
of the provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of
any provision of this code or any other town ordinance shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100; except that where the state
statutes provide specific remedies for violations of provisions of this code
adopted pursuant to such statutes, such remedies available to the town for
enforcement of this code shall be in addition to the remedies hereinafter
stated. Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or other town ordinance shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Appeals. Except where otherwise specifically provided, a violator may
appeal a notice of violation or a civil citation to the Town Administrator in
which the issuing code enforcement officer serves by notifying the Town
Administrator in writing of the specific grounds for the appeal within the time
frame set forth in the notice or citation. The Town Administrator shall
schedule a hearing on the appeal within a reasonable time, not later than ten
days from receipt of the written notice of appeal and shall consider all
relevant evidence in reaching a decision. The Town Administrator shall issue a
written decision to be served upon the violator not later than five days from
the date of the hearing. Appeals from the decision of the department director
shall be made in writing to the Mayor not later than five days from the date of
service of the decision of the director and shall state with specificity the
grounds for the appeal. The Mayor may delegate any appeal to any other Town
Council member. The Mayor or her or his designee shall schedule a hearing on
the appeal within a reasonable time, not later than ten days from receipt of
the written notice of appeal from the Town Administrator. The Mayor or his
designee shall consider all relevant evidence in reaching a decision and shall
issue a written decision to be served upon the violator not later than five
days from the date of the hearing.
(Res. 19-, passed 5-20-2019)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   TOWN POLICIES
      
32.   IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Absentee voting; local municipal elections
Town Officials
   
30.15   Town Administrator
Town Board of Commissioners
   
30.30   Rules of procedure
   
30.31   Town Board of Commissioners staggered terms
   
30.32   Town Board of Commissioners quorum requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ABSENTEE VOTING; LOCAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   The town hereby approves permitting absentee voting for all local municipal
elections.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Res. passed 3-1-1999)
TOWN OFFICIALS
§ 30.15 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The office of Town Administrator is hereby established, which office
shall be filled at the pleasure of the governing body of the town, with
compensation for the office as the governing body shall determine to be
reasonable and proper, and with the duties and responsibilities hereinafter
conferred upon the office.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall be responsible for the direct
administration of all the departments of the town. He or she shall:
      (1)   Execute the ordinances, resolutions, regulations and orders of the
governing body of the town;
      (2)   Recommend to the governing body of the town acts and measures as he
or she shall deem to be expedient;
      (3)   Make reports to the governing body of the town from time to time;
      (4)   Keep the governing body of the town adequately advised and informed
upon all matters relating to the operation of the town and all of its
departments; and
      (5)   With approval of the governing body, shall have the authority to
appoint and remove heads of all departments.
   (C)   The employees and non-elective officers of the town shall perform
duties as may be required of them by the Town Administrator.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall serve as Budget Officer with duties
prescribed under G.S. § 159-10.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. passed 12-6-2004)
TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.30 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board of Commissioners of the town adopts Suggested Rules of Procedure
for a City Council, Latest Edition University of North Carolina, School of
Government, to be effective immediately.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. passed 3-6-2006)
§ 30.31 TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS STAGGERED TERMS.
   Members of the Town Board of Commissioners are elected to four-year terms.
Terms are staggered. Three Commissioners are elected in one cycle, and the
Mayor and two Commissioners in another cycle.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
§ 30.32 TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS QUORUM REQUIREMENTS.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council, plus the Mayor,
excluding vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A member who has withdrawn
from a meeting without being excused by majority vote of the remaining members
present shall be counted as present for purposes of determining whether or not
a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 30.08) (Res. 93-12-03, passed 12-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-74
CHAPTER 31: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consuming alcohol on town property
   
31.02   Smoking prohibited in state government buildings and state vehicles
   31.03   Employment of relatives
   
31.04   Contracting with small and minority firms
   
31.05   Equal employment and procurement
Drug-Free Workplace Policy
   
31.20   Purpose and goal
   
31.21   Covered workers
   
31.22   Applicability
   
31.23   Prohibited behavior
   
31.24   Notification of convictions
   
31.25   Searches
   
31.26   Drug testing
   
31.27   Consequences
   
31.28   Return-to-work agreements
   
31.29   Assistance
   
31.30   Confidentiality
   
31.31   Shared responsibility
   
31.32   Communication
   
31.33   Acknowledgment
Citizen Participation Plan; Community Development Block Grant Program
   
31.45   Adoption
   
31.46   Introduction
   
31.47   Objectives of the plan
   
31.48   Citizen involvement
   
31.49   Citizen access to records
   
31.50   Timely information and submission of views and proposals
   
31.51   Response to proposals or complaints
   
31.52   Citizen Participation Plan certification
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONSUMING ALCOHOL ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic beverages, as
defined by G.S. § 18B-101(4), on property owned or occupied by the town.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. passed 8-3-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.02 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN STATE GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND STATE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding G.S. Chapter 143, Article 64 pertaining to state-
controlled buildings, smoking is prohibited inside state government buildings
except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   Smoking is permitted inside state government buildings that are used
for medical or scientific research to the extent that smoking is an integral
part of the research. Smoking permitted under this division (B) shall be
confined to the area where the research is being conducted.
   (C)   The individual in charge of the state government building or the
individual’s designee shall post signs in conspicuous areas of the building.
The signs shall state that “smoking is prohibited” and may include the
international “no smoking” symbol, which consists of a pictorial representation
of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it. In
addition, the individual in charge of the building or the individual’s designee
shall:
      (1)   Direct a person who is smoking inside the building to extinguish
the lighted smoking product; and
      (2)   In a state psychiatric hospital, provide written notice to
individuals upon admittance that smoking is prohibited inside the building and
obtain the signature of the individual or the individual’s representative
acknowledging receipt of the notice.
   (D)   Smoking is prohibited inside state vehicles. The individual or the
individual’s designee in charge of assigning the vehicle shall place one or
more signs in conspicuous areas of the vehicle. The signs shall state that
“smoking is prohibited” and may include the international “no smoking” symbol,
which consists of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in
a red circle with a red bar across it. If the vehicle is used for undercover
law enforcement operations, a sign is not required to be placed in the vehicle
as provided in this division (D).
   (E)   Notwithstanding G.S. § 130A-25, a violation of G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 23 shall not be punishable as a criminal violation.
(G.S. § 130A-493) (Prior Code, § 31.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.04 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Board prohibits the employment of any person in a
permanent position who is within the degree of relationship described herein to
the Town Mayor, member of the Board of Commissioners, Town Manager, Assistant
Town Manager, Town Clerk, Finance Director or Town Attorney.
      (2)   The degree of relationship between the elected or appointed
officials of the town and one who would otherwise be eligible for employment as
a town employee is that of spouse, child, parent or step-parent or brother or
sister, grandparent or grandchild, son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
   (B)   In the event that an existing permanent employee of the town is
related to one who, subsequent to his or her employment, is elected Town Mayor
or member of the Board of Commissioners, or one who is hired as Town Manager,
Assistant Town Manager, Town Clerk, Finance Director or Town Attorney, then,
upon his or her being sworn into office, or upon the commencement of his or her
employment in those capacities, as the case may be, the existing employee must
resign, and if the employee refuses to resign, then the matter shall be a cause
for termination.
   (C)   It is prohibited for one Commissioner to employ or contract, in any
fashion, with any other Commissioner or his or her immediate family for the
delivery of goods or services for pay. For the purpose of this section,
IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall include spouses, children, parents or brothers or
sisters.
(Prior Code, § 31.05) (Ord. passed 1-8-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.05 CONTRACTING WITH SMALL AND MINORITY FIRMS.
   The town hereby resolves to adopt a policy for contracting with small and
minority firms, to be used throughout the implementation of all projects
implemented, effective May 18, 2010, and thereafter. A copy of the policy shall
be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
§ 31.06 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT.
   (A)   The town maintains the policy of providing equal employment
opportunities for all persons regardless of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, disability, age, political affiliation, HIV-positive
individuals or any other non-merit factor, except where religion, sex, national
origin or age are bona fide occupation qualifications for employment.
   (B)   In furtherance of this policy, the town prohibits any retaliatory
action of any kind taken by any employee of the town against any other employee
or applicant for employment because that person made a charge, testified,
assisted or participated in any manner in a hearing, proceeding or
investigation of employment discrimination.
   (C)   The town shall strive for greater utilization of all persons by
identifying previously underutilized groups in the work force, such as
minorities, women and the disabled, and making special efforts toward their
recruitment, selection, development and upward mobility and any other term,
condition or privilege of employment.
   (D)   Responsibility for implementing equal opportunities and affirmative
action measures is hereby assigned to the Mayor and/or other persons designated
by the Mayor or the Board of Commissioners to assist in the implementation of
this policy statement.
   (E)   (1)   The town shall develop a self-evaluation mechanism to provide
for periodic examination and evaluation.
      (2)   Periodic reports as requested on the progress of equal employment
opportunity and affirmative action will be presented to the Board of
Commissioners by the Mayor.
   (F)   The town is committed to this policy and is aware that with its
implementation, the town will receive positive benefits through the greater
utilization and development of all of its human resources.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Res. passed 9-7-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE POLICY
§ 31.20 PURPOSE AND GOAL.
   (A)   The town is committed to protecting the safety, health and well-being
of all employees and other individuals in our workplace. The town recognizes
that alcohol abuse and drug use pose a significant threat to our goals.
   (B)   The town has established a drug-free workplace program that balances
its respect for individuals with the need to maintain an alcohol and drug-free
environment.
      (1)   This policy recognizes that employee involvement with alcohol and
other drugs can be very disruptive, adversely affect the quality of work and
performance of employees, pose serious health risks to users and others and
have a negative impact on productivity and morale.
      (2)   The town has no intention of interfering with the private lives of
its employees unless involvement with alcohol and other drugs off the job
affects job performance or public safety.
      (3)   As a condition of employment, the town requires that employees
adhere to a strict policy regarding the use and possession of drugs and
alcohol.
      (4)   This organization encourages employees to voluntarily seek help
with drug and alcohol problems.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.21 COVERED WORKERS.
   (A)   Any individual who conducts business for the town, is applying for a
position or is conducting business on the town’s property is covered by the
town’s drug-free workplace policy.
   (B)   The town’s policy includes, but is not limited to, CEO, executive
management, managers, supervisors, full-time employees, part-time employees,
volunteers and interns.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.22 APPLICABILITY.
   The town’s drug-free workplace policy is intended to apply whenever anyone
is representing or conducting business for the town. Therefore, this policy
applies during all working hours, whenever conducting business or representing
the town, while on call, paid standby, while on town property and at town
sponsored events.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.23 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It is a violation of the town’s drug-free workplace policy to use, possess,
sell, trade and/or offer for sale alcohol, illegal drugs or intoxicants.
(Prior Code, § 31.23) (Res. passed 6-21-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.24 NOTIFICATION OF CONVICTIONS.
   Any employee who is convicted of a criminal drug violation in the workplace
must notify the town in writing within five calendar days of the conviction.
The town will take appropriate action within 30 days of notification. Federal
contracting agencies will be notified when appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.25 SEARCHES.
   (A)   Entering the town’s property constitutes consent to searches and
inspections. If an individual is suspected of violating the drug-free workplace
policy, he or she may be asked to submit to a search or inspection at any time.
   (B)   Searches can be conducted of pockets and clothing, lockers, wallets,
purses, briefcases and lunch boxes, desks and workstations, vehicles and
equipment and all town property.
(Prior Code, § 31.25) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.26 DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   To ensure the accuracy and fairness of the town’s testing program, all
testing will be conducted according to DHHS/SAMHSA guidelines where applicable
and will include a screening test; a confirmation test; the opportunity for a
split sample; review by a medical review officer, including the opportunity for
employees who test positive to provide a legitimate medical explanation such as
a physician’s prescription for the positive result; and a documented chain of
custody.
   (B)   All drug-testing information will be maintained in separate
confidential records.
   (C)   Each employee, as a condition of employment, will be required to
participate in pre-employment, pre-duty, periodic, post-accident, reasonable
suspicion, return-to-duty and follow-up testing upon selection or request of
management. Additionally, random drug tests may be done for safety sensitive
positions, e.g., maintenance workers, equipment operators, plant operators, law
enforcement and the like.
   (D)   The substances that will be tested for are amphetamines, cannabinoids,
cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP) and alcohol.
   (E)   Testing for the presence of alcohol will be conducted by analysis of
breath or saliva or blood. Testing for the presence of the metabolites of drugs
will be conducted by the analysis of urine or blood or hair.
   (F)   Any employee who tests positive will be terminated immediately.
   (G)   An employee will be subject to the same consequences of a positive
test if he or she refuses the screening or the test, adulterates or dilutes the
specimen, substitutes the specimen with that from another person or sends an
imposter, will not sign the required forms or refuses to cooperate in the
testing process in a way that prevents completion of the test.
(Prior Code, § 31.26) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.27 CONSEQUENCES.
   (A)   One of the goals of the town’s drug-free workplace program is to
encourage employees to voluntarily seek help with alcohol and/or drug problems.
If, however, an individual violates the policy, the consequences are serious.
   (B)   In the case of applicants, if he or she violates the drug-free
workplace policy, the offer of employment can be withdrawn. The applicant may
not reapply.
   (C)   If an employee violates the policy, he or she may be terminated from
employment immediately.
(Prior Code, § 31.27) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.28 RETURN-TO-WORK AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Following a violation of the drug-free workplace policy, an employee
may be offered an opportunity to participate in rehabilitation.
   (B)   In those cases, the employee must sign and abide by the terms set
forth in a return-to-work agreement as a condition of continued employment.
(Prior Code, § 31.28) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.29 ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The town recognizes that alcohol and drug abuse and addiction are
treatable illnesses. The town also realizes that early intervention and support
improve the success of rehabilitation.
   (B)   To support the town’s employees, the drug-free workplace policy:
      (1)   Encourages employees to seek help if they are concerned that they
or their family members may have a drug and/or alcohol problem; and
      (2)   Treatment for alcoholism and/or other drug use disorders may be
covered by the employee benefit plan. However, the ultimate financial
responsibility for recommended treatment belongs to the employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.29) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.30 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   All information received by the town through the drug-free workplace program
is confidential communication. Access to this information is limited to those
who have a legitimate need to know in compliance with relevant laws and
management policies.
(Prior Code, § 31.30) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.31 SHARED RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A safe and productive drug-free workplace is achieved through
cooperation and shared responsibility. Both employees and management have
important roles to play.
   (B)   All employees are required to not report to work or be subject to duty
while their ability to perform job duties is impaired due to on- or off-duty
use of alcohol or other drugs.
   (C)   In addition, employees are encouraged to:
      (1)   Be concerned about working in a safe environment;
      (2)   Support fellow workers in seeking help; and
      (3)   Report dangerous behavior to their supervisor.
   (D)   It is the supervisor’s responsibility to:
      (1)   Inform employees of the drug-free workplace policy;
      (2)   Observe employee performance;
      (3)   Investigate reports of dangerous practices;
      (4)   Document negative changes and problems in performance;
      (5)   Counsel employees as to expected performance improvement; and
      (6)   Clearly state consequences of policy violations.
(Prior Code, § 31.31) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.32 COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   Communicating the town’s drug-free workplace policy to both
supervisors and employees is critical to its success.
   (B)   To ensure all employees are aware of their role in supporting the
drug-free workplace program:
      (1)   All employees will receive a written copy of the policy and
acknowledge receipt; and
      (2)   The policy will be reviewed in orientation sessions with new
employees.
(Prior Code, § 31.32) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
§ 31.33 ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
 
   This will certify that I,                                                    have been given a copy of the Town Of Oakboro Drug-
Free Workplace Policy and I fully understand said policy and agree to comply with all terms and requirements set forth herein.
 
Employee:                                             
Date:                                                    
 
Witness:                                                
Date:                                                    
 
(Prior Code, § 31.33) (Res. passed 6-21-2005)
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN;
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
§ 31.45 ADOPTION.
   The town hereby adopts the following Citizen Participation Plan to be used
throughout the implementation of the town’s community development block grant
project.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.46 INTRODUCTION.
   Pursuant to Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, the town, which received community
development block grant (CDBG) funds, has prepared a written Citizen
Participation Plan. Through this plan, citizens will be provided adequate
opportunity for meaningful involvement on a continuing basis and for
participation in planning, implementation and assessment of the town’s
Community Development Program. The town shall provide adequate information to
citizens, hold public hearings at the initial stage of the planning process and
throughout the program to obtain the views and proposals of citizens, and
provide citizens an opportunity to comment on the town’s past performance. This
Citizen Participation Plan is to serve as a citizens’ guide to interacting with
the Community Development Program in a meaningful way and to establish a
process whereby citizen participation requirements will be met.
(Prior Code, § 30.21) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.47 OBJECTIVES OF THE PLAN.
   The objectives of this Citizen Participation Plan are to:
   (A)   Provide citizens with adequate information on a timely basis
concerning the amount of funds available for proposed community development and
housing activities, the range of activities that may be undertaken and other
important program requirements;
   (B)   Provide citizens an opportunity to: participate in the development of
the application and encourage the submission of written views and proposals
particularly by residents of blighted neighborhoods or citizens of low/moderate
income; provide for timely responses to the proposals submitted; and schedule
hearings at times and locations which permit broad participation;
   (C)   Provide for public hearings to obtain the views of citizens on
community development and housing needs and a timetable specifying when and how
the objectives of this plan will be achieved;
   (D)   Provide for timely and responsive answers to written complaints and
give citizens an opportunity to submit comments concerning the town’s community
development performance;
   (E)   Provide technical assistance on a timely basis through staff or other
resources to citizen advisory groups, and upon request of groups of low/
moderate income persons and groups of residents in blighted neighborhoods; and
   (F)   Assure record keeping to document that this plan has been followed in
a manner to achieve full involvement of citizens in all stages of the program
and provide documents relevant to the Community Development Program for public
view.
(Prior Code, § 30.22) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.48 CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT.
   Citizens’ level of participation will be town-wide in scope. Town-wide
participation will be accomplished through public hearings and solicitation of
written views and proposals. Through this medium, all citizens will be afforded
an opportunity to present their housing and community development needs,
suggestions and comments on the town’s past performance.
(Prior Code, § 30.23) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.49 CITIZEN ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The town will provide for full and timely disclosure of information and
program records consistent with .0911 (Record Keeping) of the State Community
Development Block Grant Regulations. The records and information relevant to
the program will be made available in the Town Hall located at 109-A North Main
Street, Oakboro, North Carolina 28129 during regular office hours for citizens’
review and copying upon request. Documents to be made available include:
   (A)   All mailings and promotional materials;
   (B)   Records of public hearings;
   (C)   All key documents such as prior applications, letters of approval,
grant agreements, the Citizen Participation Plan, performance reports, progress
reports, other reports and documentation required by the State Department of
Commerce (DOC), and the proposed and approved application for the current year;
and
   (D)   Copies of regulations and any issuance governing the program.
(Prior Code, § 30.24) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.50 TIMELY INFORMATION AND SUBMISSION OF VIEWS AND PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The citizen participation process will begin approximately 60 to 90
days prior to the established deadline for submission of an application. The
Stanly News and Press will be the primary medium for dissemination of important
program information. All advertisements for public notice will be published in
this newspaper.
   (B)   At the minimum, the town shall provide adequate information to
citizens, hold a public hearing at the initial stage of the planning process,
hold a public hearing prior to the submission of the application and hold a
public hearing prior to the close-out of the program to provide an opportunity
for citizens to comment on the town’s CDBG Program performance.
   (C)   The purpose of the first public hearing at the planning stage of the
application will be to disseminate program information, obtain citizens’ views
on community development and housing needs, priorities and citizens’ comments
on the town’s past performance.
   (D)   (1)   A second public hearing will be held prior to the submission of
the full application for additional written comments and review of the
application.
      (2)   Persons wishing to object to the approval of an application by the
DOC shall make that objection in writing.
   (E)   The DOC will consider objections made only on the following grounds.
      (1)   The town’s description of the needs and objectives is plainly
inconsistent with available facts and data.
      (2)   The activities to be undertaken are plainly inappropriate to
meeting the needs and objectives identified by the town.
      (3)   The application does not comply with the requirements of Subchapter
1002 of the program regulations or other applicable laws and regulations.
   (F)   All objections shall include an identification of the requirements not
met. In case of objections made on the grounds that the description of needs
and objectives is plainly inconsistent with significant, generally available
facts and data, the objections shall include the data upon which the objection
is based.
   (G)   Citizen participation in the program amendment process shall include
the following.
      (1)   The town, when proposing amendments which require prior DOC
approval in accordance with Subchapter .0910 (program amendments) of the
program regulations, will be required to hold one public hearing prior to
submission of the amendment to the DOC.
      (2)   The town shall respond to written objections and comments within
ten calendar days of receipt of the citizen comment.
      (3)   Persons wishing to object to the approval of an amendment by the
DOC shall make the objection in writing. The DOC will consider objections made
only on the following grounds.
         (a)   The town’s description of the needs and objectives is plainly
inconsistent with available facts and data.
         (b)   The activities to be undertaken are plainly inappropriate to
meeting the needs and objectives identified by the town.
         (c)   The application does not comply with the requirements of
Subchapter .1002 of the program regulations or other applicable laws and
regulations.
   (H)   All objections shall include an identification of the requirements not
met. In case of objections made on the grounds that the description of needs
and objectives is plainly inconsistent with significant, generally available
facts and data, the objections shall include the data upon which the objection
is based.
   (I)   Citizen participation in the program close-out process shall include
the following.
      (1)   The town, when proposing the close-out of the CDBG Program in
accordance with Subchapter .0913 (program closeout) of the program regulations,
will be required to hold one public hearing to assess program performance
during the close-out process prior to the actual close-out of the grant.
      (2)   The town shall continue to solicit and respond to written
objections and comments until a time as the program is closed.
   (J)   Citizens shall have the opportunity to comment on the implementation
of the Community Development Program throughout the term of the program. The
town shall solicit and respond to written views and proposals of citizens in
writing within ten calendar days of receipt of the citizen comment. Citizen
participation concerning program implementation and compliance shall include
the following:
      (1)   Persons may submit written comments to the DOC at any time
concerning the town’s failure to comply with the requirements contained in the
Citizen Participation Plan; and
      (2)   (a)   All records of public hearings, citizen comments, responses
to comments and other relevant documents and papers shall be kept in accordance
with Subchapter .0911 of the program regulations.
         (b)   All public hearings will be held in the Town Hall before the
Town Board. Notice of these hearings will be given by advertisement once in the
non-legal section of the Stanly News and Press not less than ten days nor more
than 25 days before the date of the meeting.
         (c)   The advertisement will indicate the date, time, place and
procedures of the hearing and topics that will be considered. In the event that
a significant number of non-English speaking residents can be reasonably
expected to participate in a public hearing, the town will arrange to provide
an interpreter at the hearing to ensure the participation of and dissemination
of information to the non-English speaking persons.
         (d)   Public hearings will be held at times and locations convenient
to actual or potential beneficiaries and will be held in facilities that are
accessible to the disabled.
(Prior Code, § 30.25) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.51 RESPONSE TO PROPOSALS OR COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The town views citizen participation as a valuable aspect of its
Community Development Program. Through this Citizen Participation Plan,
citizens are afforded an opportunity to express their community development and
housing needs and preferences about how funds may be spent in their community.
   (B)   Citizens or citizen groups are encouraged to submit written proposals
or complaints at any stage during the Community Development Program. These
comments should be directed to: Mayor of Town of Oakboro, P.O. Box 610, 109-
A North Main Street, Oakboro, North Carolina 28129. When written proposals or
written complaints are received, a written response will be made within ten
calendar days after receipt by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.26) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
§ 31.52 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   The Town of Oakboro assures and certifies that a Citizen Participation
Plan has been written and will be followed as required by the Housing and
Community Development Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.
   (B)   The Town’s Citizen Participation Plan accomplishes the following:
      (1)   Provides for citizen participation, with particular emphasis on
participation by persons of low/moderate income who are residents of slum and
blighted areas, and provides for participation of residents of low/moderate
income neighborhoods as defined by local jurisdiction;
      (2)   Provides citizens with reasonable and timely access to local
meetings, information and records relating to the town’s proposed use of funds;
      (3)   Provides for technical assistance to groups representative of
persons of low/moderate income that request the assistance in developing
proposals, with level and type of assistance to be determined by the town;
      (4)   Provides for public hearings to obtain citizen views and to respond
to proposals and questions to all stages of the community development program,
including at least the development of needs, the review of proposed activities
and the review of program performance. Hearings shall be held after adequate
notice, at times and locations convenient to potential or actual beneficiaries
and with accommodation for the disabled;
      (5)   Provides for a timely answer to written complaints and grievances,
within ten calendar days; and
      (6)   Identifies how the needs of non-English speaking residents will be
met in the case of public hearings where a significant number of non-English
speaking residents are reasonably expected to participate.
(Prior Code, § 30.27) (Res. passed 4-7-1997)
CHAPTER 32: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION
Section
   
32.01   Program adoption
   
32.02   Program purpose and definitions
   
32.03   Identification of red flags
   
32.04   Detecting red flags
   
32.05   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
32.06   Program updates
   
32.07   Program administration
§ 32.01 PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   The town developed this Identity Theft Prevention Program (“Program”)
pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule (“Rule”), which
implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (16
C.F.R. § 681.2). This program was developed with oversight and approval of the
Town Board of Commissioners. After consideration of the size and complexity of
the municipality’s operations and account systems, and the nature and scope of
the municipality activities, the Town Board of Commissioners determined that
this program was appropriate for the town, and therefore approved this program
on October 6, 2008.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.02 PROGRAM PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Fulfilling requirements of the Red Flags Rule. Under the Red Flag
Rule, every financial institution and creditor is required to establish an
“Identity Theft Prevention Program” tailored to its size, complexity and the
nature of its operation. Each program must contain reasonable policies and
procedures to:
      (1)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered accounts
and incorporate those red flags into the program;
      (2)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
      (3)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent
and mitigate identity theft; and
      (4)   Ensure the program is updated periodically to reflect changes in
risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from identity
theft.
   (B)   Red Flags Rule definitions used in this program. For the purpose of
this chapter and the Red Flags Rule, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COVERED ACCOUNT. All the utility’s accounts that are individual utility
service accounts held by customers of the utility whether residential,
commercial or industrial are covered by the Rule. Under the Rule, a COVERED
ACCOUNT is:
         (a)   Any account the municipality offers or maintains primarily for
personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and
         (b)   Any other account the municipality offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the utility from identity theft.
      CREDITORS. Include finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage
brokers, utility companies and telecommunications companies. Where non-profit
and government entities defer payment for goods or services, they, too, are to
be considered CREDITORS. According to the Rule, a municipal utility is a
CREDITOR subject to the Rule requirements.
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, date of
birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
internet protocol address or routing code.
      IDENTITY THEFT. Fraud committed using the identifying information of
another person.
      RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.03 IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   In order to identify relevant red flags, the municipality considers the
types of accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open
its accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts and its previous
experiences with identity theft. The municipality identifies the following red
flags, in each of the listed categories.
   (A)   Notifications and warnings from credit reporting agencies. Red flags:
      (1)   Report of fraud accompanying a credit report;
      (2)   Notice or report from a credit agency of a credit freeze on a
customer or applicant;
      (3)   Notice or report from a credit agency of an active-duty alert for
an applicant; and
      (4)   Indication from a credit report of activity that is inconsistent
with a customer’s usual pattern or activity.
   (B)   Suspicious documents. Red flags:
      (1)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged, altered
or inauthentic;
      (2)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the document;
      (3)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
      (4)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Red flags:
      (1)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates);
      (2)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
sources of information (for instance, an address not matching an address on a
credit report);
      (3)   Identifying information presented that is the same as information
shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
      (4)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
      (5)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given by
another customer;
      (6)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
      (7)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information
on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law Social Security
numbers must not be required); and
      (8)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
   (D)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account. Red flags:
      (1)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
      (2)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
      (3)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
      (4)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
      (5)   Notice to the municipality that a customer is not receiving mail
sent by the utility;
      (6)   Notice to the municipality that an account has unauthorized
activity;
      (7)   Breach in the municipality’s computer system security; and
      (8)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
   (E)   Alerts from others. Red flag: notice to the municipality from a
customer, identity theft victim, law enforcement or other person that it has
opened or is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.04 DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified above
associated with the opening of a new account, municipality personnel will take
the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the
account:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
      (4)   Independently contact the customer.
   (B)   Existing accounts. In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above for an existing account, municipality personnel will take the following
steps to monitor transactions with an account:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to change billing addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.05 PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   In the event municipality personnel detect any identified red flags, the
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag:
   (A)   Prevent and mitigate.
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (7)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
      (8)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (9)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protect customer identifying information. In order to further prevent
the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to municipality
accounts, the municipality will take the following steps with respect to its
internal operating procedures to protect customers’ identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Ensure complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (5)   Request only the last four digits of Social Security numbers (if
any);
      (6)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (7)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.06 PROGRAM UPDATES.
   (A)   (1)   This program will be periodically reviewed and updated to
reflect changes in risks to customers and the soundness of the utility from
identity theft.
      (2)   At least every two years, the Program Administrator will consider
the municipality experiences with identity theft situations, changes in
identity theft methods, changes in identity theft detection and prevention
methods, changes in types of accounts the municipality maintains and changes in
the municipality business arrangements with other entities.
   (B)   (1)   After considering these factors, the Program Administrator will
determine whether changes to the program, including the listing of red flags,
are warranted.
      (2)   If warranted, the Program Administrator will update the program or
present the Town Board of Commissioners with his or her recommended changes,
and the Town Board of Commissioners will make a determination of whether to
accept, modify or reject those changes to the program.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
§ 32.07 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight. Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this program lies with an Identity Theft Committee for the utility. The
Committee is headed by a Program Administrator, who may be the head of the
utility or his or her appointee. Two or more other individuals appointed by the
head of the utility or the Program Administrator comprise the remainder of the
Committee membership. The Program Administrator will be responsible for the
program administration, for ensuring appropriate training of municipality staff
on the program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of red
flags and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining
which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular
circumstances and considering periodic changes to the program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports. Utility staff responsible for implementing
the program shall be trained either by or under the direction of the Program
Administrator in the detection of red flags, and the responsive steps to be
taken when a red flag is detected. Designated employees will be trained on a
need- to-know basis according to job responsibilities.
      (1)   Committee members participate in a two-and-one-half hour
professional association Identity Theft Prevention Program workshop covering
principles of needs assessment, program design, development, implementation and
evaluation. Strategies for revision and reporting were included. Committee
members unable to attend will receive one on one training by a workshop
attendee:
         (a)   Supervisors: initial two-hour program addresses the safeguarding
of secured information; and
         (b)   Employee: initial two-hour program addresses the safeguarding of
secured information.
      (2)   Annual updates will be provided for all designated employees.
Sessions, to be a minimum of 30 minutes, will include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Patterns of incidents, changes in information technology,
changes in methods of identity theft, results of evaluations, seek employee
input on strategies for enhancing Identity Theft Prevention Program;
         (b)   Documentation of training; and
         (c)   New employees hired into positions handling secured information
will receive initial training within 30 days from date of employment.
   (C)   Service provider arrangements. In the event the municipality engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
accounts, the municipality will take the following steps to ensure the service
provider performs its activity in accordance with reasonable policies and
procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of identity theft:
      (1)   Require, by contract, that service providers have the policies and
procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract, that service providers review the utility’s
program and report any red flags to the Program Administrator.
   (D)   Specific program elements and confidentiality. For the effectiveness
of identity theft prevention programs, the Red Flag Rule envisions a degree of
confidentiality regarding the municipality specific practices relating to
identity theft detection, prevention and mitigation. Therefore, under this
program, knowledge of the specific practices is to be limited to the Identity
Theft Committee and those employees who need to know them for purposes of
preventing identity theft. Because this program is to be adopted by a public
body and thus publicly available, it would be counterproductive to list these
specific practices here. Therefore, only the program’s general red flag
detection, implementation and prevention practices are listed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. passed 10-6-2008)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
33.01   Capital Reserve Fund
   
33.02   Capital Improvement Program
   
33.03   Interlocal Risk Financing Fund
§ 33.01 CAPITAL RESERVE FUND.
   The Finance Officer of the town shall establish a Capital Reserve Fund
within the water and wastewater budget to receive all remaining funds at the
end of each fiscal year for the purpose of providing the necessary funds for
water and wastewater capital expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Res. passed 5-27-1999)
§ 33.02 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The town has established a 20-year Capital Improvement Plan to assist the
town in rationally and intelligently planning for the repair, replacement and/
or acquisition of capital items; to assist in financial planning by forecasting
capital needs together with future revenues/expenditures; to ensure better
coordination, evaluation and planning of capital needs to better serve the
community; and to serve as a decision-making guide for the town to anticipate
and meet the long-range capital needs for the town in order to better serve the
citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Res. passed 7-16-2001)
§ 33.03 INTERLOCAL RISK FINANCING FUND.
   (A)   The town elects to become a member of the Interlocal Risk Financing
Fund of North Carolina upon the terms and conditions stated in the “Interlocal
Agreement for a Group Self-Insurance Pool For Property and Liability Risk
Sharing,” with future policy renewals constituting a continuing ratification of
this decision to be a member of the Fund and to abide by the terms and
conditions of the interlocal agreement.
   (B)   The duly authorized officials of the above named unit of local
government are directed to execute in the name of the unit the “Interlocal
Agreement for a Group Self-Insurance Pool For Property and Liability Risk
Sharing,” a copy of which is attached to and made a part of this section.
(Prior Code, § 30.05) (Res. passed 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 34: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Police power extended
   
34.02   Mutual assistance with other law enforcement agencies
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 POLICE POWER EXTENDED.
   The police power of the town be and is hereby extended to embrace all
territory within a radius of two miles of the corporate limits of the town, and
the police officers of the town are authorized and empowered to make arrests,
serve warrants and other process within the territory.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. passed 4-1-1947)
§ 34.02 MUTUAL ASSISTANCE WITH OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter into mutual
assistance arrangements with other municipal and county law enforcement
agencies, provided that the head of the requesting law enforcement agency makes
a request in writing.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to permit officers of the
Town Police Department to work temporarily with officers of the requesting
agency, including in an undercover capacity, and the Chief of Police may lend
the equipment and supplies to requesting agencies as he or she deems advisable.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to request officers of other
law enforcement agencies to work temporarily with the officers of the Town
Police Department, including in an undercover capacity; and the Chief of Police
may borrow the equipment and supplies from other law enforcement agencies, as
he or she deems advisable.
   (D)   All the requests and authorizations shall be in accordance with G.S.
§§ 90-95.2 and 160A-288, as applicable.
   (E)   While working with a requesting agency, an officer shall have the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities (including those
relating to the defense of civil actions and payment of judgements) as the
officers of the requesting agency in addition to those he or she normally
possesses.
   (F)   While on duty with the requesting agency, an officer shall be subject
to the lawful operational commands of his or her superior officers in the
requesting agency, but he or she shall, for personnel and administrative
purposes, remain under the control of his or her own agency, including for
purpose of pay. An officer shall furthermore be entitled to worker’s
compensation and the same benefits to the extent as though he or she were
functioning within the normal scope of his or her duties.
   (G)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to enter into mutual
assistance agreements with other law enforcement agencies in accordance with
reasonable arrangements, terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the
respective heads of the law enforcement agencies.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Res. passed 6-5-2000)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RUBBISH
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER GENERALLY
      
53.   SEWER USE ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   County Solid Waste Management Plan
§ 50.01 COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The town hereby approves the County Comprehensive Solid Waste Management
Plan.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Res. passed 3-2-2009)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Refuse required to be deposited in approved containers
   
51.03   Burning or burying garbage and refuse regulated
   
51.04   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
51.05   Containers required
   
51.06   Pre-collection practices
   
51.07   Collection schedule
   
51.08   Special or bulk collections regulated
   
51.09   Removal of dead animals
   
51.10   Business, commercial, multi-family group housing developments
   
51.11   Hazardous waste
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings thereof.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle provided by the franchise collector constructed of
plastic, metal or fiberglass permanently attached to wheels, designed to be
picked up by the franchise-holder’s equipment and commonly known as a ROLL OUT
CART.
   FRANCHISED COLLECTORS. Any person, firm or corporation entering in a
contract with the town for the collection and removal of garbage, rubbish and
trash from within the town.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including SOLID WASTE materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005)
§ 51.02 REFUSE REQUIRED TO BE DEPOSITED IN APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for
the purpose of disposal.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful to burn any refuse for the purpose
of disposal unless written permission therefor has been granted by the Fire
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   Every building or premises where garbage and refuse does or may exist shall
be provided containers in which shall be deposited all garbage and refuse
existing at the building or premises. All containers shall be kept in a
reasonably clean condition.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection. Ashes and cinders shall not be placed in a container until they
are cold.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town’s franchised
collector according to a collection schedule maintained in the Clerk’s office,
but in all events at least once a week. The schedule may be periodically
revised and amended by action of the Town Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   The owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises shall be
responsible for causing the container to be placed at the curb or side of the
street, but not in the portion of the street for vehicular travel, at a place
readily accessible for collection by the franchised collector’s crew on the day
of the week designated for collection.
      (2)   The container shall be so located not earlier than 4:00 p.m. on the
day prior to the day of pick up, not later than 8:00 a.m. on the day of pick up
and must be removed from the street location not later than 4:00 p.m. on the
day following the day of pick up.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No bulk trash, tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings, leaves and other refuse
will be collected without special charge unless refuse can be placed in
regulation type garbage cans, with the following exceptions: tree limbs of less
than six feet in length and less than four inches in diameter, when properly
stacked at roadside and in quantities deemed reasonable by the Supervisor of
the Sanitation Department, may be collected by the town; leaves may be
collected when piled at roadside in accordance with a schedule maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Any property owner desiring special bulk collections of loose matter
may request a special collection for which a special charge will be made. If
sufficient manpower and equipment are available, town personnel are authorized
to make the special collections; provided the person making the request agrees
to pay for the labor and equipment used at the rate specified by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots, nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs or other heavy objects be
collected. No waste building materials or lot clearings shall be collected from
the houses or other structures under construction or recently completed.
   (D)   Materials to be collected by special collections shall be placed in
neat piles and located so that the refuse can be easily loaded on trucks for
disposal.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed from any premises upon notice to the Town Clerk
of the existence of the dead animals.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, MULTI-FAMILY GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Solid waste collection at small commercial businesses shall be limited
to one container per collection. Small commercial businesses exceeding those
limitations shall be required to utilize a container service and shall be
responsible for 100% of the cost.
   (B)   Solid waste collection at multi-family group housing developments
shall be limited to those of seven units or less. Group housing developments
exceeding those limitations shall be required to utilize a container service
and shall be responsible for 100% of the cost.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   No hazardous solid or liquid waste shall be put in a container or any
receptacle for collection.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. passed 1-18-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water supply source
   
52.02   Water conservation
   
52.03   Water and sewer user charge rates
Fats, Oils and Greases
   
52.15   Scope and purpose
   
52.16   Definitions
   
52.17   Grease interceptor maintenance; record keeping; grease removal
System Development Fees
   
52.30   Definition
   
52.31   Time of collection
   
52.32   Reservation of water and sewer system capacity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER SUPPLY SOURCE.
   The town proposes to use Yadkin Peedee River as a water supply source as
well as the City of Albemarle and the county as an alternative. The town and
its staff will fully cooperate and provide necessary information to the State
Division of Environmental Management in a timely manner.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Res. passed 10-27-1992)
§ 52.02 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this program is to conserve water as it is in the best
interest of all. Conserving water saves money and energy and it protects one of
the state’s most valuable resources.
   (B)   The town recognizes the need for water conservation, therefore, in an
effort to encourage residents to use this resource wisely, the town is
initiating a water conservation incentive program.
   (C)   This program is to become effective June 1, 1999, and the program is
designed to encourage residents connected to the town’s water system to:
      (1)   Replace older, high-use water fixtures with newer, more efficient
low-use fixtures; and
      (2)   Eligible low-use fixtures are listed below.
 
Device               Credit
Low-flow showerheads 5%
Low-flow toilets     10%
Sink faucet aerators 5%
 
   (D)   Residents who choose to participate will receive a credit on their
monthly water bill for three months. The three-month period will be for water
bills from September 1 to November 30.
   (E)   Many untold gallons of water are wasted in the town from inefficient
use of water, such as leaving water running while brushing teeth or taking
baths instead of showers; therefore, installing low-use water fixtures can
significantly reduce this waste. A number of low-use fixtures are available.
Standard showerheads use between four to eight gallons per minute where a low-
use showerhead uses a fraction of the water. Using this type of fixture can
save up to $50 a year in hot water bills. Bathroom faucets are usually used for
small amounts of water, such as shaving or brushing teeth. A conventional
faucet pours out three gallons per minute, whereas a bathroom faucet aerator
only provides one gallon per minute. Kitchen faucets require more than a
bathroom faucet. A standard kitchen faucet provides up to five to seven and
one-half gallons per minute. Kitchen faucet aerators use 30% less water,
providing two and one-half gallons per minute. Toilet flushing is the largest
water user in homes. Standard toilets use three and one-half to seven gallons
per minute of water per flush, adding up to about 10,000 gallons of water per
year. A low-flush toilet uses one to two gallons per flush, significantly
reducing the amount of water used.
   (F)   For residents who wish to participate in the water conservation
program, a deadline of August 31 has been established for residents to install
low-use fixtures in their home.
   (G)   Only certain low-use fixtures are eligible to receive credit. The
installation of low-use fixtures will need to be verified by the town.
   (H)   This will be accomplished in two steps:
      (1)   A receipt for purchase of low-use fixtures will be needed; and
      (2)   To ensure that fixtures have been installed, an inspection by a
town employee or official will be required for verification.
   (I)   The town wishes to encourage all residents to participate so as to
preserve and protect one of its most valuable resources.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Res. passed 5-18-1999)
§ 52.03 WATER AND SEWER USER CHARGE RATES.
   Water and sewer user charge rates shall be set in the adopted Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Res. passed 12-11-2008)
FATS, OILS AND GREASES
§ 52.15 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   General. In an effort to curb sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs) from
grease accumulations in its sanitary sewer mains, the Town Board of
Commissioners adopted this subchapter at its public meeting on February 16,
2009. Any nonresidential facility connected to the town sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system involved in the preparation or serving of foods
will be subject to the conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Scope and purpose. To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulations of fats, oils
and greases into the sewer system from industrial or commercial establishments,
particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
(Prior Code, § 52.15) (Ord. passed 2-16-2009)
§ 52.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS.
      (1)   Establishments primarily engaged in activities of preparing,
serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs and that use
one or more of the following activities: frying (all methods), baking (all
methods), grilling, sautéing, rotisserie, broiling (all methods), boiling,
blanching, roasting, toasting or poaching.
      (2)   Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and may be amended from time to time. All
will be referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   GREASE TRAP OR INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect settleable solids, generated by and from food preparation
activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS AND INTERCEPTORS are sometimes
referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPACITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and its
ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of pre-cooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   USER. Any person, including one located outside the jurisdictional limits of
the town, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge of
wastewater into the POTW, including persons who contribute the wastewater from
mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 52.16) (Ord. passed 2-16-2009)
§ 52.17 GREASE INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE; RECORD KEEPING; GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease interceptors shall be installed by users, as required by the
Director or his or her designee.
      (1)   Grease interceptors shall be installed at the user’s expense, when
the user operates a cooking establishment.
      (2)   Grease interceptors may also be required in non-cooking or cold
dairy and frozen foodstuffs establishments and other industrial or commercial
establishments when they are deemed necessary by the Director for the proper
handling of liquid waste containing grease.
      (3)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity
approved by the Director or his or her designee and shall be readily and easily
accessible for user cleaning and town inspection.
      (4)   All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capacity or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less often than
every 30 days.
      (5)   Users who are required to pass water through a grease interceptor
shall:
         (a)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereinafter as a
sludge pocket;
         (b)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 30 days at the user’s expense. Grease
interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as grit,
rock, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags and the
like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the effective
volume of the grease interceptor;
         (c)   Accept the following conditions: if any skimmed or pumped wastes
or other materials removed from grease interceptor are treated in any fashion
on-site and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor as an activity of and
after the on-site treatment, the user shall be responsible for the attainment
of performance consistent with all discharges of wastewater from grease
interceptor into the town’s sanitary sewer collection and treatment system;
         (d)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device so that attainment of the removal performance is consistently achieved.
If an establishment desires, because of documented space constraints, an
alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request for an
alternate location shall contain the following information:
            1.   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside of building; and
            2.   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing
for all services at that site.
         (e)   Understand and agree that the use of biological additives as a
grease degradation agent is conditionally permissible, upon prior written
approval by the Director. Any establishment using this method of grease
abatement shall maintain the trap or interceptor in a manner so that attainment
of the grease wastewater discharge, as measured from the trap’s outlet, is
consistently best achievable;
         (f)   Understand and agree that the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
Director. Any establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in a
manner so that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge as measured from
the unit’s outlet is consistently best achievable; and
         (g)   Understand and agree that the Director reserves the right to
make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on review of
all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance, facility
site and building plan review and to require repairs to, or modification or
replacements of, the traps.
   (B)   The user shall maintain a written record of trap maintenance for three
years. All the records will be available upon request at all times for
inspection by the town.
   (C)   No non-grease-laden sources can be connected to grease interceptor
service.
   (D)   Except as provided herein, for a period of two years following
adoption of this subchapter, although installation of grease interceptors may
be required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
chapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors.
      (1)   If, during this two-year period, an obstruction of a town sewer
main(s) occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the
environment is realized and that the overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer
collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or whole to an
accumulation of grease in the town’s sewer main(s), the town will take
appropriate enforcement actions, as stipulated in the town’s Sewer Use
Ordinance, against the generator or contributor of the grease. A copy of the
Sewer Use Ordinance shall be in the Town Hall.
      (2)   (a)   Users will be required to use “Best Management Practices” to
prevent the obstructions or overflows.
         (b)   Repeated blockages may require users to install a grease
interceptor and maintain it. Outside grease receptors will be permitted if they
are kept up and grease discharges are permitted to enter the town’s wastewater
system through sinks and the like.
   (E)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow and infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspections, grease removal and wastewater sampling events.
(Prior Code, § 52.17) (Ord. passed 2-16-2009)
SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES
§ 52.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEES. A charge or assessment for service imposed with
respect to new development to fund costs of capital improvements necessitated
by and attributable to such new development, to recoup costs of existing
facilities which serve such new development, or a combination of those costs,
as provided in G.S. Chapter 162A, Water and Sewer Systems, Article 8, System
Development Fees. The term includes amortized charges, lump-sum charges and any
other fee that functions as described by this definition regardless of
terminology. The term does not include any of the following:
      (1)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative, plan review or
inspection costs associated with permits required for development;
      (2)   Tap or hookup charges for the purpose of reimbursing the local
governmental unit for the actual cost of connecting the service unit to the
system;
      (3)   Availability charges;
      (4)   Dedication of capital improvements on-site, adjacent or ancillary
to a development absent a written agreement providing for credit or
reimbursement to the developer pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-320, 160A-499 or G.S.
Chapter 160D, Article 10, Development Agreements; and
      (5)   Reimbursement to the town for its expenses in constructing or
providing for water or sewer utility capital improvements adjacent or ancillary
to the development if the owner or developer has agreed to be financially
responsible for such expenses; however, such reimbursement shall be credited to
any system development fee charged as set forth in G.S. § 162A-207(c).
(Ord. 22-, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 52.31 TIME OF COLLECTION.
   Time of collection shall be as follows.
   (A)   Land subdivision. For new development involving the subdivision of
land, the system development fee shall be collected by the town at the later of
either of the following:
      (1)   The time of application for a building permit; or
      (2)   When the town commits water or sewer service.
   (B)   Other new development. For all other new development, the town shall
collect the system development fee at the earlier of either of the following:
      (1)   The time of application for connection of the individual unit of
development to the service or facilities; or
      (2)   When the town commits water or sewer service.
   (C)   When there is a difference between the fee collected at plat
recordation versus time of building permit application. No system development
fee shall be charged or assessed with respect to any new development for which
a system development fee has been collected at the time of plat recordation
involving the subdivision of land and the amount of capacity associated with
that payment of the system development fee has not increased at the time of
application for a building permit. If the amount of utility system(s) capacity
is increased at the time of application for the building permit, then a system
development fee may be charged for the difference in the amount of the
increased capacity minus the previously collected system development fee.
(Ord. 22-, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 52.32 RESERVATION OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM CAPACITY.
   No water or sewer system capacity is reserved unless and until the system
development fees are paid, or the town enters into a written agreement for the
reservation.
(Ord. 22-, passed 9-19-2022)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE ORDINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
53.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.017   Local limits
   
53.018   State requirements
   
53.019   Right of revision
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
53.023   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
53.035   Purpose
   
53.036   User charges
   
53.037   Surcharges
   
53.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater
   
53.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
53.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
53.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.067   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.070   Reports of potential problems
   
53.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.072   Notice of violations/repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.073   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
53.074   Analytical requirements
   
53.075   Grab and composite sample collection
   
53.076   Timing
   
53.077   Record keeping
   
53.078   Electronic reporting
   
53.079   Special reporting requirements for IUs in satellite POTWs
Compliance Monitoring
   
53.090   Monitoring facilities
   
53.091   Inspection and sampling
   
53.092   Search warrants
   
53.093   Confidential information
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.105   Administrative remedies
   
53.106   Other available remedies
   
53.107   Remedies nonexclusive
   
53.108   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
53.109   Adjudicatory hearings
   
53.110   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
hereafter referred to as the town, and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting the
general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 153A-275 and/or 160A-312. The town shall
designate an administrator of the publicly owned treatment works, or POTW, and
pretreatment program, hereafter referred to as the Utilities Director. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the Utilities Director shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
imposed upon the Utilities Director may be delegated by the Utilities Director
to other town personnel.
   (E)   By discharging wastewater into the town wastewater system, industrial
users located within or outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms
and conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions or orders issued hereunder. This includes all industrial users
discharging in the wastewater collection system owned by any satellite POTW.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
State Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean: the president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
the manager of one or more manufacturing, production or operation facilities,
provided, the manager is authorized to make management decisions which govern
the operation of the regulated facility, including having the explicit or
implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate
and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance
with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems
are established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information
for control mechanism requirements; and where authority to sign documents has
been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate
procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) of this
definition may designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (e)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the Utilities Director prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization’s pretreatment program approval has not been withdrawn.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said
Agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) into the POTW.
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection system,
treatment processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which
causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the control
authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from the control authority) NPDES,
collection system or non-discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or
disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), being
16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq., or more stringent
state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies
to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R.
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342) or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from the EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
53.015 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE. As defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(m), including any subsequent
amendments and additions.
      NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1(d) for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of
the state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly
to surface waters of the state.
      PASSTHROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the control authority’s (and/or POTW’s, if different from
the control authority) NPDES, collection system or non-discharge permit or a
downstream water quality standard even if not included in the permit.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of
wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD,
toxicity and odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The chief administrative officer of the publicly owned
treatment works (POTW) or his or her delegate.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment plant. The reduction
or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any prohibited discharge standard, categorical
standard or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purpose of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or 5% of more of the maximum
allowable headworks loading of the POTW treatment plant for any POTW pollutant
of concern;
         (c)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards under 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471;
         (d)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, or
for contributing to violations of the POTW’s effluent limitations and
conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for contributing to
violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard, or for limiting the POTW’s
sludge disposal options;
         (e)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H.0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
divisions (a) and (b) of this definition has no reasonable potential for
adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment
standards or requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW’s
effluent limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or
for contributing to violations of the POTW’s receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW’s sludge disposal options, and thus is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER;
         (f)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H.0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) of this definition meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(v)
(2) and thus is a non-significant categorical industrial user; and
         (g)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H.0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (c) of this definition meets the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)
(3) and thus is a middle tier SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Sampling and
inspection requirements may be cut in half as per 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.8(f)(2)(v)
(C) and 403.12(e)(3).
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). The status of noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in Subparagraph (b)
(35), Parts (C), (D) or (H) shall also be SNC:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by
any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l);
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals
1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except
flow and pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit or narrative standard) that the control authority and/or
POTW determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or passthrough (including endangering the health of POTW personnel
or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in either the control authority’s or the POTW’s, if different from the
control authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(1)(vi)(B) and §
53.105(E) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedules, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and
compliance reports within 45 days from the due date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority and/or POTW determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of the local pretreatment program.
      SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or passthrough, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to, spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.015.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.051.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This chapter is gender neutral and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and vice-versa. Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or
discretionary. The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural
and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its
use.
   (C)   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings.
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
gpd    Gallons per day
G.S.   North Carolina General Statutes
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National pollution discharge elimination system
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TKN    Total Kjeldahl nitrogen
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or passthrough. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW
the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
         (c)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or passthrough;
         (d)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
         (e)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
         (f)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C),
or which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting
in interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
         (g)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems;
         (h)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Utilities Director in accordance with §
53.023;
         (i)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
         (j)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
         (k)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by
the treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
         (l)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the Utilities Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (m)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Utilities Director;
         (n)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 200 mg/l unless authorized by the Utilities
Director;
         (o)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
         (p)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Utilities Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
         (q)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other
chelating agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the
municipal wastewater system;
         (r)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste
according to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the Utilities Director;
         (s)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200;
         (t)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
         (u)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
         (v)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and
         (w)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by
this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could
be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
      (3)   When the Utilities Director determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts
which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or passthrough,
the Utilities Director shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution
on the POTW in accordance with §
53.105; and
         (b)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
53.050 and
53.051 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or passthrough.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
parts 405 through 471, and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Utilities Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Utilities
Director shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
   (E)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
Arsenic  0.003 mg/l
BOD      250 mg/l
Cadmium  0.003 mg/l
Chromium 0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
Copper   0.061 mg/l
Cyanide  0.015 mg/l
Lead     0.049 mg/l
Mercury  0.0003 mg/l
NH3      25 mg/l
Nickel   0.021 mg/l
Silver   0.005 mg/l
TSS      250 mg/l
Zinc     0.175 mg/l
 
   (B)   (1)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop
user-specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern.
      (2)   User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern
shall be included in wastewater permits.
      (3)   The Utilities Director may impose mass-based limits in addition to,
or in place of, concentration based limits.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.015, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.051 and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
53.015 within the time limitations as specified by the EPA, the state or the
Utilities Director, whichever is more stringent.
      (1)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review
and shall be approved by the Utilities Director before construction of the
facility.
      (2)   The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this
chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be approved by the Utilities Director prior
to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Utilities Director may require users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Utilities Director may require any persons discharging into the
POTW to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Utilities Director, they are necessary for the proper handling
of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except
that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Utilities
Director and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at his, her or their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The Utilities Director shall evaluate whether each significant
industrial user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent slug
discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
53.002. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an SIU.
The Utilities Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval and
implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively, the Utilities
Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge or
a slug load. Also see §§
53.069 and
53.070.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Utilities Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.070; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the Utilities Director, and at such times as are
established by the Utilities Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
53.015 through
53.023 or any other requirements established by the town.
      (2)   The Utilities Director may require septic tank waste haulers to
obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   (1)   The Utilities Director shall require haulers of industrial waste
to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The Utilities Director may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The Utilities Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Utilities Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Utilities Director. The Utilities Director may collect samples
of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards.
      (2)   The Utilities Director may require the industrial waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste.
      (2)   The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected
waste constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
FEES
§ 53.035 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the recovery of
costs from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the
implementation of the program established herein.
   (B)   The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in a schedule of
sewer use charges and fees by the Utilities Director and approved by the Town
Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from the
Utilities Director.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.036 USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users, including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Manager of the town shall review annually the sewage contributions
of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the
POTW and will make recommendations to the council or board serving the town for
adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.037 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater:
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town;
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town; or
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the Utilities Director or his or
her duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
WASTEWATER
§ 53.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the
Utilities Director, a user must submit information on the nature and
characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The Utilities
Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically
require users to update this information.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the Utilities Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the Utilities Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
for non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the Utilities Director a significant industrial user
determination. If the Utilities Director determines or suspects that the
proposed discharge fits the significant industrial user criteria, he or she
will require that a significant industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application.
      (1)   Users required to obtain a significant industrial user permit shall
complete and file with the town an application in the form prescribed by the
Utilities Director and accompanied by an application fee in the amount
prescribed in the schedule of charges and fees. Significant industrial users
shall apply for a significant industrial user permit within 90 days after
notification of the POTW Director’s determination in division (A) above. The
application shall include at a minimum the information required by 15A NCAC 02H
0.0916(C)(1). In support of the application, the user shall submit any other
information deemed necessary by the POTW Director to evaluate the permit
application. This may include reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(b) and §
53.065.
      (2)   Users required to obtain a significant industrial user permit shall
complete and file with the town an application in the form prescribed by the
Utilities Director and accompanied by an application fee in the amount
prescribed in the schedule of charges and fees. Significant industrial users
shall apply for a significant industrial user permit within 90 days after
notification of the POTW Director’s determination in division (A) above. The
application shall include at a minimum:
         (a)   Name of industrial user;
         (b)   Address of industrial user;
         (c)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) code(s) or expected
classification and industrial user category;
         (d)   Wastewater flow;
         (e)   Types and concentrations (or mass) of pollutants contained in
the discharge;
         (f)   Major products manufactured or services supplied;
         (g)   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities and
practices;
         (h)   Locations of discharge points;
         (i)   Raw materials used or stored at the site;
         (j)   Flow diagram or sewer map for the industrial user;
         (k)   Number of employees;
         (l)   Operation and production schedules; and
         (m)   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities
in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.1(g);
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality, as defined in §
53.002, and contain the following certification statement.
 
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
 
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The Utilities Director will
evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The Utilities Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the Utilities Director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (E)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above and the general permit conditions of the town
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      (1)   (a)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including, but not limited to, permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates and a comparison of total permitted flows
and loads with Division-approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division.
         (b)   The AT shall be updated as permits are issued or renewed and as
permits are modified where the permitted limits or other AT information is
revised.
      (2)   The basis or rationale for the pretreatment limitations, including
the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(2).
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The Utilities Director shall take final action on all applications
not later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The Utilities Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (I) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
53.105;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.105; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the Utilities
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to passthrough or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
timeframe prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B) above, the user
shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (I)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The Utilities Director shall have the authority to grant a permit
with such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the
purpose of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain,
but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load, as defined in §
53.002;
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads, as defined in §
53.002, if determined by the Utilities Director to be necessary for the user;
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load, as defined in §
53.002. Also see §§
53.069 and
53.070; and
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
53.077 and affording the Utilities Director, or his or her representatives,
access thereto;
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the
Utilities Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any
significant change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to
introduction in the system;
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
Utilities Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment
process used by the permittee;
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Utilities Director
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (J)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (K)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   (L)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.065 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the Utilities Director a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of their discharge, new sources and sources that become
categorical users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical
standard shall submit to the Utilities Director a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below.
      (2)   A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to
use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
53.074; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.075 and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative, as defined in §
53.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.066.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051(C).
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.066 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.065(B)(7).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Utilities Director no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the Utilities Director.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.067 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Utilities
Director a report containing the information described in §
53.065(B)(4) through (B)(6). For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user’s actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051(C).
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the Utilities Director but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§
53.074 and
53.075. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
53.051(C).
   (B)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the Utilities Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§
53.074 and
53.075, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.069 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the Utilities Director of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. The
permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the
control authority and/or municipality. See §
53.070(D) for other reporting requirements.
   (A)   The Utilities Director may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.051.
   (B)   The Utilities Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (C)   For the purpose of this requirement, SIGNIFICANT CHANGES include, but
are not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 25% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants; increases or decreases to
production; increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants; discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or
municipality; new or changed product lines; new or changed manufacturing
processes and/or chemicals; or new or changed customers.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.070 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge or a slug load, as defined in §
53.002, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   (1)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the Utilities Director, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences.
      (2)   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge or
a slug load, as defined in §
53.002.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.071 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   (A)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
provide appropriate reports to the Utilities Director as the Utilities Director
may require.
   (B)   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial users
under §
53.002 shall provide appropriate reports to the Utilities Director as the
Utilities Director may require. At a minimum, this shall include the annual
certification of continuing to meet the non-significant categorical industrial
user criteria as required under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q).
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.072 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the Utilities Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Utilities Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the Utilities Director, the user
is not required to resample:
      (1)   If the Utilities Director monitors at the user’s facility at least
once a month; or
      (2)   If the Utilities Director samples between the user’s initial
sampling and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the Utilities Director has performed the sampling and analysis in
lieu of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a
violation, the Utilities Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the
results of the repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violations, unless one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The Utilities Director monitors at the user’s facility at least
once a month;
      (2)   The Utilities Director samples the user between their initial
sampling and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The Utilities Director requires the user to perform sampling and
submit the results to the Utilities Director within the 30-day deadline of the
POTW becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.073 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the Utilities Director.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and the type
of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste stream discharge during the calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (2)   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until receiving
written approval from the town. Any notification under this division (A) need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
53.069. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
53.065,
53.067 and
53.068.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specific in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Utilities Director,
the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.074 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater
analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
or unless otherwise performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA
or town.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA and town.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.075 GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds and any other pollutants as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs
necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge. See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90-day
compliance reports. Additionally, the Utilities Director may allow collection
of multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to
analysis as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum of
hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the Utilities Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative, and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.076 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.077 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
   (B)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Utilities Director.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.078 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The Utilities Director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic
reports for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall
comply with 40 C.F.R. part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under §§
53.105 through
53.107 and
53.999.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.079 SPECIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR IUS IN SATELLITE POTWS.
   In the case of an industrial user located in a satellite POTW organization’s
jurisdiction, all information required to be reported to the industrial user’s
pretreatment program control authority by this section shall also be reported
to the POTW treatment plant organization.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 53.090 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate, at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The town, approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into his or her
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
town, approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for
the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the
town’s, approval authority’s or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.092 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the town, approval authority or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the town, approval
authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court having
jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.093 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data provided by an industrial user to the Utilities
Director, pursuant to this chapter identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge, shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information which may be so submitted by an industrial user to the Utilities
Director in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the
public unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically
identifies the information as confidential upon submission and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Utilities Director that the disclosure
of such information or a particular part thereof to the general public would
divulge methods or processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the Utilities Director
that is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made
available upon written request to the Division of Water Quality or any state
agency for uses related to the pretreatment program, the national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, collection system permit,
stormwater permit and/or non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the Division or other state agency
under division (B) above shall be subject to the processes set forth in G.S. §
143-215.3C.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.105 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the Utilities Director finds that
any industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater
permit or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any
other pretreatment requirement, the Utilities Director may serve upon such a
person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days
from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Utilities Director is hereby empowered to enter
into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
discharger to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by
the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an
administrative order issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The Utilities Director may order any industrial user who causes or
is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is
in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the Utilities
Director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The Utilities Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.051(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the Utilities Director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or
orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the Utilities
Director may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct
those persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Utilities Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the Utilities Director shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The
Utilities Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge.
The industrial user shall submit a detailed written statement describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence to the Utilities Director prior to the date of the above-described
hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
      (1)   The Utilities Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this chapter or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under this section why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.106 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter, are
available to the Utilities Director who may use any single one or combination
against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not
limited to, the following.
   (A)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the applicable judicial
district may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B. (Note: Under state law, it is a
crime to negligently violate any term, condition or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit,
issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury (G.S. §
143-215.6B(h)) and to falsify information required under G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the Utilities Director,
through the Town Attorney, may petition the superior court of justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed, and service will only
recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated
ability to comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Utilities Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject
to the provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.107 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Utilities
Director may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the Utilities
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the Utilities Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.108 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the Utilities Director shall publish in a newspaper of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the
jurisdiction(s) served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were
found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable
noncompliance, in 15A NCAC 2H.0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.109 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   (A)   An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he or she deems unacceptable, or a permittee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
53.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
53.105, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a written
request for review by the county superior court within 30 days after receipt of
notice by registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not
thereafter, along with a copy to the town.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial
review, the Board serving the town shall transmit to the reviewing court the
original or a certified copy of the official record of their decision.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
§ 53.110 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (B) below, are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Utilities Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five days):
               1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
               2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and
times or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected
to continue; and
               3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
53.015(B) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that
its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause passthrough or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the passthrough or
interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The Utilities Director may waive the written report
on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
               1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
               2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as
the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
               3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)
(2) above.
         (b)   The Utilities Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Utilities Director determines that it
will meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(3)(a) above.
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day per
violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the Utilities Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
53.051(H).
(Ord. 2011-12.04, passed 11-7-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   GOLF CARS AND SLOW MOVING VEHICLES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic regulations
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Authority of police in special cases
   
70.05   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.06   Application to pushcarts, bicycles or animals
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
70.21   No-turn signs; turning markers
   
70.22   No-parking zones; safety zone markers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Streets, traffic and parking; municipal authority, see G.S. §§ 160A-296
through 160A-309
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, words shall be defined as set forth in the
state’s motor vehicle regulations, G.S. §§ 20-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It shall be an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, any state,
county or municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 APPLICATION TO PUSHCARTS, BICYCLES OR ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to
the provisions of this title, except those provisions which by their very
nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic regulations of this municipality, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 NO-TURN SIGNS; TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that
no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any such sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning at the place, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of such indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 NO-PARKING ZONES; SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is provided, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and
shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Speed limit
   
71.02   One-way streets
Passengers
   
71.15   Boarding or alighting from public conveyances or other vehicles
   
71.16   Unlawful riding
   
71.17   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
71.18   Persons riding must stay inside
   
71.19   Not more than three persons permitted in front seat
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   A vehicle may be operated on any street of the municipality at a rate of
speed not exceeding 35 mph, unless otherwise clearly marked and designated;
however, at no time shall the speed be greater than is reasonable and prudent
under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and portions of those streets designated by the
municipality, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction are erected and maintained at every intersection
where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
PASSENGERS
§ 71.15 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM PUBLIC CONVEYANCES OR OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle or any portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 71.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 PERSONS RIDING MUST STAY INSIDE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
such signals as are by law required. No person shall hang on to any vehicle
whatsoever or in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 71.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.19 NOT MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons (including driver) to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Parking within lines
   
72.02   Unlawful parking
   
72.03   Parking to advertise prohibited
§ 72.01 PARKING WITHIN LINES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars, cars shall be parked between those lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purposes of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or
other vehicles; and
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet from any flashing signal, stop sign or traffic-
control signal located on or at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
the points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless
the traffic authority indicates length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail at a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or
ambulance station when such driveway entrance is within 75 feet of the
facility;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (15)   On a median, unless the vehicle is disabled, or at the direction
of a police officer, and then only temporarily for a period not to exceed 24
hours;
      (16)   Within the town’s right-of-way for a continuous period of 24
hours;
      (17)   In violation of G.S. § 20-37.6 or otherwise in a space designated
with a sign for persons with disabilities, unless the vehicle displays the
distinguishing license plates or placard specified in G.S. § 20-37.6; and
      (18)   In violation of G.S. § 20-37.6 or otherwise in such a location as
to obstruct a curb ramp or curb cut for persons with disabilities.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to emergency and
public service vehicles whose operators are performing services for which they
are responsible. Nor do these prohibitions apply to vehicles belonging to
persons, firms or corporations under contract with the municipality to perform
a public service. These exceptions, however, shall apply only when an emergency
situation requires that such vehicles park in the prohibited areas.
   (D)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any such
prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING TO ADVERTISE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Skateboards, Roller Skates and the Like
   
73.01   General regulations
Golf Carts and Slow-Moving Vehicles
   
73.15   Town policy statement
   
73.16   Defense release, indemnity and hold harmless agreement
   
73.17   Rules and regulations
 
   
73.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Owner registration
   
Appendix B:   Defense release, indemnity and hold harmless agreement
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE
§ 73.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall ride or use any roller skates, coaster, toy vehicle,
skateboard or any similar device upon the public streets or sidewalks, from the
intersection of Main Street and Railroad Street on the southeast and running
along Main Street to the intersection of Main Street and Eagle Drive on the
northwest, as well as any public streets which intersect this portion of Main
Street in any direction to the full length of the intersecting streets that is
within the town limits.
   (B)   No person shall ride or drive a bicycle upon the sidewalks of the
streets described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. passed 12-6-2004) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES
§ 73.15 TOWN POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter allows for the operation of golf carts and slow-moving
vehicles on designated public streets, roads, pathways and highways within the
town’s jurisdiction. For the purpose of this subchapter, GOLF CARTS and SLOW-
MOVING VEHICLES are defined as motorized pleasure vehicles that do not exceed
28 mph on a straight and level surface. This subchapter does not pertain to the
operation of lawn mowers, tractors, four-wheelers, ATVs or any other
conveyance, other than those described herein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, John Deere “Gators,” Husqvarna
“HUVs” and any other manufacturers equivalent shall be considered as slow-
moving vehicles. This subchapter has been adopted in the interest of public
safety.
   (C)   Golf carts, hereinafter referred to as “cart(s),” and slow-moving
vehicles, hereinafter referred to as “SMV(s),” are not generally designed to be
operated and used on public streets, roads, paths or highways. The town, by
adopting this subchapter, is in no way endorsing, nor is it advocating, the use
of carts or SMVs on the public streets, road, paths or highways within its
jurisdiction.
   (D)   By adopting this subchapter, the town is merely regulating the
operation of those vehicles by addressing public safety issues and concerns and
all operators and passengers of carts and SMVs, which operate within the town’s
jurisdiction, do so at their own risk and peril.
   (E)   This subchapter does not imply that operation of these vehicles on the
streets, roads, paths and highways is safe or advisable, even if done so in
compliance with this subchapter. All operators of the vehicles, and their
passengers, must be observant of, and attentive to, the safety of themselves,
motorists, pedestrians, bicyclists and the personal and real property of
others.
   (F)   The town has no liability, under any theory of liability, for
permitting the operation of carts and SMVs on streets, roads, paths or highways
under its jurisdiction as allowed by state statutes and special legislation
granted by the state legislature but governed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) (Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 73.16 DEFENSE RELEASE, INDEMNITY AND HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT.
   As provided in §
73.15, any person or persons operating or riding carts or SMVs on the
designated streets, roads, paths or highways under the jurisdiction of the
town, does so at his or her own risk and peril, and must operate the vehicles
with due regard for the safety and convenience of other motor vehicles,
bicyclists and pedestrians. The golf cart or slow-moving vehicle owner and
registrant must sign a release from liability for the town which is as follows:
the undersigned owner and registrant hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and
hold the town, its officers, agents, servants, employees, assistants, legal
representatives and their heirs, executives, executors, administrators and
assigns, completely harmless from and against any and all liabilities, losses,
suits, claims, judgments, fines or demands arising by reason of injury or death
of any person or damage to any property, including all reasonable costs of
investigation and defense thereof, including, but not limited to, attorneys’
fees, court costs and expert fees, of any nature whatsoever arising out of an
incident to the acts or omissions of the owner and registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors, subleases, licensees, invitees
or any third persons in the use of the owner’s and registrant’s golf cart or
slow-moving vehicle, regardless of where the injury, death or damage may occur.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) (Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 73.17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Golf carts and slow-moving vehicles may only be operated on streets, roads,
paths and highways within the town in accordance with the following rules and
regulations.
   (A)   Before carts or SMVs can be operated on the designated streets, roads,
pathways or highways within the jurisdiction of the town, the owners thereof
must purchase and maintain liability insurance in at least the minimum amount
required by the state for a licensed motor vehicle which policy insures against
personal injury and property damage of any nature, relative to the operation of
the vehicles. Proof of insurance must be provided to the Town Police Department
at the time of application for a permit to operate the vehicles and must be
carried by the operators at all times that the vehicles are in operation.
   (B)   Any person who operates a cart or SMV in the town takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with the operation of the vehicle.
Any person who rides or sits as a passenger on a cart or SMV in the town takes
full responsibility for all liability associated with the “riding on” or the
“sitting on” of the vehicle.
   (C)   Any person that operates a cart or SMV on the designated streets,
roads, pathways or highways within the town’s jurisdiction shall be at least 16
years of age and hold a valid driver’s license issued by a state within these
United States, and the operator shall have this driver’s license on his or her
person at all times while operating the vehicle.
   (D)   Carts or SMVs may only be operated during daylight hours, between
sunrise and sunset, unless the vehicle is equipped with commercially
manufactured headlights, brake lights and turn signals that have been approved
by the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Carts or SMVs may not be operated during inclement weather, when
visibility is reduced or impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or
at any time when there is insufficient light clearly to see a person or a
vehicle on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (F)   Carts and SMVs must be equipped with a rear vision mirror capable of
providing the operator with a 200-foot clear rear sight picture, and shall also
be equipped (on the rear of the vehicle) with a slow-moving vehicle placard
that meets ASAE S276.4 standards, and shall be equipped with sufficient brakes,
reliable steering and safe tires.
   (G)   Carts and SMVs may only be operated on State Highways 205, 138, 742
and Saint Martin Road when necessary to access a town street, road or pathway,
or a business or residential access point that is not readily accessible from a
town back-street, back-road or pathway. Any continuous travel on these highways
is hereby prohibited and shall be subject to civil penalty or fine. The only
exceptions to this rule are for July 4 of each year and “cruise-in” days. At
such times, the Chief of Police shall designate those roads or streets which
may be used on those occasions and the duration of their use.
   (H)   Any person who operates a cart or SMV within the town’s jurisdiction
must adhere to all state traffic laws, and all laws governing the use of, or
the possession of, alcoholic beverages and controlled substances.
   (I)   Cart and SMV operators must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and
overtaking vehicles at all times.
   (J)   All passengers, including children, must be properly seated while the
cart or SMV is in motion and shall not be transported in a negligent manner.
   (K)   The maximum occupancy of any cart or SMV shall not exceed the
manufacturer’s design or recommended seating capacity.
   (L)   Carts or SMVs shall not be allowed to operate on any town sidewalks,
unless otherwise designated by the Chief of Police.
   (M)   Carts or SMVs shall not be allowed to park in designated handicapped
parking spaces unless the operator or one of the passengers of the vehicle has
a valid handicapped placard or sticker.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) (Ord. passed 11-3-2008) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
73.01 shall result in a civil penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any section or part of §§
73.15 through
73.17, or fails to comply with any section or part of §§
73.15 through
73.17, shall be held responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay
a penalty in the amount of $50 pursuant to G.S. § 14-4(b).
      (2)   The Town Police Department’s interpretation of the above sections
of this chapter, its rules and regulations is final.
(Prior Code, § 74.99)
(Ord. passed 12-6-2004; Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
APPENDIX A: OWNER REGISTRATION
 
                                                                     My
Commission Expires:                          
Notary Public
   TOWN OF OAKBORO
   GOLF CART/SLOW MOVING VEHICLE OWNER REGISTRATION
   (Please Print or Type in Black Ink only)
Golf cart owner’s name(s):
                                                                                                         
Owner’s Physical Address:
                                                                                                        
City/Town:                                      State:                       
Zip:                 
Owner’s Mailing Address:
                                                                                                         
City/Town:                                      State:                       
Zip:                 
Owner’s Telephone No. Daytime: (       )                     Night time:
(        )                              
Owner’s Driver License Number:                       State:
                                 
Make of golf cart (Mfg):
                                                                                                            
Color of golf cart:                                   Model (Year):
                                                              
Serial Number of golf cart:
                                                                
Liability Insurance Provider:
                                                              
Insurance Policy Number:
                                                                  
   I have received, read and understand the “Golf Cart & Slow Moving Vehicle
Ordinance.” I have paid the registration fee for the above Cart/SMV and agree
to additional assessments as may be required in support of this ordinance.
   I acknowledge that I will assume all liability, and am fully responsible for
the operation of the above Cart/SMV on the streets, roads, pathways and
highways in the Town of Oakboro. I also acknowledge that the Town of Oakboro,
in providing this privilege, is in no way endorsing the operation of this Cart/
SMV on the streets, roads, pathways or highways and does not and will not
assume any liability in the operation of the Cart/SMV.
   I agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Town of Oakboro for any and all
liability arising from the use of this golf Cart/SMV. I also understand that
the Oakboro Police Department’s interpretation of all the rules and regulations
are final. I will ensure that the assigned proof of compliance will remain
attached to the driver’s side of the Cart/SMV at all times.
   I furthermore ensure that I will obey all the rules and regulations set
forth by the Town of Oakboro and the State of North Carolina concerning the
operation of a Cart or SMV within the town limits.
                                                                                                                
Owner’s Signature Date                      Date
                                                                                                                                                
For Town’s Use Only
Approved by:                   Chief of Police Joseph E. Lowder
                                                                                                    
Signature                            Date
APPENDIX B: DEFENSE RELEASE, INDEMNITY AND HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT
 
   Defense Release, Indemnity and Hold Harmless Agreement
   As provided in §§
73.16 and
73.17 of this chapter, any person operating a golf cart or slow moving vehicle
on designated streets, roads, pathways or highways within the town’s
jurisdiction, does so at their own risk and peril, and must operate said
vehicles with due caution and circumspection and with regard for the safety and
convenience of other motor vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians.
   The undersigned owner and registrant hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and
hold the Town of Oakboro, its officers, agents, servants, employees,
assistants, legal representatives and their heirs, executives, executors,
administrators and assigns, completely harmless from and against any and all
liabilities, losses, suits, claims, judgments, fines or demands arising by
reason of injury or death of any person or damage to any property, including
all reasonable costs of investigation and defense thereof, including, but not
limited to, attorneys’ fees, court costs and expert fees, of any nature
whatsoever arising out of an incident to the acts or omissions of the owner and
registrant, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors,
subleases, licensees, invitees or any third persons in the use of the Owner’s
and Registrant’s Golf Cart or Slow Moving Vehicle, regardless of where the
injury, death or damage may occur. I furthermore attest that I received, read
and understand the Town of Oakboro’s Golf Cart and Slow Moving Vehicle
Ordinance.
OWNER                              WITNESS
Signature
                                                                 Signature
                                               
Print Name                                                             Print
Name                                               
Permit Decal #                                       
State of North Carolina
County of Stanly
Town of Oakboro
Sworn and subscribed before me this
                                               day of
                                 , 20            .
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARS AND SLOW MOVING VEHICLES
Section
Golf Cars and Other Electrically Powered or Low-speed Vehicles
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Scooters and mopeds excluded
   
74.03   Speed limit
   
74.04   Permit required; application; fee
   
74.05   Registration of vehicle; information required for issuance of stickers;
display of stickers required
   
74.06   Insurance required
   
74.07   Rules of the road
   
74.08   Age limit
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   Where the provisions of this chapter conflict or contradict the provisions
of
Chapter 73, the more recent provisions, being ths chapter, shall prevail.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A.300
GOLF CARS AND OTHER ELECTRICALLY POWERED OR LOW-SPEED VEHICLES
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICALLY POWERED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used in the transportation
of persons or property on the streets of the town, the propulsion of which is
derived primarily from the use of electricity. Electric golf cars fall within
this definition.
   LOW-SPEED VEHICLES. Any vehicle that due to mechanical design or mechanical
governing by implement or device installed thereon which prevents the speed of
such vehicle from exceeding 25 mph. Combustion engine golf cars fall within
this definition.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -)
§ 74.02 SCOOTERS AND MOPEDS EXCLUDED.
   Scooters and mopeds are currently regulated on all roads and highways by
state law; they will not be expressly addressed within this chapter.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -)
§ 74.03 SPEED LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any electrical or low-speed vehicle upon the
streets of the town in excess of 18 mph.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Filing of application. The owner of any electrically powered or low-
speed vehicle may apply for a permit to operate same on specified streets of
the town. Application should be made to the town on the forms provided by the
town.
   (B)   Fee for issuance of permits. The fee for the issuance of permits for
use of electrically powered or low-speed vehicles on the streets of the town
shall be established by the Board of Commissioners and may be revised from time
to time by the Board of Commissioners. All registrations shall be kept in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLE; INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR ISSUANCE OF STICKERS;
DISPLAY OF STICKERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registration. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or for
any person who owns or has control of any electrically powered or low-speed
vehicle to allow the vehicle to be operated on the streets of the town without
the vehicle having been registered with the town, and without displaying
thereon two current registration stickers affixed to a conspicuous area on the
vehicle as determined by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Information required for issuance of stickers. Persons registering
electrically powered or low-speed vehicles shall provide the following
information to the town:
      (1)   Owner’s name;
      (2)   Owner’s address and phone number(s);
      (3)   Cart identification, to include make, model, serial number, color
and manufacture date;
      (4)   Written proof of insurance; and
      (5)   Other information deemed necessary by the town.
   (C)   Display of stickers required. Upon registration, the owner shall
receive two stickers to be affixed to a conspicuous place on the front and rear
of the vehicle as designated by the Chief of Police. The stickers shall be
valid for the current year (January 1 through December 31).
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No electrically powered vehicle or any vehicle will be permitted by
the town to operate on the streets of the town without having in full force and
effect, liability insurance coverage with limits no less than those required
for motor vehicles allowed to use public streets of the town and the state.
   (B)   Any permit of operation may be revoked by the Chief of Police if there
is any evidence of misrepresentation made in the permit application, if
liability insurance has been revoked, suspended, expired or is no longer in
effect, or if there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the
vehicle.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 RULES OF THE ROAD.
   (A)   All electrically powered or low-speed vehicles shall follow all the
same rules of the road as any motor vehicle, except those which are
specifically set by this chapter. All electrically powered or low-speed
vehicles shall have brake lights, turn signals and headlights in working order
when operated on the streets of the town after sunset.
   (B)   Electrically powered and/or low-speed vehicles will be exempt from the
inspection requirement as set by the State Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the operation of golf cars which are
electrically powered and low-speed vehicles on the designated streets of the
town and does not allow for operation of such vehicle on the highways or roads
belonging to the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 AGE LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an electrically powered
or low-speed vehicle on the streets of the town unless they are at least 16
years of age. Some form of approved identification shall be carried by any
person operating such vehicle and provided for inspection upon the request of a
law enforcement officer.
   (B)   It shall not be required to be licensed as a driver by the State
Division of Motor Vehicles to operate an electrically powered or low-speed
vehicle on the streets of the town.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
74.03 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50 for a first offense.
A civil citation shall be issued by an authorized officer of the town. The
citations shall state that if the penalty is not paid within 48 hours from the
time of issuance, it may be recovered in a civil action in the nature of the
debt.
      (2)   A second violation of §
74.03 within a 12-month period by any person shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $75. A third and any subsequent violation of §
74.03 within 12 months shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
violation.
      (3)   In addition to any civil sanctions imposed in this section, the
offender who violates §
74.03 shall be subject to criminal charges for the infraction, punishable by
imprisonment and/or a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
74.04 through
74.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $50,
pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   In addition to any criminal sanctions imposed by this section, the
offender who violates §§
74.04 through
74.06 shall also be subject to a civil penalty of $50.
(Ord. 3-25, passed - -)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time on the east side of North Main Street in front of the
United States Post Office in the area between the northwest corner of the
intersection of Third Street and North Main Street and a point 44 feet west of
the aforesaid intersection.
   (B)   If any vehicle shall be found parked in violation of this schedule, it
shall be the duty a police officer of the town to attach to the vehicle a
notice to the owner or operator thereof, if the owner is absent, or deliver to
the owner or operator, if he or she is present, a notice to the effect that the
vehicle has been parked in violation of this schedule and directing the owner
or operator to report to the town office in regard to the violation.
   (C)   An owner or operator of the vehicle may, within 48 hours from the time
of the notice referred to in division (B) above was attached to the vehicle or
delivered to the owner/operator, pay to the town as a civil penalty for the
offence indicated in the notice, the amount set in the adopted Fee Schedule.
(Prior Code, Chapter 76, Sched. I) (Ord. passed 3-1-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARADES AND THE LIKE
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   NOISE AND SOUND LEVELS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Authority, purpose and objective
   
90.002   General regulations
   
90.004   Interference
   
90.005   Service and return of service
   
90.006   Appeals and requests for review of civil citations
   
90.007   Enforcement
Rabies Control and Vaccination
   
90.020   Definitions
   
90.021   Vaccination for rabies
   
90.022   Bites and confinement
   
90.023   Sanctions and remedies
Animal Cruelty
   
90.035   Definitions
   
90.036   Exemption
   
90.037   General care and prohibited acts
   
90.038   Failure to report animal cruelty
   
90.039   Sanctions and remedies
Dogs; Nuisance Behavior and Confinement
   
90.050   Definitions
   
90.051   Dogs at large
   
90.052   Female dogs in estrus
   
90.053   Dog creating a nuisance
   
90.054   Restraint and housing; public ways
   
90.055   Intentional violation
   
90.056   Sanctions and remedies
Cats; Nuisance Behavior and Confinement
   
90.070   Definitions
   
90.071   Cats creating a nuisance
   
90.072   Female cats in estrus
   
90.073   Sanctions and remedies
Stray, Dangerous or Wild Animals
   
90.085   Definitions
   
90.086   Keeping stray animals
   
90.087   Dangerous animals or potentially dangerous animals; exemptions
   
90.088   Determination of dangerousness
   
90.089   Confinement and restraint of a dangerous animal or potentially
dangerous animal
   
90.090   Transfer of ownership of a dangerous animal
   
90.091   Inherently dangerous exotic animals; exemptions, impoundment
   
90.092   Sanctions and remedies
Trapping and Impoundment
   
90.105   Trapping; county APS property
   
90.106   Impoundment
   
90.107   Redemption of animals
   
90.108   Disposition and adoption of impounded animals
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is established pursuant to the following
grants of statutory authority:
      (1)   G.S. § l60A-174, which delegates to municipalities and G.S. § 153A-
121, which delegates to counties the power to regulate by ordinance, acts,
omissions or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of their
citizens and the peace and dignity of the county;
      (2)   G.S. § 160A-175, which authorizes municipalities and G.S. § 153A-
123, which authorizes counties to levy fines and penalties for violation of
their ordinances and allows counties to secure injunction and abatement orders
to further insure compliance with their ordinances;
      (3)   G.S. § 153A-127, which authorizes counties and G.S. § 160A-182
which authorizes municipalities to define and prohibit the abuse of animals;
      (4)   G.S. § 153A-131, which authorizes counties and G.S. § 160A-187,
which authorizes municipalities to regulate, restrict or prohibit the
possession or harboring of animals which are dangerous to persons or property;
      (5)   G.S. § 153A-442, which authorizes counties to establish, equip,
operate and maintain animal shelters;
      (6)   G.S. § 153A-153, which authorizes counties to levy an annual
license tax on the privilege of keeping dogs and other pets within the county;
      (7)   G.S. § 130A-192, which authorizes animal control officers to
determine if there are any dogs, cats, and ferrets not wearing valid rabies
vaccination tags and to take appropriate action regarding said dogs, cats and
ferrets;
      (8)   G.S. Chapter 67, Article 1A, which authorizes the county to
designate a person to be responsible for determining when a dog is dangerous or
potentially dangerous;
      (9)   G.S. § 130A-186, which authorizes the local health director to
appoint one or more certified rabies vaccinators;
      (10)   G.S. § 14-4, which makes it a misdemeanor, unless otherwise
specified, if any person shall be found guilty of violating an ordinance of the
county or town; and
      (11)   G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 20, Part 1 authorized the county and
town to enter into agreements for the purposes of licensing and regulating
animals.
   (B)   Purpose and objective. This chapter is established for the following
purposes and objectives:
      (1)   Animal cruelty. To define and prohibit the abuse of animals;
      (2)   Rabies. To protect citizens and animals of the county from rabies
transmitted by unconfined, uncontrolled or unimmunized dogs, cats or ferrets;
      (3)   Animals at large. To regulate, restrict or prohibit the running at
large of any domestic animals;
      (4)   Stray animals. To regulate, restrict or prohibit the keeping of
stray domestic animals;
      (5)   Animal nuisance. To regulate animals that may be a nuisance;
      (6)   Inherently dangerous exotic animals. To regulate, restrict or
prohibit the harboring or keeping or ownership of wild or exotic animals,
poisonous reptiles and dangerous animals;
      (7)   Animal bites. To establish rules and procedures for dealing with
animal bites;
      (8)   Impoundment of animals. To regulate the impoundment and confinement
of animals;
      (9)   Redemption of impounded animals. To regulate and establish
procedures and fees for redeeming impounded animals in the County Animal
Shelter (hereinafter “Animal Shelter”); and
      (10)   Destruction of animals. To regulate and establish procedures for
destroying diseased, stray, unwanted or unclaimed animals.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.002 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following general provisions shall apply to this chapter.
   (A)   Animal protective services. The authority for animal control set forth
in this chapter is conferred upon the County Sheriff, unless otherwise provided
by this chapter or applicable state law. Authority is hereby granted to the
County Animal Protective Services Department (APS), a division of the County
Sheriff’s Office, to enforce this chapter. This chapter shall be enforced by
all APS officers (as defined in division (C) below, having all rights, powers
and immunities granted in this division. APS officers are hereby granted the
following rights, powers and immunities and said APS officers, through APS
shall:
      (1)   Have the responsibility, along with other law enforcement agencies,
to enforce all laws of the state and all ordinances of the county and the town
pertaining to animals and to cooperate with all law enforcement officers within
county in fulfilling this duty except within townships and municipalities that
have adopted their own animal-related ordinances that conflict with this
chapter;
      (2)   Enforce and carry out all laws of the state and all ordinances of
the county pertaining to rabies control;
      (3)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites,
for the quarantine of any dog, cat or ferret suspected of having rabies for a
period of not less than ten days, and for reporting to the local health
director as soon as practical the occurrence of any such animal bite and the
condition of any quarantined animal;
      (4)   Be responsible for the operation of the Animal Shelter;
      (5)   Be responsible for the seizure and impoundment, when necessary, of
any animal in the county involved in a violation of this or any other ordinance
or state law;
      (6)   Investigate cruelty or abuse of animals and protect animals from
cruelty or abuse;
      (7)   Be empowered to seize animals with the consent of an owner or
occupant of the property, or as evidence if the animals are in “plain view,” or
by criminal or administrative search warrant if the animals are being cruelly
treated or abused;
      (8)   Patrol homes and businesses in the county as necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with this chapter or state statute;
      (9)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of
seizures, impoundments and disposition of animals coming into the custody of
APS, bite cases, violations, complaints, investigations and monies collected;
      (10)   Be empowered to issue notices of violation and assess civil
penalties for violations of this chapter;
      (11)   Be empowered to go in the yard of animal owners to inspect the
condition of animals;
      (12)   Be empowered to make inspections of buildings or dwellings with
the consent of the owner or occupant, or by administrative search warrant, or
criminal search warrant when there is probable cause to believe that this
chapter or state law is being violated;
      (13)   Be empowered to go upon private property to seize animals pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter or court order; and
      (14)   Provide notification to the public regarding adoptable and stray
animals housed at the Animal Shelter to promote adoptions and to aid in
reuniting lost animals with their owners.
   (B)   Animal Protective Services Sergeant. The APS Sergeant, as designated
by the County Sheriff, shall be the chief APS officer and shall be in charge of
and supervise APS field operations. The APS Sergeant shall have the authority
to delegate to his or her APS officers any of the powers granted him or her by
this chapter. Any act done by an APS officer that is in compliance with or
within the scope of this chapter shall be considered the official act of the
APS Sergeant.
   (C)   Animal Protective Services officer. APS officers, as designated by the
County Sheriff, shall have all rights, powers and immunities granted under this
chapter to APS officers and all rights, powers and immunities granted by the
general laws of this state to animal control officers to enforce the provisions
of this chapter and the General Statutes of North Carolina as they relate to
animal control and animal welfare.
   (D)   Animal Protective Services Coordinator. The APS Coordinator, as
designated by the County Sheriff, shall be in charge of and supervise the
operation of the Animal Shelter and the adoption of animals.
   (E)   Animal Protective Services Committee. Review of contested decisions
concerning the enforcement of this chapter by APS shall be made by either the
Sheriff or his or her designee or the County Animal Protective Services
Committee (hereinafter “APS Committee”) as specified in each subchapter herein.
The APS Committee shall be comprised of the County Manager or his or her
designee, the County Health Director (hereinafter “Health Director”) or his or
her designee and the County Emergency Management Director or his or her
designee.
   (F)   Licensure of dogs.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog four months of
age or older within the county limits unless it has been licensed as herein
provided. Dogs shall be listed with the County Tax Assessor and the name and
address of the owner provided. The fee for each tag shall be included on the
annual tax bill. A numbered metallic tag shall be issued to the taxpayer.
         (b)   A fee will be paid at the rate set by the County Board of
Commissioners, and tags must be purchased at the rate of one tag for each dog
owned. If the county tag is lost, a duplicate may be obtained from the County
Tax Assessor at a fee as provided by the County Board of Commissioners. It
shall be unlawful for any person to use an issued tag for a dog other than the
dog for which the tag was originally issued.
      (2)   Every owner is required to assure that the county tag is securely
fastened to his dog’s chain, collar or harness, which the dog must wear at all
times unless it is accompanied by its owner or is engaged in hunting or other
sport in which the tag might endanger its safety.
      (3)   The following classifications of owners shall be exempt from this
dog licensure requirement:
         (a)   An approved rescue, foster or humane organization in accordance
with the policies of the APS, as long as the organization is the temporary
custodian of the dog and seeking placement of the dog with a future owner; and
         (b)   A governmental owner of a dog that is used in an official
capacity.
   (G)   Unseizable animals. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter to the contrary, an animal may be humanely destroyed by gunshot upon
order of the County Sheriff or his or her designee. The County Sheriff or his
or her designee may take such action if reasonably satisfied that:
      (1) The animal cannot be seized by reasonable means;
      (2) The owner of the animal cannot be identified within a reasonable
amount of time given the circumstances of a particular situation; and
      (3) The animal is injured or diseased, or the animal is a threat to the
public health, or the animal is a chronic nuisance.
   (H)   Conflict. Insofar as the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent
with the provisions of any other law, except for provisions of state or federal
law that are more strict than the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of
this chapter shall control, to the extent permitted by applicable law. Whenever
any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of the North
Carolina General Statutes and that section is later amended or superseded, this
chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section
that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.004 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest an
employee of APS or any other person duly authorized by this chapter while in
the performance of duty. It shall also be unlawful for any person to seek
release, attempt to release or to release any animal in the custody of APS,
except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. The APS officer may
initiate the issuance of a criminal warrant for any person violating this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 SERVICE AND RETURN OF SERVICE.
   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, all notices or citations
required to be sent or delivered pursuant to this chapter shall be served and
return of service made as follows:.
   (A)   Personal service. APS or APS officer may personally deliver notices or
citations to all persons due a notice or citation pursuant to this chapter. If
he or she does so, he or she must get the person to sign a certificate
verifying that the notice or citation was in fact received, and the APS
Sergeant or APS officer shall sign a return of service certificate verifying
that he or she in fact served the notice or citation. If the person being
served refuses to sign the notice or citation verifying receipt of the same,
the person making service shall write in the appropriate space “refused to
sign.” The person’s refusal shall not invalidate the service. The APS Sergeant
or APS officer may leave the notice or citation with anyone of suitable age and
discretion at the residence or place of business of the person being served.
The person serving said notice or citation shall have the recipient sign the
service certificate.
   (B)   Registered or certified mail. The APS officer may serve notices or
citations by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.006 APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR REVIEW OF CIVIL CITATIONS.
   (A)   Appeal procedure. All civil citations may be appealed in writing. The
notice of appeal must be addressed to Stanly County Sheriff’s Office,
Attention: Sheriff, 223 South 2nd Street, Albemarle, NC 28001 and postmarked or
personally delivered within five days of receipt of the citation.
   (B)   Appeal hearing.
      (1)   Appeals of APS civil citations shall be heard within ten days of
the notice of appeal, unless a continuance is mutually agreed upon. The appeal
hearing shall be held by the County Sheriff or his or her designee. All
testimony offered in a hearing held pursuant to this section shall be given
under oath and recorded by tape recording or any other reasonable manner. The
hearing shall be open to the public. The person requesting the hearing may be
represented by an attorney. The APS officer shall have the burden of proving
that this chapter has been violated and that the proposed sanction is in
accordance with the chapter. The person requesting the hearing will then be
given the opportunity to prove that this chapter has not been violated and/or
that the sanction is not in compliance with the chapter. The person requesting
the hearing may admit the violation and confine his proof to showing that the
sanction is not in accordance with the chapter. The APS officer will then be
given the opportunity to address any conflicts or inconsistencies created by
the evidence or statements.
      (2)   The County Sheriff or his or her designee will render a decision
and a notice of decision will be furnished to all parties concerned (appellant,
bite victim, animal owner and the like). If the sanctions/penalties are upheld,
the animal owner will have 20 days to pay any fines or fees before collection
efforts are initiated. The animal owner may further appeal the decision of the
County Sheriff or his or her designee to the County Superior Court within ten
days of the service of the notice of decision.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   The APS Sergeant or any other person duly authorized to initiate legal
action on behalf of the county may take necessary legal steps to enforce this
chapter. This chapter shall be enforced by imposing the specific sanctions,
penalties, fines and other remedies described herein, by seeking injunctive
relief, orders of abatement, orders of custody and any other means prescribed
by statute or common law. Any violation of this chapter, which does not carry a
specific sanction, penalty or fine, shall be punishable as a general criminal
misdemeanor to the extent permitted by applicable state law.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
RABIES CONTROL AND VACCINATION
§ 90.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Domestic dogs, cats and ferrets.
   BITE. The act of an animal seizing flesh with its teeth or jaws so as to
tear, pierce or injure the flesh.
   CATS. Any and all domestic felines.
   CONFINEMENT. Impoundment within the County Animal Shelter or other
appropriate facility.
   DOGS. Any and all domestic canines.
   HARBORER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
keeping, providing shelter or refuge, hiding or concealing an animal or
allowing an animal to remain on their property.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The administrative head of the Stanly County Health
Department that exercises powers and duties prescribed by law.
   OWNER. Any person, groups of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of or taking care of an animal or allowing an
animal to remain on their property for more than 120 hours.
   POTENTIAL CARRIER OF RABIES. Any wildlife or domestic animal known to harbor
or carry the rabies virus.
   RABIES VACCINATOR. A person appointed and certified to administer rabies
vaccine or a licensed veterinarian.
   RABIES VACCINE. An animal rabies vaccine approved by the United States
Department of Agriculture for use in this state.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.021 VACCINATION FOR RABIES.
   Owners of dogs, cats and ferrets shall comply with the provisions of this
section.
   (A)   Vaccination. The owner of every dog, cat and ferret shall have the
animal vaccinated against rabies at four months of age, again at one year after
initial vaccination, and then every three years by a licensed veterinarian or
by a certified rabies vaccinator with a rabies vaccine approved by the United
States Department of Agriculture and approved by the State Commission for
Public Health for use in this state. A vaccine will be considered current more
than 28 days after the vaccine is administered.
   (B)   Rabies tags.
      (1)   A licensed veterinarian or a certified rabies vaccinator who
administers rabies vaccine to a dog, cat or ferret shall issue a rabies
vaccination tag to the owner of the animal. The rabies vaccination tag shall
show the year issued, a vaccination number, the words “North Carolina” or the
initials “NC” and the words “rabies vaccine.”
      (2)   The owner shall make sure that their dog wears the rabies tag at
all times and the owner of a cat or ferret shall make sure that the rabies tag
for the cat or ferret is readily available at all times.
   (C)   Rabies vaccination certificates.
      (1)   The owner of a dog, cat or ferret must be able to produce a current
rabies vaccination certificate. This certificate shall be issued by a licensed
veterinarian or a certified vaccinator at the time the dog, cat or ferret is
vaccinated. A copy of the certificate shall also be mailed or delivered to the
APS Sergeant by the licensed veterinarian or certified rabies vaccinator within
30 days of the animal being vaccinated.
      (2)   County residents who have their animals vaccinated outside of the
county are responsible for filing the rabies vaccination certificate with APS
within three days of the inoculation or within three days of their return to
the local area. A vaccine must be given by a veterinarian or certified rabies
vaccinator in the state.
   (D)   Non-transferable. Rabies tags cannot be transferred from animal to
animal.
   (E)   Lost, destroyed or stolen rabies tags. If a rabies tag is lost,
destroyed or stolen, a duplicate tag must be obtained from the veterinarian at
a fee not to exceed the actual cost of the tag, link and rivets, plus
transportation cost.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 BITES AND CONFINEMENT.
   In order that rabies may be controlled, all persons shall comply with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Persons bitten. Wounds inflicted by a potential carrier of rabies
shall be reported immediately to the Health Director by the person who has been
bitten, or in case of a child, his or her parents, guardian or other
responsible party. Any person who has knowledge of a potential carrier of
rabies inflicting a wound shall immediately report the same to the Health
Director, and provide the names and addresses of the person(s) bitten and the
names and addresses of the owner(s) of any animals involved, if known. Every
physician who treats a wound inflicted by a potential carrier of rabies shall
report the incident to the Health Director and provide the names and addresses
of the person(s) bitten and the names and addresses of the owner(s) of any
animals involved, if known, within 24 hours of rendering treatment.
   (B)   Confinement of biting dogs, cats and ferrets and confinement of
animals suspected of having rabies.
      (1)   Every dog, cat or ferret that bites a human being shall be confined
immediately. The animal shall be delivered by the owner within 24 hours of the
incident to the Animal Shelter or to a licensed veterinary hospital located in
the county. If the owner fails to deliver said animal within 24 hours to an
approved location, the animal shall be picked up by an APS officer for
transport to the Animal Shelter. The animal shall be confined for observation
for not less than ten days. The owner shall be responsible for the cost of
confinement at either place. The Health Director shall have final authority to
order confinement of a dog, cat or ferret to the Animal Shelter or to a
licensed veterinary hospital located in the county. After reviewing the
circumstances of a particular case, the Health Director may permit the animal
to be confined on the premises of the owner, but only after an inspection and
recommendation from the APS Sergeant and proof that the animal is current on
vaccination against rabies. The APS Sergeant’s recommendation shall be based on
the availability of a suitable secure enclosure on the owner’s premises and
whether or not other circumstances warrant confinement on the owner’s premises.
      (2)   An owner, harborer or possessor of an animal which is suspected of
having rabies shall immediately notify the Health Director and shall, if safely
possible, securely confine the animal until further instructed by the Health
Director.
   (C)   Destruction of infected dogs, cats and ferrets. If a dog, cat or
ferret, in or out of confinement, is suspected of having rabies, as determined
by a licensed veterinarian, it shall be the duty of the owner to have such
animal euthanized and sent for appropriate testing under the supervision of the
Health Director. Any dog, cat or ferret known to have been bitten by another
animal which is known or proved to be rabid shall be euthanized immediately by
the owner or by the APS Sergeant unless the dog, cat or ferret has been
vaccinated against rabies more than 28 days prior to being bitten and is given
a booster dose of rabies vaccine within 96 hours of the bite. As an alternative
to euthanasia, the dog or cat may be quarantined at a facility approved by the
Health Director for a period up to four months, and under reasonable conditions
imposed by the Health Director. As an alternative to euthanasia, the ferret may
be quarantined at a facility approved by the Health Director for a period up to
six months, and under reasonable conditions imposed by the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.023 SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   Violations of this subchapter are punishable by prosecution in criminal
court as provided by G.S. § 14-4 and G.S. § 130A-25, unless a greater penalty
is provided elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed
in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
   (A)   Failure to keep rabies tags on dogs and failure to keep rabies tags of
cats and ferrets readily available at all times. It shall be a violation if a
dog is observed by an APS officer not wearing a valid rabies tag, regardless of
whether or not the dog is on or off the owner’s property, and regardless of
whether or not the dog has been vaccinated. It shall be a violation of this
section if, upon request of an APS officer, the owner of a cat or ferret cannot
readily produce a valid rabies tag for said cat or ferret regardless of whether
or not the cat or ferret is on or off the owner’s property and regardless of
whether or not the cat or ferret has been vaccinated.
   (B)   Failure to produce proof of vaccination and/or failure to have animal
vaccinated when the owner is known.
      (1)   (a)   In addition to any civil penalties that may be imposed for
violation of subsection (A) above, the owner of a dog, cat or ferret may be
assessed a civil penalty for violation of this subsection, if he or she fails
to produce proof of vaccination and/or fails to have the animal vaccinated
within 72 hours of the issuance of a written notice of violation of subsection
(A) above. The notice of violation of division (A) above shall specify that the
owner has 72 hours to produce proof of vaccination and/or to have the animal
vaccinated and failure to do so shall result in the assessment of a civil
penalty for violation of this subsection.
         (b)    If the owner presents proof of vaccination within 72 hours of
the issuance of the notice of violation of subsection (A) above, a civil
penalty for violation of this subsection shall not be assessed. Having the
animal vaccinated or showing proof of vaccination shall not discharge any civil
penalties previously assessed for violation of subsection (A) above.
      (2)   (a)   If the animal is not vaccinated and/or the civil penalty/
penalties is/are not paid within 72 hours, APS shall have the authority to
summarily seize the animal. The owner shall have three days from the date of
seizure to redeem the animal. The owner may redeem the animal by paying the
civil penalty/penalties, the redemption fee and all boarding fees. If the owner
wishes to request a review of the seizure of the animal, the owner must file a
written request with the County Sheriff within three days of the seizure. If a
timely request is filed, the County Sheriff shall schedule a hearing within ten
days of receipt of said request.
         (b)   The County Sheriff shall hear the case and render a written
decision within three days after the hearing and serve the same on the owner.
If the owner disagrees with the County Sheriff’s decision, the owner may seek a
review by the County Superior Court within ten days of the issuance of the
County Sheriff’s written decision. If the owner fails to redeem the animal, or
fails to timely request a review of the seizure, or fails to timely appeal the
County Sheriff’s written decision, the animal shall become the property of the
county and shall be disposed of according to this chapter.
      (3)   The APS officer may, in addition, issue a criminal summons or
warrant, pursuant to G.S. § 130A-25 for the owner’s violation of the G.S.§§
130A-185 or 130A-192.
   (C)   Dogs without valid rabies tags and the owner is unknown. If a dog is
observed not wearing a valid rabies vaccination tag and the owner is unknown
and cannot be found, the APS Sergeant or his or her designee may impound the
dog. Written notice of impoundment shall be posted at the Animal Shelter for a
minimum of 120 hours from time of impoundment. If the dog has not been redeemed
by the owner after 120 hours, the dog shall become the property of the county
to be disposed of according to this chapter. If the owner is found, the dog
shall be released upon payment of all redemption fees and a civil penalty for
failure to wear a valid rabies vaccination tag. The owner may also be subject
to other appropriate penalties described in Article IV, such as a civil penalty
for the dog being at large.
   (D)   Failure to provide animal protective services with rabies vaccination
certificates. Any veterinarian or certified rabies vaccinator, who willfully
refuses to turn over rabies vaccination certificates to APS pursuant to G.S. §
130A-189, shall be subject to the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant or
the filing of a civil action to obtain the certificates.
   (E)   Failure to notify animal protective services of a biting incident and
failure to confine biting dogs, cats and ferrets. If the owner of a dog, cat or
ferret, or the person being bitten or the parent of a child or other legal
guardian or person standing in loco parentis of the person, fails to notify the
Health Director and provide the names and addresses of the person(s) bitten and
the names and addresses of the owner(s) of any animals involved in a biting
incident; or the owner, who has knowledge of a dog, cat or ferret biting
incident, fails to confine the animal pursuant to §
90.022, an APS officer or Health Director may seek the issuance of a criminal
summons or warrant charging the person with a violation of G.S. § 130A-196.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 90.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every non-human domestic species, livestock or fowl.
   CRUELTY AND CRUEL TREATMENT. Every act, omission or act of neglect whereby
unjustifiable, pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted, or attempted to
be caused or permitted, against animals, as well as acts or attempted acts of
teasing, molesting, baiting or trapping animals unlawfully. By way of example
and not limitation, the following acts or conditions shall constitute prima
facie evidence of ANIMAL CRUELTY:
      (1)   A collar, rope or chain embedded in or causing injury to an
animal’s neck;
      (2)   Dogs or cats left out in the rain, snow, extreme heat or cold
without shelter (this includes not providing shelter from the elements when
using a humane trap for lawfully capturing an animal);
      (3)   Animals that have not been fed or watered adequately;
      (4)   Intentionally allowing animals to engage in a fight;
      (5)   Allowing animals to live in unsanitary conditions;
      (6)   Allowing animals to live under crowded conditions; and
      (7)   Failure or refusal of an owner to obtain medical treatment for an
animal when, in an APS officer’s opinion, such treatment is needed.
   OWNER. Any person, groups of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of or taking care of an animal.
   PERSON. Any human being, firm, partnership or corporation including any
nonprofit corporation.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure of at least four sides, and a roof and a
floor that provides adequate protection from the elements, including, but not
limited to, heat, cold, rain, wind and snow.
      (1)   (a)   The enclosure should be large enough to allow the dog to
freely and comfortably stand up and turn around, but small enough to enable the
dog to retain body heat. The enclosure shall have a slanted, waterproof roof to
allow the elements to run off. If the house is made of wood, it shall be raised
off the ground at least two inches in order to prevent the rotting of the
floor. The door shall be just large enough to allow the dog to enter easily.
Clean, dry bedding, such as hay, straw or cedar shavings, shall be provided.
         (b)   The bedding shall be changed as often as necessary to keep it
sanitary. During warmer months, the dog shall be provided with shade from the
sun. Shade may be provided via a tree or a tarp at a minimum. Anytime the dog
is outside, the water should be provided in a container secured in a manner to
prevent spilling. During colder months, the outside container(s) of water shall
be monitored to prevent freezing.
      (2)   The following methods of housing/sheltering animals are considered
inadequate:
         (a)   Underneath outside steps, decks and stoops;
         (b)   Inside of vehicles;
         (c)   Underneath vehicles;
         (d)   Inside metal barrels; or
         (e)   Inside cardboard boxes.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.036 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to agencies conducting biomedical research
or training, lawful activities for sport, the production of livestock or
poultry for sale as a consumer product and the lawful destruction of any animal
for the purpose of protecting livestock, poultry or humans.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.037 GENERAL CARE AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   All animals shall be kept and treated under sanitary and humane conditions
and failure of the owner or possessor of the animal to abide by the provisions
listed below shall subject the owner or possessor to the sanctions described in
§§
90.039 and
90.999.
   (A)   Food, water and shelter. All animals in the possession of any persons
shall be provided proper and adequate food and water. All animals, unless
otherwise indicated in the chapter, shall be given at suitable intervals, not
to exceed 24 hours, a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species
and age, sufficient to maintain a healthful level of nutrition. All animals
shall have access to a constant supply of clean, fresh water. All animals shall
be provided proper and adequate shelter from the weather at all times.
   (B)   Clean shelter. All shelter for animals and the area surrounding said
shelter shall be kept clean and sanitary at all times. Unacceptable unsanitary
conditions shall include, but not be limited to, the accumulation of feces,
urine, debris, plant overgrowth and/or pest infestation within and/or around
the area confining the animal.
   (C)   Medical treatment. All owners or possessors of animals shall provide
proper medical attention for sick, diseased or injured animals. A sick animal
shall go no longer than 24 hours without veterinary care.
   (D)   Cruelty and cruel treatment. No person shall beat, torment, overload,
overwork, tease, molest or bait an animal or otherwise cruelly treat an animal
as defined in §
90.035. No person shall shoot a dog or any other animal, either on or off the
owner’s property, unless the animal is in the act of attacking a human being,
sheep, cattle, hog, goat or poultry or any domestic animal. This shall not
apply to APS officers when in the performance of their duties.
   (E)   Illegal contest or combat. No person shall cause, permit or instigate
any dog fight, cockfight, bullfight or other illegal contest or combat between
animals or animals and humans.
   (F)   Poisoning of animals. No person shall expose any known poisonous
substance or mix a poisonous substance with food, so that it will likely be
eaten by any animal. This does not include acts or attempts of persons to rid
their own property of rats and vermin.
   (G)   Confining animals to motor vehicles or transporting animals. No person
shall leave an animal in a closed car, truck or other vehicle for such duration
or at temperatures as an APS officer, in his or her sole discretion, deems
harmful or potentially harmful to the animal. No person shall carry or cause to
be carried in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner.
   (H)   Abandonment. No person shall tum loose or discard any domesticated
animal or pet. Any dog, cat or ferret left without food, water or shelter for
24 hours will be considered abandoned and may be seized by the APS.
   (I)   Disposing of dead animals. All possessors or owners of animals that
die, from any cause, shall bury the dead animal to a depth of at least three
feet beneath the surface of the ground on his or her leased or owned property.
No animal shall be buried within 300 feet of any flowing stream or public body
of water. In the alternative, said animal shall be completely burned or
otherwise disposed of in a manner approved by the State Veterinarian or the
State Department of Agriculture. In any event, all dead animals shall be
disposed of within 24 hours after knowledge of the death. No possessor or owner
of a dead animal shall remove the carcass of a dead animal from his premises to
the premises of another person without written permission of the person having
charge of such premises and without burying said carcass as provided above.
   (J)   Reporting injured or killed domestic animals. All persons who injure
or kill a domesticated animal by running over, into or otherwise coming in
contact with such an animal with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or other
vehicle shall notify the owner of the animal immediately. If the owner is not
known, the person who injured or killed the animal shall immediately notify APS
or the Police Department if the injury or death occurred in the city or the
County Sheriff’s Office if the injury or death occurred in the county. The
person who injured or killed the animal shall give his or her name and address
to the appropriate authority. An owner or lessee of real property who finds an
injured or suffering domesticated animal on his or her property shall report
the same to APS as soon as the animal is discovered on the real property.
   (K)   Animals given away as prizes. No live animal shall be given away,
raffled or offered as a prize, premium or advertising device for, or as an
inducement to enter, any contest, game or other competition involving skill or
chance.
   (L)   Public exhibits of animals. APS shall have the authority to inspect
public exhibits of animals which are a part of fairs, carnivals, festivals,
fund raising events, petting zoos and any other activity or function carried on
in the county. County APS shall have the authority to close down any exhibit,
function or activity if it is determined that animals are being cruelly treated
or animals run the risk of causing injury or harm to the public or run the risk
of being injured or harmed themselves. APS, the County Sheriff’s Office, nor
the county accept any liability for any injury, damage of property or loss
visiting or monitoring public exhibits of animals.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 FAILURE TO REPORT ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   An owner or lessee of property who knows, or based on facts and
circumstances should know, that animals are being or have been cruelly treated
on the owner’s or lessee’s real property, shall report said act or acts of
cruelty to the APS.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A) Violations of this subchapter are punishable by prosecution in criminal
court as provided by G.S. §§ 14-4, 14-360 and/or 130A-25, unless a greater
penalty is provided elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties, as
prescribed in this section, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by
civil action and/or by the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted
by applicable law(s). Whenever it has been determined by an APS officer that
the owner of an animal, possessor of an animal or any person is in violation of
any of the provisions found in §
90.037, in addition to the aforementioned criminal and civil remedies, the
Officer may seize the animal(s), pursuant to applicable laws, and/or issue
written notices of violation. If it is determined by an APS officer that an
animal is not in immediate danger, or the condition or problem which gives rise
to inadequate care or cruel treatment can be corrected immediately or within a
short period of time, not to exceed 72 hours, he or she may issue a written
notice of violation requesting the owner or possessor of the animal to cease
and desist or to correct the problem within 72 hours. If the condition or
problem is not corrected within 72 hours or the owner or possessor of the
animal fails to cease or desist from cruel treatment or fails to adequately
provide for the animal, the APS officer may institute seizure and/or criminal
proceedings.
   (B)   Violation of §
90.037(D), (E), (F), (G), (H) or (I).
      (1)   When it has been determined by an APS officer that there has been a
violation of one or more of divisions (D), (E), (F), (G), (H) or (I) of §
90.037, he or she may initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant
for violating the following criminal statutes:
         (a)   “Cruelty to Animals,” G.S. § 14-360;
         (b)   “Abandonment of Animals,” G.S. § 14-361.1;
         (c)   “Cockfighting and Animal Fights and Baiting, Other than Cock
Fights, Dog Fights and Dog Baiting,” G.S. §§ 14-362 and 14-362.1;
         (d)   “Conveying Animals in a Cruel Manner,” G.S. § 14-363;
         (e)   “Putting Poisonous Foodstuffs, Antifreeze, etc. in Certain
Public Places, Prohibited,” G.S. § 14-401; and
         (f)   “Disposition of Dead Domesticated Animals and Prohibited Acts,
Penalties,” G.S. §§ 106-403 and 106-405.
      (2)   Any person found guilty under any of the above criminal statutes
shall be subject to the penalty therein prescribed, or, if no penalty is
therein prescribed, then according to G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Violation of §
90.037(B).
      (1)   Notwithstanding the other provisions and sanctions of this
subchapter, when it has been determined by an APS officer that animals have
been allowed to live in unsanitary conditions, and that said conditions
resulted from the owner’s unwillingness or inability to clean the area where
animals are housed or that the conditions resulted from the number of animals
involved, APS may seize the animals pursuant to applicable laws.
      (2)   Before the animals are seized, the APS Sergeant shall issue a
declaration of unsanitary conditions and notice of seizure to the owner. If the
owner wishes to request a review of the seizure of the animals, the owner must
file a written request with the County Sheriff within three days of the
seizure. If a timely request is filed, the County Sheriff shall schedule a
hearing within ten days of receipt of said request. The County Sheriff shall
hear the case and render a written decision within three days after the hearing
and serve the same on the owner.
      (3)   If the owner disagrees with the County Sheriff’s decision, the
owner may seek a review by the County Superior Court within ten days of the
issuance of the County Sheriff’s written decision. If the owner fails to timely
request a review of the seizure or fails to timely appeal the County Sheriff’s
written decision, the animal shall become the property of the county and shall
be disposed of according to this chapter.
   (D)   Violation of §
90.037(J) reporting injured or killed domestic animals.
      (1)   When it has been determined by an APS officer that a domesticated
animal has been injured or killed, as a result of coming into contact with an
automobile, motorcycle, bicycle or other vehicle, and the person operating said
conveyance fails to report the same, and the operator can be identified by an
eyewitness or physical evidence, the APS officer may issue a written notice of
violation and civil penalty to the operator.
      (2)   Any owner or lessee of real property who fails to report the
existence of an injured or suffering domesticated animal on his or her property
as required by §
90.037(J) above, may be issued a written notice of violation and civil penalty.
   (E)   Violation of §
90.037(K) or (L). Any person who violates §
90.037(K) or (L) shall be subject to the issuance of a criminal warrant or
summons and be subject to the penalties described in §
90.999(D).
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOGS; NUISANCE BEHAVIOR AND CONFINEMENT
§ 90.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog out of compliance with the definition of “restraint”
below, and not under physical restraint.
   DOG. Any and all domestic canines.
   DOG NUISANCE. The owner shall be responsible for any dog creating a
nuisance. The following qualifying act(s) or conditions described below shall
be deemed prima facie evidence of an animal nuisance:
      (1)   Is at large off of the premises of its owner and not under
restraint of a person;
      (2)   Chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise molests pedestrians,
bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers or farm stock or domestic animals;
      (3)   Gets into or turns over garbage pails;
      (4)   Damages gardens or other foliage or other real or personal
property;
      (5)   Habitually or continuously loiters on school grounds or official
county parks or recreation areas or city/town parks or recreation areas
(applicable in the city/town only if the enforcement of this chapter is adopted
by a city/town in the county by resolution);
      (6)   Is a dangerous animal as defined in §§
90.085 through
90.092;
      (7)   Is maintained in an unsanitary condition as to be offensive to
sight or smell; or
      (8)   Is diseased and dangerous to the health of the public.
   IN ESTRUS. A female dog in what is commonly called “heat.”
   NIGHTTIME. The time from one hour after sunset until one hour before
sunrise.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge or taking care of any animal or allowing any
animal to remain on their property for 120 hours.
   OWNER’S PROPERTY. The owner’s property is that area described in a deed of
conveyance or the area described in a lease. In a situation involving
townhouses or condominiums, APS will treat the “common areas” as being owned by
the Homeowner’s Association. In a situation involving leased apartments, APS
will treat the “common areas” as being owned by the lessor/property owner.
   PRIOR COMPLAINTS. For purposes of this chapter, any prior verbal or written
complaint to APS about a specific dog being at large, or any verbal or written
complaint about any dogs of an owner being at large, shall constitute a prior
complaint.
   RESTRAINT.
      (1)   A dog is under restraint if it is:
         (a)   Inside a secure enclosure that is size appropriate for the dog
contained with sides of sufficient height and depth to prevent the animal from
jumping, climbing or digging out of the enclosure;
         (b)   Inside the primary residence of the owner/harborer when on the
owner’s/harborer’s property;
         (c)   Controlled by a leash of sufficient means to restrain the dog
and under control of a competent person when outside a secure enclosure or
home;
         (d)   Inside an area on the owner’s property secured by a functional,
properly maintained electronic fencing device;
         (e)   Within the passenger area of a vehicle, restrained in a safe
manner to prevent the dog from jumping over the sides or out of an open bed
truck, or in a secure enclosure on a vehicle or trailer;
         (f)   Under the control of a licensed hunter while said dog is in the
act of hunting or training for hunting as regulated by the State Wildlife
Resources Commission;
         (g)   Participating in an animal show, competition or field trial;
         (h)   Sufficiently near the owner or a competent handler on the
owner’s property to be under his or her direct control while playing with or
socializing with the dog and the dog is obedient to that person’s commands;
         (i)   1.   Tethered by means of a size appropriate chain, cable or
like device not less than eight feet in length with swivel fasteners at both
ends of the tether. Tethers shall be fastened to a collar (not choke or pinch
collar) or harness on the dog and attached to a D-ring on the collar or
harness.
            2.   It shall be unlawful to tether a dog in such a manner as to
cause injury or pain, or not permit it to reach shelter, food and water; or
         (j)   1.   On the owner’s property that is three acres or greater and
remains under the control of their owner on that parcel of land.
            2.   Under these conditions, the dog does not have to be actively
restrained by means of a fence, tether or other secure enclosure if control can
be maintained and the dog restricted to the owner’s property.
      (2)   An APS officer may, at his or her discretion, order a more
restrictive restraint requirement if circumstances require and it is not
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the dog.
      (3)   Exemptions to this definition include law enforcement working
canines, service dogs, search and rescue dogs and human remains detection dogs.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.051 DOGS AT LARGE.
   The owner of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times as
specified in §
90.050.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.052 FEMALE DOGS IN ESTRUS.
   An owner shall secure a female dog in estrus within a building or secure
enclosure.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.053 DOG CREATING A NUISANCE.
   The owner shall be responsible for any dog creating a nuisance, and it shall
be a violation of this subchapter if a dog engages in any of the acts mentioned
in §
90.054 or within the definition of “dog nuisance” in §
90.050.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.054 RESTRAINT AND HOUSING; PUBLIC WAYS.
   Any dog housed or restrained less than 15 feet from public street, road or
sidewalk may be deemed a public nuisance if, in the discretion of APS, the dog
poses a threat to the general safety, health and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.055 INTENTIONAL VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to intentionally or
willfully cause a dog to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.056 SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Dogs at large and confinement of dogs in estrus. Violations of §§
90.051 and
90.052 are punishable by prosecution in criminal court as provided by G.S. §§
14-4 and 130A-25, unless a greater penalty is provided elsewhere, or by the
imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
      (1)   Dogs at large during the day. If APS receives a “first time” at
large complaint and an APS officer does not personally observe the dog at
large, the officer shall investigate said complaint. The APS officer shall have
authority to go on and about private property to investigate said complaint.
Upon a finding of probable cause to believe the dog was at large he or she may
issue a written notice of violation and civil penalty. If an APS officer
observes a dog at large or not appropriately under restraint as required by
this article, he or she may impound the dog even on a “first time” complaint.
         (a)   The owner of a dog deemed at large may be issued a written
notice of violation and assessed a civil penalty for the first violation and
additional civil penalties for each subsequent violation. If the dog is
impounded, the owner must redeem the dog within 120 hours. If the owner fails
to redeem the dog within 120 hours, the dog shall become the property of the
county and may be disposed of according to this chapter. To redeem the dog the
owner must pay the civil penalty, all boarding fees and the redemption fee.
         (b)   When the same dog has been impounded three times or the owner
has been cited three times for his or her dog(s) being at large, the APS
Sergeant shall declare the dog(s) a public nuisance and/or cite the owner for
maintaining a public nuisance. The dog(s) shall then be housed or confined
according to the instructions of the APS officer. If the dog(s) is/are
subsequently found at large or the owner is subsequently cited for his or her
dog(s) being at large, the APS officer may impound the dog(s) due to the
owner’s failure to abate the nuisance.
         (c)   The owner of a dog, which is involved in the unprovoked bite of
another person, while the dog is running at large, shall be assessed a civil
penalty for the unprovoked bite in addition to a civil penalty for the dog
running at large.
      (2)   Dog at large at night. When the APS officer has probable cause to
believe that a dog was or is at large at night, he or she may initiate the
issuance of a criminal summons or warrant charging the owner with a violation
of G.S. § 67-12, and the owner shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
90.999(E). The owner of a dog that allows same to run at large at night shall
also be liable in damages to any person injured or suffering lost to his
property or chattels.
      (3)   Failure to confine female dog in estrus. When the APS officer has
probable cause to believe that an owner has failed or refused to confine a
female dog in estrus (heat) in a building or secure enclosure, he or she shall
initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant charging the owner with
a violation of G.S. § 67-2 and the owner shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
90.999(F).
      (4)   Private remedies. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent a
private citizen from suing the owner of a dog, which has caused injury to said
private citizen or his or her property for damages or any other loss resulting
from a dog being at large.
   (B)   Dog nuisances. Violations of this §§
90.053 through
90.055 are punishable by prosecution in criminal court as provided by G.S. §
14-4 and G.S. §§ 130A-25, unless a greater penalty is provided elsewhere, or by
the imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
      (1)   Warnings. When an APS officer determines that a violation of §
90.054 has occurred, he or she may issue a written warning of violation and
notice of public nuisance, which shall be served on the owner. The owner shall
be responsible for abating the nuisance within 72 hours by making sure his or
her dog does not engage in any further act or acts which may constitute a
nuisance.
      (2)   Failure to abate the nuisance. If the dog engages in any further
act(s) or if the owner of the dog fails to abate the condition which
constitutes the nuisance within 72 hours, the APS officer may issue a notice of
violation and civil penalty for the first offense and additional penalties for
any subsequent offense. If the owner fails to abate the nuisance after the
second civil penalty, APS may seize and impound the dog. If the dog is seized,
the APS officer must post a notice of impoundment with the owner. The owner may
reclaim the dog upon payment of civil fees, redemption fees and boarding fees.
If the dog is not reclaimed within 120 hours, it shall become the property of
the county and shall be disposed of according to this chapter.
      (3)   Owner unknown. In situations where the owner of a dog is unknown
and the dog is a nuisance, the APS officer shall impound the dog. If the owner
does not redeem the dog within 120 hours, the dog shall become the property of
the county and can be disposed of according to this chapter.
      (4)   Dog housed or restrained less than 15 feet from public way.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the other sanctions mentioned above, when it has
been determined by an APS officer that a dog has been housed or restrained
within 15 feet of a public street, road or sidewalk, and the dog poses a threat
to the public, but the dog is not in the street, road or on the sidewalk, he or
she shall issue a warning to the owner requesting the owner to move the dog. If
the owner refuses to move the dog, the APS officer shall issue a notice of
violation and civil penalty for the first offense and additional penalties for
each subsequent offense. After the second offense, the APS officer may impound
the dog. He or she must leave a notice of impoundment with the owner or affix
the notice to the premises. The owner shall have 120 hours to redeem the dog.
The owner must pay any and all outstanding civil penalties, redemptions fees
and boarding fees in order to redeem the dog. If the owner fails to redeem the
dog within 120 hours the dog shall become the property of the county to be
disposed of according to this chapter.
         (b)   If a dog is housed or restrained within 15 feet of a public
street, road or sidewalk and the dog poses a threat to the public, and it is
found in the public street, road or on the sidewalk and the owner is not at
home or refuses to remove said dog from the public street, road or sidewalk,
the APS officer may impound the dog. He or she must leave a notice of
impoundment with the owner or affix the notice to the premises. The APS officer
may issue a notice of violation and civil penalty for a first offense and
additional penalties for each subsequent offense. The owner shall have 120
hours to redeem the dog. The owner must pay any and all outstanding civil
penalties, redemptions fees and boarding fees in order to redeem the dog. If
the owner fails to redeem the dog within 120 hours the dog shall become the
property of the county to be disposed of according to this chapter.
      (5)   Intentionally or willfully causing a dog to violate this
subchapter. If APS finds that there is probable cause to believe that a person
has intentionally or willfully caused or enticed a dog to be in violation of §§
90.053 through
90.055, it may initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant.
      (6)   Private remedies. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent a
private citizen from suing the owner of a dog with has caused injury to said
private citizen or his or her property for damages or any other loss resulting
from an animal being a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
CATS; NUISANCE BEHAVIOR AND CONFINEMENT
§ 90.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CATS. Any and all domestic felines.
   IN ESTRUS. A female cat in what is commonly called “heat.”
   NUISANCE. The owner shall be responsible for any cat(s) creating a nuisance.
The Commission on more than one occasion of any of the following qualifying act
(s) or conditions described below shall be deemed prima facie evidence of a cat
nuisance:
      (l)   Gets into or turns over garbage pails;
      (2)   Walks on, sleeps on or scratches an automobile of another;
      (3)   Damages gardens or other foliage or other real or personal
property;
      (4)   Is found on the property of another;
      (5)   Roams;
      (6)   Is maintained in an unsanitary condition so as to be offensive to
sight or smell; or
      (7)   In estrus is not confined to a building or secure enclosure.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge or taking care of any cat or allowing any cat to
remain on their property for 120 hours or more.
   OWNER’S PROPERTY.
      (1)   The owner’s property is that area described in a deed of conveyance
or the area described in a lease. In a situation involving townhouses or
condominiums, APS will treat the “common areas” as being owned by the
Homeowner’s Association.
      (2)   In a situation involving leased apartments, APS will treat the
“common areas” as being owned by the lessor/property owner.
   PRIOR COMPLAINTS. Any verified verbal or written complaint to APS about a
specific cat being a nuisance or any verified verbal or written complaint about
an owner allowing his or her cat or cats to be a nuisance shall constitute a
prior complaint.
   STRAY CATS AT LARGE. APS will not routinely pick up stray cats, but will
assist residents to trap and seize these animals.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.071 CATS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an owner to allow his or her cat
(s) to engage in any of the acts listed in the definition of “nuisance” in §
90.070 on more than one occasion. The owner and the cat shall be subject to the
sanctions, penalties, fines and remedies stated in §§
90.073 and
90.999.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.072 FEMALE CATS IN ESTRUS.
   Any owner who fails to secure a female cat in estrus (heat) within a
building or secure enclosure shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.073 SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   Violations of this subchapter are punishable by prosecution in criminal
court as provided by G.S. §§ 14-4 and 130A-25, unless a greater penalty is
provided elsewhere, or by the imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
   (A)   Cat nuisance. Upon receiving a first complaint about a cat or cat
owner and after finding probable cause to believe that the cat or cat owner has
committed one or more acts listed in the definition of “nuisance” in §
90.070 , APS shall issue a written warning to the owner. If APS receives a
second complaint about a cat and after investigating said complaint there is
probable cause to believe that a cat or the owner has again engaged in one or
more acts described in the definition of “nuisance” in §
90.070, the APS officer shall issue a written notice of public nuisance to the
owner.
      (1)   The notice of public nuisance shall inform the owner that a civil
penalty will be issued if the cat or any other cat owned by him or her is found
to be in violation of this subchapter again. If this subchapter is violated
after the issuance of the notice of public nuisance, the APS officer shall
issue a notice of violation and civil penalty.
      (2)   (a)   If, after the issuance of a notice of public nuisance, a cat
is physically caught off of the owner’s property, the cat may be impounded. A
notice of impoundment and notice of violation and civil penalty shall be left
with the owner or affixed to the owner’s premises. The owner must redeem the
cat within 120 hours.
         (b)   The owner must pay all outstanding civil penalties, redemption
fees and boarding fees in order to redeem the cat. If the owner fails to redeem
the cat within 120 hours, the cat shall become the property of the county and
shall be disposed of according to this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   When the same cat has been impounded three times or the owner
has been cited three times for his or her being a nuisance, the APS officer may
issue a notice of abatement which contains specific written instructions as to
how the cat(s) must be confined to the owner’s property.
         (b)   If the cat(s) is/are subsequently found to be a nuisance or the
owner is subsequently cited for allowing his or her cat(s) to be a nuisance,
APS may impound the cat(s) and the APS officer shall initiate an action in
District Court for custody of the cat(s) based on the owner’s failure to abate
the nuisance.
   (B)   Failure to confine a female cat in estrus. When the APS officer has
probable cause to believe that an owner has failed or refused to confine a
female cat in heat in a building or secure enclosure, he or she may initiate
the issuance of a civil penalty as provided under this chapter.
   (C)   Private remedies. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent a private
citizen from suing the owner of a cat, which has caused injury to said private
citizen or his or her property for damages or any other loss resulting from a
cat being a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
STRAY, DANGEROUS OR WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Domestic animals such as dogs, cats and ferrets.
   AT LARGE. When any previously determined dangerous animal is off of the
property of its owner and not under restraint or when any previously determined
dangerous animal is not confined to a secure enclosure while on the property of
its owner, it shall be deemed at large.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person;
      (2)   Is determined by APS to be potentially dangerous because the animal
has engaged in one or more of the behaviors listed in the definition of a
“potentially dangerous animal”; or
      (3)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting, or any animal trained for fighting.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. An animal which falls within any of the
following categories:
      (1)   A non-human primate;
      (2)   Canidae, including any member of the dog (Canid) family not
customarily domesticated by man, or any hybrids thereof, including, but not
limited to, wolves and wolf hybrids, which are a cross between a wolf and a
domestic dog, but not including domestic dogs (Canisfamiliaris);
      (3)   Felidae, including any member of the cat family weighing over 15
pounds not customarily domesticated by humans, and any hybrids thereof, but not
including domestic cats (Felis catus);
      (4)   Ursidae, including any member of the bear family, or any hybrids
thereof; or
      (5)   Venomous reptiles, insects or arachnids not indigenous to the
county.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, harboring, having charge of or taking care of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal or allowing a dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal to remain on their property for 120 hours.
      (2)   Any person, groups of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of or taking care of an animal or allowing an
animal to remain on their property for more than    72 hours. As used with
inherently dangerous exotic animals, OWNER also includes one who allows an
inherently dangerous exotic animal to remain in, be lodged, fed, given shelter
or refuge within the owner’s home, store, yard, enclosure, out-building,
abandoned vehicle or building, place of business or any other premises in which
the person resides or over which the person has control
   OWNER’S PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of a
dangerous animal, not including any public right-of-way or the common areas of
a condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that has been determined to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in any of the following:
         (a)   Broken bones;
         (b)   Disfiguring lacerations or injuries requiring cosmetic surgery;
         (c)   Hospitalization; or
         (d)   Other medical care.
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal, when not
on the owner’s real property; and
      (3)   Approached a person (if the person was not trespassing on the
owner’s property) in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of
attack.
(G.S. § 67-4.1(2))
   RESTRAINT. A dangerous or potentially dangerous animal is restrained if it
is in a secure enclosure or firmly under the control of a competent person.
When the animal is not in a secure enclosure on the owner’s property, it shall
be securely muzzled and under RESTRAINT by a competent person who by means of a
non- retractable appropriately sized leash, not to exceed six feet in length,
has such animal firmly under control at all times. For purposes of this
section, tethering a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal to a stake,
pipe, tree or any other stationary object shall not constitute RESTRAINT. When
the animal is not under the control of a competent person, RESTRAINT shall mean
confinement to a secure enclosure deemed appropriate by the APS Sergeant or his
or her designee.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. An enclosure, the specifications of which are listed
below, from which a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal cannot
escape unless freed by an owner. The SECURE ENCLOSURE shall be enclosed as a
permanent structure with dimensions of at least ten by ten by six feet with at
least six-gauge wire and S-20 framing at the top, sides and bottom of the
structure. If the STRUCTURE does not have a concrete floor, it shall have
vertical sides made of a least six-guage wire that are at least eight feet tall
with at least six feet above ground and at least two feet buried underground.
The door or doors of the SECURE ENCLOSURE must have secure locks on them at all
times the animal is within the structure and not under control of its owner as
outlined in the definition of “owner’s property” above. The APS officer may
approve in writing other structures that will appropriately confine the animal.
Human dwelling units shall not be approved as ENCLOSURES for dangerous animals.
   STRAY. An animal within the county wandering at large or lost without
evidence of the identification of an owner, or any animal within the county
whose owner, if determinable, has failed to pay for and procure a license or
vaccination tag, shall be deemed a stray.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.086 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Persons who harbor, feed or keep in possession by confinement or
otherwise any stray animal which does not belong to him or her are to notify
APS within 72 hours from the time such animal came into his or her possession
to aid in reuniting the animal with their owner. Any person coming into
possession of an animal that does not belong to him or her shall be deemed the
temporary custodian of said animal and after 120 hours of coming into
possession of the animal shall be subject to compliance with all provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender a stray
animal to APS upon demand in order to reunite the animal with their owner.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 DANGEROUS ANIMALS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS; EXEMPTIONS.
   This §§
90.088 through
90.092 shall not apply to a dog being used by a law enforcement officer to
carry out the law enforcement officer’s official duties, or a dog being used in
a lawful hunt, or a dog used as a hunting dog, herding dog or predator control
dog on the property of or under the control of its owner, or a dog where the
injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at the time of the
injury, was committing a willful trespass or tort, was tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the dog, had tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.088 DETERMINATION OF DANGEROUSNESS.
   (A)   (1)   If APS or the County Sheriff receives information that an animal
has exhibited or committed any of the acts described in the dangerous animal or
potentially dangerous animal definitions above, the animal shall be immediately
impounded by APS at the Animal Shelter or other facility approved by the County
Sheriff. The County Sheriff shall make a determination as to whether the animal
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The County Sheriff must issue a written
determination within 120 hours of learning about the dangerous propensity of
the animal. Whatever determination the County Sheriff makes must be placed in
writing. The written decision must contain his reasons for declaring or not
declaring the animal potentially dangerous.
      (2)   If the animal is declared potentially dangerous, specific
instructions in accordance with §
90.089 and any other controls as deemed as necessary by the County Sheriff
shall be given. These instructions must be followed during the pendency of any
appeal filed by the owner and at all times thereafter unless the owner prevails
on appeal. Animals declared dangerous or potentially dangerous shall remain
impounded at the Animal Shelter or other facility approved by the County
Sheriff or APS Sergeant. The animal shall be impounded until such time as the
County Sheriff is satisfied that a secure enclosure is constructed by the owner
and all the aforementioned instructions and controls have been met; however,
dangerous animals or potentially dangerous animals not reclaimed by the owner
within 30 days of being deemed dangerous shall become property of the county
and be humanely destroyed except in cases in which there are pending appeals.
      (3)   All fines, penalties and fees shall be paid by the owner of the
dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal prior to the animal being
reclaimed. The written decision shall be served on the owner of the animal. If
the owner of the animal agrees with the decision, he or she shall go to APS
during its normal operating hours to meet with an APS officer and review
applicable confinement information/ documents within 72 hours of receiving the
written decision.
      (4)   (a)   If the owner of the animal disagrees with the County
Sheriff’s decision, he or she may file a written objection with the APS
Committee within three days of receiving the written decision. The APS
Committee shall schedule a hearing within ten days of receiving the objection.
         (b)   The APS Committee shall render a written decision within three
days after the hearing and serve the same on the owner. The owner may appeal
the APS Committee’s decision to the Superior Court by filing notice of appeal
and a petition for review within ten days of the final decision of the APS
Committee. The appeal shall be heard de novo in Superior Court pursuant to G.S.
§ 67-4.l(c).
   (B)   If the owner of the animal has no contact with APS within 72 hours of
receiving the written decision, the animal will be disposed of in accordance
with this chapter. If the owner so chooses at any time during the determination
of dangerousness process, he or she may surrender the animal.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.089 CONFINEMENT AND RESTRAINT OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL OR POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal
shall keep the animal within a secure enclosure, as defined in §
90.085, on his or her property.
      (2)   When the animal is not in a secure enclosure on the owner’s
property, it shall be securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent
person who by means of a non-retractable, appropriately sized leash, not to
exceed six feet in length, has such animal firmly under control at all times.
The owner shall notify APS immediately of an escape by the animal.
   (B)   All dangerous animals and potentially dangerous animals must be
microchipped for identification by a licensed veterinarian within 20 days at
the owner’s expense and APS provided with the identification number.
   (C)   All owners of dangerous animals and potentially dangerous animals must
post a sign that states “DANGEROUS DOG,” if the animal is a dog, or “DANGEROUS
ANIMAL,” if the animal is not a dog, at the common entrance(s) to the property
and post same on the enclosure where said animal is confined. APS may use their
discretion in requiring additional, non-English languages or pictures on signs.
   (D)   APS shall have the authority to require the owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous animal to procure, and provide proof of liability
insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 at the owner’s expense and to
require the owner to have the insurer notify APS of any change in the insurance
or policy.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.090 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   (1)   If the owner of a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous
animal transfers ownership or possession of the animal to another person, the
owner shall provide APS with written notice prior to the transfer of ownership
or possession. Minimally, said written notice shall contain the anticipated
date of transfer and the name, address and telephone number of the new owner or
person taking possession. Additionally, the owner shall provide written notice
to the new owner or person taking possession that the animal is dangerous or
potentially dangerous, as defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   If the new owner or person taking possession of the animal resides
in the county, then the new owner or person taking possession of the animal
shall be subject to the same confinement restrictions as the prior owner. APS
shall verify the new owner’s or new person taking possession’s ability to
comply with the confinement restrictions prior to the actual transfer of the
animal.
      (3)   If the new owner or person taking possession of the animal does not
reside in the county, then APS shall notify the county of residence of the new
owner or person taking possession of the animal of the animal’s location,
dangerousness and/or potential dangerousness.
   (B)   Should a county resident come into ownership or possession of an
animal previously declared dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
county, the county shall give full faith and credit to the other county’s
deeming of the animal as dangerous or potentially dangerous. The county shall
require the animal and its owner/possessor to comply with the dangerous and/or
potentially dangerous requirements contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.091 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS; EXEMPTIONS, IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to own, possess, keep or harbor an
inherently dangerous exotic animal, as defined in this chapter, within the
county. Upon APS’s discovery of the owning, possessing, keeping or harboring of
an inherently dangerous exotic animal, as defined in this chapter, within the
county, the owner of said animal shall have 72 hours to remove said animal from
the county. The owner shall provide APS with written notice containing the
name, address and telephone number of the new owner or person taking possession
of said animal. Additionally, the owner shall provide written notice to the new
owner or person taking possession that the animal is inherently dangerous. APS
shall notify the county of residence of the new owner or person taking
possession of the animal of the animal’s location and inherent dangerousness.
      (1)   Should the owner not remove the inherently dangerous exotic animal
from the county within 72 hours of discovery, APS shall institute seizure of
said animal and any and all costs of seizure shall be paid by the owner.
      (2)   An owner who owned, possessed, kept or harbored such inherently
dangerous exotic animal on or before the effective date of this chapter shall
remove said animal(s) from the county within six months following the adoption
of this chapter.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Veterinary clinics in possession of such animals for treatment or
rehabilitation purposes;
      (2)   Institutions regulated by the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA);
      (3)   Institutions accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium
Association;
      (4)   Registered non-profit humane societies;
      (5)   APS authority or law enforcement officers acting under authority of
this Act;
      (6)   Any wildlife rehabilitator licensed by the state;
      (7)   Non-resident circuses for no longer than one seven-day period for
separate locations where such circuses are held within the county per calendar
year;
      (8)   Non-resident carnivals for no longer than one seven-day period for
separate locations where such carnivals are held within the county per calendar
year;
      (9)   Persons temporarily transporting such animals through the county,
providing that such transport shall not be longer than 24 hours; and/or
      (10)   Any licensed or accredited research or medical institution or
educational institution.
   (C)   Disposition of impounded animals.
      (1)   (a)   Any inherently dangerous exotic animal which is kept by any
person in violation of this chapter may be taken and impounded by the APS
officer for the protection of the animal, the public or both.
         (b)   Whenever possible, the APS officer shall take and impound the
animal in the presence of its owner; however, if such is not practical, the APS
officer may take and impound such animal consistent with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   If an inherently dangerous exotic animal is impounded pursuant to
this chapter, the owner of the animal shall be notified by the APS officer in
person or by certified mail.
      (3)   Any inherently dangerous exotic animal impounded pursuant to this
chapter will be held three days for the owner to reclaim same, but if the
animal cannot be taken and impounded safely by the APS officer, or if proper
and safe housing cannot be found for the animal, the APS officer may
immediately destroy the animal.
      (4)   The owner of the inherently dangerous exotic animal can reclaim the
animal if he or she can satisfy the APS officer that the safe transfer of the
animal to an appropriate location outside the county has been arranged.
      (5)   If the owner cannot be located, or has not claimed the inherently
dangerous exotic animal within three days after taking and impoundment, the APS
officer shall have the discretion to sell, adopt or euthanize the animal.
      (6)   All costs of taking, impoundment and care of the inherently
dangerous exotic animal will be charged to the owner regardless of whether the
animal is claimed by or returned to said owner. Such costs, along with any
applicable civil penalties, fines and fees, must be paid in full by the owner
prior to the animal being reclaimed.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.092 SANCTIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Stray animals. Violations of §§
90.086 and
90.087 are punishable by prosecution in criminal court as provided by G.S. §§
14-4 and 130A-25, unless a greater penalty is provided elsewhere, or by the
imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
      (1)   Keeping stray animals. When the APS officer has determined that a
person has violated §
90.086, he or she may issue a written notice of violation and civil penalty to
the person in violation. Once APS takes possession of a stray animal, it shall
be placed in the Animal Shelter for redemption by the owner. If the owner is
not found or the animal is not redeemed after 120 hours, the animal shall
become the property of the county and may be disposed of according to this
chapter.
      (2)   Refusal to surrender stray animal. Any person who fails or refuses
to surrender a stray animal to APS after demand shall be subject to the
provisions of §
90.999(H).
   (B)   Dangerous animals or potentially dangerous animals. Violations of §§
90.087 through
90.090 are punishable by prosecution in criminal court as provided by G.S. §§
14-4 and 130A-25, unless a greater penalty is provided elsewhere, or by the
imposition of civil penalties, as prescribed in §
90.999, or both. Collection of civil penalties may be by civil action and/or by
the use of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s).
      (1)   Dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal found at large. If
a previously determined dangerous or potentially dangerous animal is found at
large and an APS officer is unsuccessful in catching the animal, the animal may
be tranquilized or humanely destroyed at the APS officer’s discretion with or
without prior notice to the owner. If an APS officer does tranquilize or
humanely destroy such an animal, he or she shall submit a written report of the
incident to the APS Sergeant within 72 hours of the incident and shall make a
good faith attempt to notify the owner of the incident.
         (a)   If a previously determined dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal is determined by an APS officer to pose immediate danger to the health
and safety of any person or animal, the dangerous animal or potentially
dangerous animal may be tranquilized or humanely destroyed at the APS officer’s
discretion, with or without prior notification to the owner. In the event the
APS officer does tranquilize or humanely destroy such animal, he or she shall
submit a written report of the incident to the APS Sergeant within 72 hours of
the incident and shall make a good faith attempt to notify the owner of the
incident.
         (b)   If a dangerous animal or potentially dangerous animal is caught
while at large or seen at large, it may be impounded and humanely destroyed.
APS may go upon private property to seize the animal. The APS Sergeant may
issue a notice of intent to destroy the animal to the owner. The owner may
appeal this intended action by filing a written request with the County Sheriff
within three days of receiving the written decision. The County Sheriff shall
schedule a hearing within ten days of receiving the request. The County Sheriff
shall hear the appeal and render a final written decision within three days
after the hearing and serve the same on the owner. The owner may appeal the
County Sheriff’s decision to the Superior Court by filing notice of appeal and
a petition for review within ten days of the final decision of the County
Sheriff. If the owner fails to seek a timely review of the APS Sergeant’s
notice of intent to destroy the animal or if he fails to file a timely appeal
of the County Sheriff’s decision, APS may humanely destroy the animal.
         (c)   If the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal has
failed to adhere to the written instructions provided by the County Sheriff,
the County Sheriff may issue an order of seizure with intent to destroy the
animal to the owner. The owner may appeal this intended action by filing a
written request with the APS Committee within three days of receiving the
written decision. The APS Committee shall schedule a hearing within ten days of
receiving the request.
         (d)   The APS Committee shall hear the appeal and render a final
written decision within three days after the hearing and serve the same on the
owner. The owner may appeal the APS Committee decision to the Superior Court by
filing notice of appeal and a petition for review within ten days of the final
decision of the APS Committee. If the owner fails to seek a timely review of
the County Sheriff’s order of seizure with intent to destroy the animal or if
he or she fails to file a timely appeal of the APS Committee’s decision, APS
may humanely destroy the animal.
      (2)   Failure to confine or restrain a dangerous or potentially dangerous
animal and failure to provide notice of transfer. Any owner who fails to
confine or restrain a dangerous animal or any owner who fails to provide the
written notices described in §
90.090 or violates any provisions of §§
90.087 through
90.090 shall be subject to the sanctions, fines, penalties and remedies
mentioned in division (B)(1) above, as well as being subject to the issuance of
a criminal warrant or summons. If convicted, the owner shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by the provisions of §
90.999(I).
(G.S. § 67-4.2(c))
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
TRAPPING AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.105 TRAPPING; COUNTY APS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Trapping.
      (1)   It shall not be a violation of this chapter for a person to
apprehend an animal on his or her property by trap or by hand; however, the
person must call APS within 12 hours of catching the animal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to go on the property of another and release a dog or
cat from a trap set by APS or from a trap set by the property owner(s). The APS
officer may initiate the issuance of a criminal summons or warrant for any
person violating this subchapter.
      (2)   At the request of a responsible adult, and if a trap is available
and deemed an appropriate measure by an APS officer, APS may place and set an
animal trap upon property located in the county that is owned or controlled by
the individual making the request for said trap. The person making the request
will be required to sign a written agreement authorizing APS personnel to enter
the property at all reasonable hours for the purpose of placing or setting the
trap, retrieving trapped animals from the trap, and removing trap from
property. The person requesting and/or signing for the trap will be responsible
for any damage to or loss of the trap. Animal traps will not be set on the
property of another and traps are not to be removed from the county.
   (B)   Damage, destruction and or theft of county APS property.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, destroy or steal
property belonging to APS. Violators will be cited and fined in accordance with
this chapter, to include the cost of replacement or repair of the lost,
damaged, destroyed or stolen property, or criminally charged and prosecuted
pursuant to the applicable North Carolina General Statutes.
      (2)   A citizen may petition the County Sheriff for a hearing to
determine the circumstances for the loss or damage of a trap. The County
Sheriff may determine the extent of non-intentional loss, destruction or damage
to traps. The County Sheriff may relieve the citizen of any financial
responsibility; however, the burden of proof will be upon the citizen to show
the loss was not caused by intentional loss, damage or destruction. The citizen
may appeal any decision of the County Sheriff to the APS Committee within ten
days for a hearing de novo. Any person assessed a monetary obligation regarding
the loss of a trap must provide the monetary restitution within 20 days to APS.
Any violator will be cited and fined in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.106 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Domestic dog, cat and ferret; includes other wildlife only in
case of rabies exposure to human(s) or unvaccinated domestic animal(s).
      FERAL CAT. A domestic cat which has adapted to survive in the wild, is
homeless and ownerless, and may have descended from stray cats and possibly
generations of abandoned house pets.
      IMPOUNDMENT. Possession or seizure of an animal by Stanly County APS for
placement in the Animal Shelter or any other appropriate facility.
   (B)   Impoundment. Not inconsistent with the preceding subchapters, any
healthy animal, which appears to be lost, strayed or unwanted or any dog, cat
or ferret which is found not wearing a current valid rabies vaccination tag,
may be confined to the Animal Shelter for a minimum period of 120 hours from
time of impoundment, unless otherwise specified by this chapter, for redemption
by the owner. Any animal not redeemed within 120 hours shall become the
property of the county and shall be disposed of pursuant to this chapter. The
County APS is authorized to obtain suitable board, maintenance and care from
any available source for any impounded animal for which the Animal Shelter is
not equipped to care. The owner of any animal impounded and cared for under
this provision of the chapter may redeem the animal upon payment of all costs
for maintenance, transportation and care plus regular redemption fees provided
in this section
   (C)   Feral cats. A feral cat shall be held for 120 hours for redemption by
a possible owner. If the feral cat is not redeemed within 120 hours, it may be
euthanized pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   A good faith effort shall be made to notify known owners of
impounded animals. If the owner is known, a written notice of impoundment shall
be served on the owner or affixed to the owner’s premises.
      (2)   The written notice shall describe the animal, state the date, time
and place the animal was picked up and inform the owner of the conditions
whereby the animal may be redeemed. Instructions on how to determine if an
animal has been impounded shall be posted at the Animal Shelter. The posting of
these instructions at the Animal Shelter shall constitute adequate notice to an
unknown owner.
   (E)   Boarding fees.
      (1)   Pursuant to conditions of this chapter, the APS Sergeant, with the
assistance of Animal Shelter personnel, shall charge to the owner the following
fees, which must be paid before an animal may be redeemed:
 
Service                                 Fees
Per day boarding fee for all other      $15.00
animals kept at the Animal Shelter
Per day boarding fee for all other      Actual amount charged by the caretaker
animals not kept at the Animal Shelter  or boarder of the animal
Per day boarding fee for cats           $15.00
Per day boarding fee for dogs           $15.00
Non-routine charge for transporting the Actual amount charged by the person
animal                                  providing the transportation
 
      (2)   The above fees are in addition to the Redemption fees set forth in
§
90.107 and are subject to adjustment or change by the County Board of
Commissioners at any time.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.107 REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS.
   An owner of an animal which has been impounded by APS may resume possession
of the animal, except as provided in other subchapters, upon compliance with
the following provisions.
   (A)   Proof and acknowledgment of ownership.
      (1)   Any person attempting to redeem an impounded animal shall present
proof sufficient to satisfy shelter personnel of ownership of the animal.
Evidence of ownership may include, but is not limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   License tag from another county;
         (b)   Rabies tag for the animal;
         (c)   Ownership documents, pedigree papers, bill of sale and any other
document identifying the person as owner of the animal;
         (d)   Photographs of the animal with the owner or other family
members; or
         (e)   Affidavit from two people in the community stating that the
animal has been seen in the presence or possession of the person attempting to
resume possession.
      (2)   Any person attempting to redeem an animal on behalf of an owner
shall present proof sufficient to satisfy shelter personnel that he or she is
acting as agent for the owner.
   (B)   Time of redemption. Any person attempting to redeem an animal must
make contact with the Animal Shelter within 120 hours of the animal being
impounded at the Animal Shelter. After making contact, that person shall be
given a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed three additional days, to
prove ownership and redeem the animal. Boarding fees begin 24 hours after
notification.
   (C)   Payment of redemption fees, boarding fees and civil penalties. The
owner of an impounded animal must pay all redemption fees, boarding fees and
civil penalties assessed against the animal before it can be released from the
shelter.
      (1)   Any person, after presenting sufficient proof of ownership, may
redeem the animal after paying the following fees and costs:
         (a)   First redemption by owner: $75, plus boarding fee, plus civil
penalty;
         (b)   Second redemption by owner: $100, plus boarding fee, plus civil
penalty;
         (c)   Third redemption by owner: $150, plus boarding fee, plus civil
penalty; and
         (d)   Fourth and subsequent redemption: Contingent upon court orders.
These amounts may be changed by the County Board of Commissioners at any time.
If the owner has failed to pay all amounts due and if the appropriate holding
period has passed, the animal shall then become the property of county and be
disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.108 DISPOSITION AND ADOPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Disposition of impounded animals. If an animal is not redeemed by its
owner within the allowed time for redemption, the animal shall become the
property of the county without any further notice to the owner. Once the animal
becomes the property of the county, the APS Sergeant and/or the APS Coordinator
is authorized to adopt the animal out or euthanize it. Any sick or diseased
animal, which appears to be lost, strayed or unwanted and is found not wearing
a rabies vaccination tag or any other form of identification may be euthanized
immediately by order of the APS Sergeant or the APS Coordinator. Any sick or
diseased animal, with proof of ownership, confined in the Animal Shelter, may
be euthanized by order of the APS Sergeant or the APS Coordinator. All animals
released for adoption shall be spayed or neutered and provided appropriate
preventive care by a veterinarian or the APS Coordinator as outlined in the APS
adoption agreement.
   (B)   Adoption fees. Fees for animals released for adoption from the Animal
Shelter shall be set by the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Bonafide rescue groups. Adoptable animals may be transferred at no
charge to bonafide nonprofit animal rescue groups that provide their own
veterinarian care services in compliance with this chapter. Said rescue groups
must provide documentation of the aforesaid to APS.
   (D)   Recovery of adopted animal. If the adopting party violates the terms
of the adoption agreement, APS is authorized to recover, reclaim or repossess
an animal and dispose of the animal in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   APS is authorized to assess civil penalties for violations of this
chapter. APS may attempt to collect any assessed civil penalty that is not paid
within 20 days of its issuance via the filing of a civil action and/or the use
of a collection agency to the extent permitted by applicable law(s). Civil
penalties shall be assessed on a per animal, per occurrence basis.
Violation Civil Penalty
Violation                                Civil Penalty
Animal public nuisance                   $50
1st time                                 $75
2nd time                                 $100
3rd time                                 Court proceedings
4 or more times
Animals running at large                 $50
1st time                                 $75
2nd time                                 $100
3rd time                                 Court proceedings
4 or more times
Damage or neglect to cat trap            $150
Damage or neglect to dog trap            $250
Dangerous animal violations              $500
Failure to confine dog/cat in estrus     $75
Failure to give notice of injuring       $100
animal
Failure to give notice of injured animal $100
on property
Failure to notify, or provide            $100
information of a bite
Failure to provide county dog tag        $50
Failure to vaccinate                     $100
Failure to wear rabies tag               $50
Interference with officer                $500
Interference with trap or cage           $100
Manner of keeping and treating animals   $100
Unprovoked dog bite while running at     $500, plus at-large citation
large
Unspecified violations of the ordinance  $50 (per violation)
Violation of inherently dangerous exotic $500, plus cost of seizure, if
animal article                           applicable
 
   (B)   If convicted of the provisions of §
90.004, the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up
to $500 or imprisonment for not more than six months.
   (C)   Any owner, if convicted in relation to §
90.023(B)(3), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500 or imprisoned for not more than six months.
   (D)   As described in §
90.039(E), any person who violates §
90.037(K) shall be subject to the issuance of a criminal warrant or summons
and, if convicted, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 or imprisoned for not more than six months. Any person who fails or
refuses to close down an exhibit, function or activity after being instructed
to do so by APS shall be subject to the issuance of a criminal warrant or
summons and, if convicted, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500 or imprisoned for not more than six months.
   (E)   In relation to §
90.056(A)(2), any person convicted under G.S. § 67-12 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than six months.
   (F)   Any person convicted under §
90.056(A)(3) and G.S. § 67-2 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than six months.
   (G)   In relation to §
90.056(B)(5), any person found guilty of §
90.055 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than six months.
   (H)   Any person who fails or refuses to surrender a stray animal to APS
after demand as described in §
90.092(A)(2), if convicted, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than six months.
   (I)   If convicted of violation of §
90.092, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
(G.S. § 67-4.2(c))
   (J)   If convicted of the provisions of §
90.105(A), the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
up to $500 or imprisonment for not more than six months.
(Ord. passed 11-2-2020)
CHAPTER 91: PARADES AND THE LIKE
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Permits requisite to starting, forming or participating in a parade
   
91.03   Submission of permit application
   
91.04   Information required on permit application
   
91.05   Issuance of permits predicated on enumerated findings
   
91.06   Time limitation for action on permit application; notice of disapproval
to be mailed within stated time
   
91.07   Appeal from denial of permit to Board of Commissioners within certain
time; action by Board within stated time
   
91.08   Contents of parade permit
   
91.09   Mayor, Fire Chief, Town Clerk to receive copies of permits
   
91.10   Permittee to comply with permit conditions, laws and the like; permit
to be carried by Parade Chairperson or leader
   
91.11   Obstructing or driving through parade; parking along parade route
   
91.12   Revocation of permits not meeting required standards for issuance
   
91.13   Provisions inapplicable to designated processions and groups
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the town.
   COMMISSIONER. A member of the Board of Commissioners of the town.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibit, pageant or procession of
any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park or other place in
the town.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.02 PERMITS REQUISITE TO STARTING, FORMING OR PARTICIPATING IN A PARADE.
   No person shall engage in, participate in, form or start any parade unless a
parade permit shall have been obtained therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SUBMISSION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application
with the Chief of Police on forms provided by the officer.
   (B)   An application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than ten
days nor more than 15 days before the time on which it is proposed to conduct
the parade.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.04 INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and the authorized and responsible heads of the organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the Parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who and animals and vehicles
which will constitute the parade, the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade;
      (9)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at the
assembly areas;
      (10)   The interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
      (11)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file
with the Chief of Police a communication in writing from the person proposing
to hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or
her behalf;
      (12)   The purpose and reason for the parade; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have
the authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than
ten days before the date the parade is proposed to be conducted.
   (C)   There shall be filed at the time of filing the application for a
parade permit a fee as set in the Fee Schedule adopted with the Annual Budget
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS PREDICATED ON ENUMERATED FINDINGS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued except after the approval of the
application.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit as provided hereunder when,
from a consideration of the application and from other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she and the Mayor or one of the Commissioners find
that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of the town to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the town;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
the areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles to the assembly
areas of the parade will not unduly interfere with the proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury
to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a disturbance;
      (7)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delay en route; and
      (8)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods or events, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.06 TIME LIMITATION FOR ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION; NOTICE OF DISAPPROVAL
TO BE MAILED WITHIN STATED TIME.
   (A)   Action on an application for a parade permit shall be taken within two
days after the filing thereof. If the application is disapproved, notice of the
disapproval shall be mailed by the Town Clerk to the applicant within two days
after the application was filed.
   (B)   The notice shall state the reason for the denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.07 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF PERMIT TO BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS WITHIN CERTAIN
TIME; ACTION BY BOARD WITHIN STATED TIME.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of the
parade permit to the Board of Commissioners. The appeal shall be taken within
two days after notice.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall act upon the appeal within two days
after its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.08 CONTENTS OF PARADE PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum and maximum speeds;
   (C)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
   (D)   The portion of streets to be traversed that may be occupied by the
parade;
   (E)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (F)   Other information as the Chief of Police and Mayor or a Commissioner
shall find necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.09 MAYOR, FIRE CHIEF, TOWN CLERK TO RECEIVE COPIES OF PERMITS.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall
send a copy thereof to:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The Fire Chief; and
   (C)   The Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.10 PERMITTEE TO COMPLY WITH PERMIT CONDITIONS, LAWS AND THE LIKE; PERMIT
TO BE CARRIED BY PARADE CHAIRPERSON OR LEADER.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions.
   (B)   The Parade Chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit upon his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.11 OBSTRUCTING OR DRIVING THROUGH PARADE; PARKING ALONG PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede, or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating in the parade.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle or street bus shall drive between vehicles or
persons comprising a parade when the vehicles are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or
part thereof comprising a route of a parade. The Chief of Police shall post
signs to that effect, and it shall be unlawful for a person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
      (2)   No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 REVOCATION OF PERMITS NOT MEETING REQUIRED STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Chief of Police, the Mayor or a Commissioner shall have the authority to
revoke a parade permit issued hereunder upon application of the standards for
issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 91.12) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.13 PROVISIONS INAPPLICABLE TO DESIGNATED PROCESSIONS AND GROUPS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from classes or participating in educational
activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction and
supervision of the proper school authority; or
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its function.
(Prior Code, § 91.13) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is subject to the civil
penalty in §
10.99 and/or may be found guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine
of $50. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to be continued shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. passed 9-6-1966)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Hours of parks, playgrounds and recreation centers
   
92.02   Recreation plan
   
92.03   District park rules
§ 92.01 HOURS OF PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION CENTERS.
   When the Board of Commissioners has established the hours of the day the
town’s public parks, playgrounds and recreation centers shall be opened and
closed to the public use and shall have caused the hours of opening and closing
to be posted in a conspicuous place at the respective parks, playgrounds and
recreation centers, it shall be unlawful for anyone to go upon the premises of
the parks, playgrounds and recreation centers during the time when they are
closed to the public use.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 RECREATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town does support and adopt the County Comprehensive Recreation
Master Plan as produced by LS3P Associates Ltd. in cooperation with the County
Recreation Committee.
   (B)   The Clerk is directed to send a copy of the resolution codified in
this section to the County Manager and to the Chair of the County Recreation
Committee (Albemarle Parks and Recreation Department).
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Res. passed 7-6-1999)
§ 92.03 DISTRICT PARK RULES.
   (A)   Park rules in general.
      (1)   The town is not responsible for accidents or injuries.
      (2)   No motorized vehicles beyond a parking lot.
      (3)   No alcohol, drugs, tobacco in any form or weapons.
      (4)   All pets must be on leash.
      (5)   All pet excrement must be picked up.
      (6)   No pets allowed in ball field or playground area.
      (7)   No golf balls may be hit in the park.
      (8)   No hunting or fishing.
      (9)   No signs, advertisements, sales of merchandise or solicitations
allowed in park except by special permit.
      (10)   No amplified sound, music, noise or voice permitted except by
permit.
      (11)   No parking except in designated areas.
      (12)   All children must be supervised by an adult.
      (13)   No profanity or lewd behavior allowed.
      (14)   No swimming, wading or boating in pond.
      (15)   No walking on ice when pond frozen.
      (16)   No graffiti or defacing of property.
      (17)   No open flame, no fireworks, no gambling.
      (18)   No disorderly conduct or threatening language.
      (19)   No amusement rides, tents or inflatable apparatus without a
permit.
      (20)   All garbage, litter and food stuffs must be collected and disposed
of prior to departure from the park.
      (21)   No airplane, flying machine, balloon, parachute or other apparatus
of aviation is allowed in the park without special permit. This includes radio-
controlled airplanes, helicopters and rockets.
      (22)   No activity allowed that may be hazardous to persons or property.
      (23)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with any park or town employee
in the performance of their duties. Any violation of park rules or regulations
will result in expulsion from the park and possible elimination from
participation in future park events.
   (B)   Playground (tot lot) specific rules.
      (1)   All children using playground equipment must be supervised by an
adult.
      (2)   The town is not responsible for accidents or injuries.
   (C)   Picnic shelter specific rules.
      (1)   Picnic shelters may be rented and reserved on a daily basis for a
fee and on a first come, first served basis. A cash deposit is required before
rental.
      (2)   Users of picnic shelters are responsible for the clean-up of the
area.
      (3)   Nails and staples are prohibited from use on any structure.
      (4)   The town is not responsible for accidents or injuries.
   (D)   Barbequing.
      (1)   No gas grills allowed in the park; charcoal grills are acceptable.
      (2)   Used charcoal must be deposited in the provided and marked
receptacle.
   (E)   Concessions.
      (1)   The concession stand will be contracted out for either a flat rate
or a percentage of the profits.
      (2)   No bicycles, skates, skateboards or scooters allowed in the
concession area.
   (F)   Horseshoe pits. The cover to the horseshoe pit stake must be replaced
when finished.
   (G)   Gazebo.
      (1)   No sitting or standing on railing.
      (2)   No bicycles, skates, skateboards or scooters allowed on pier
walkway or gazebo.
   (H)   Ball field fees and rules.
      (1)   No metal cleats allowed.
      (2)   No soft toss against fencing allowed.
      (3)   No loaded or altered bats allowed.
      (4)   No profanity or threatening language.
      (5)   No tobacco use in field area.
      (6)   No spectators allowed on ball field.
      (7)   No bicycles, skates, skateboards or scooters allowed in the ball
field area.
      (8)   The town is not responsible for accidents or injuries.
      (9)   The USSSA entry fee shall be set in the Fee Schedule adopted with
the Annual Budget Ordinance, the amount in addition to a sanction fee in cash
or money order up front.
      (10)   Park hours of operation; seven days a week; dawn to dusk, except
for permitted activities.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 2011-12.05, passed 11-7-2011)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Placing garbage, refuse and rubbish in public place
Property Numbering System
   
93.15   Numbering map
   
93.16   Numbering system
   
93.17   Owners to display numbers
   
93.18   Numbers for future buildings
   
93.19   Unlawful to deface number
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PLACING GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RUBBISH IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place garbage, refuse and rubbish in
any street, alley or other publicly owned or controlled place except under
express approval granted by the town’s Maintenance Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 93.15 NUMBERING MAP.
   (A)   The property numbering map entitled “Property Numbering Map, dated
January 4, 1993, Town of Oakboro, N.C.,” is hereby adopted as the official
property numbering map of the town, and all property numbers assigned shall be
assigned in accordance with the numbering map and no other property numbers
shall be used or displayed in the town, except numbers assigned in accordance
with the official numbering map.
   (B)   The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   On the property numbering map, North and South Main Street are
hereby designated as the north-south axis and First Street and First Street
extended are hereby designated as the east-west axis, and all avenues, streets
and roads running generally north and south shall be numbered from the east-
west axis consecutively to the corporate limits of the extremity of the avenue,
street or road. Avenues, streets or roads running generally east and west shall
be numbered from the north-south axis in the same manner.
      (2)   Wherever possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 25 feet of ground area,
where practical, whether improved property or vacant property on every street,
public or private, within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   (1)   Odd numbers will be assigned to the west side of North Main, the
east side of South Main, the north side of First Street and the south side of
First Street extended.
      (2)   Even numbers will be assigned to the east side of North Main, the
west side of South Main, the south side of First Street and the north side of
First Street extended.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.17 OWNERS TO DISPLAY NUMBERS.
   (A)   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before March 1,
1993, display the number assigned near the front entrance, preferably in a
lighted area, of the dwelling or place of business so that the number is
visible from the street.
   (B)   The number must also be displayed on the mailbox if mail is received
at the dwelling or business, or the number at the front entrance cannot be seen
from the street. Each number shall be a minimum of four inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18 NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residence and business buildings erected after adoption of this
subchapter shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property numbering
map and shall display the number as provided in §
93.17.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any number
placed on any property in accordance with this subchapter, except for repair or
replacement of the number.
(Prior Code, § 93.19) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
Noxious Grass/Weeds, Stagnant Water and the Like
   
94.01   Nuisances enumerated
   
94.02   Investigation; notice to abate
   
94.03   Abatement by the town; recovery of costs
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
94.15   Administration
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.18   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
94.19   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
94.20   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicles; pre-towing notice
requirements
   
94.21   Exception to prior notice requirement
   
94.22   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
94.23   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
94.24   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.25   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
94.26   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
94.27   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
94.28   Exceptions
   
94.29   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
NOXIOUS GRASS/WEEDS, STAGNANT WATER AND THE LIKE
§ 94.01 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the town is declared to be dangerous, or prejudicial to
the public health or safety, or detrimental to the economic well-being of the
community, and therefore constitutes a public nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to include, but not
to be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The growth of weeds or grass to a height of 15 inches;
      (2)   The growth of vines (such as kudzu, honeysuckle or similar vines)
beyond the banks of a steep incline, in trees or upon other vegetation, or upon
buildings; or
      (3)   The growth of poisonous plants (poison ivy, poison oak or related
vegetation).
   (B)   Any excessive accumulation of animal or vegetable matter. Animal and/
or vegetable matter shall be disposed of in a manner suitable for collection by
the operator of the waste and rubbish collection company employed by town and
shall not be allowed to collect in yards, porches and so forth, except as
follows:
      (1)   Animal and/or vegetable matter may be deposited in a compost pile
or treated as compost, provided same is free of rodents and vermin. If rodents
or vermin are present, the compost pile shall be constructed in a manner as to
be rodent free or same shall be removed; and
      (2)   Firewood and/or other useable wood shall be stored in a manner to
discourage the harborage of rodents, vermin and/or wood destroying insects.
   (C)   Any excessive accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk. Debris and
discarded items shall not be allowed to accumulate within the yard or
unenclosed porches. Appliances, upholstered furniture and other items not
designed as “patio” or “lawn furniture” shall not be kept on unenclosed porches
visible from a public street or in yard areas; and
   (D)   The accumulation of stagnant water or conditions which promote the
breeding of mosquitoes.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 INVESTIGATION; NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Town Enforcement Officer or his or her duly appointed agent, upon
notice from any person, or upon their own observation, of the existence of any
of the conditions described in §
94.01, shall cause to be made by the appropriate town official an investigation
as may be necessary to determine whether, in fact, the conditions exist as to
constitute a public nuisance as declared in that section.
   (B)   Upon a determination that the conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Enforcement Officer or his or her duly appointed agent
shall notify, in writing, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of the
written notice. Upon consultation with the offending party, the public official
shall be allowed to use his or her discretion and allow a reasonable extension
of the time to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   After being served a second nuisance warning given for the
uncontrolled growth of vegetation, the property owner shall keep the growth on
that lot under control for the duration of the growing season without any
further warning from the town.
      (2)   If the owner shall fail to keep the growth under control for the
remainder of the growing season, the town may mow same or seek other remedies
without further warning. Wooded lots, or lots where the terrain does not allow
use of necessary equipment, shall be exempted from abatement except on lots
where equipment may maneuver around trees, bushes and other natural
obstructions.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 ABATEMENT BY THE TOWN; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance
pursuant to this subchapter, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order,
the Town Enforcement Officer or his or her duly appointed agent shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
or a private contractor obtained by the town go upon the premises and remove or
otherwise abate the nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee
designated by the Town Enforcement Officer.
      (2)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may,
within the time allowed by this subchapter, request the town, in writing, to
remove the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the
request. The town may, at its option, accept the responsibility and enter into
a written agreement with the property owner to abate the nuisance and agree to
payment arrangements.
   (B)   (1)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Finance Director to mail a statement
of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the premises, with
instruction that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
      (2)   The actual cost incurred, when the owner does not abate the
nuisance, shall be established by the Board of Commissioners. The costs may
include an administrative expense.
   (C)   If charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, the charges
shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance existed
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 94.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Town Enforcement Officer shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The
Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and
highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (B)   The Town Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for administering
the removal and disposition of “abandoned,” “nuisance” or “junked motor
vehicles” located on private property. The town may, on an annual basis,
contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store
and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles
in compliance with this subchapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this
subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of
officers of the Town Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing other
laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 94.15) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2,
this term means a motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
       (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
       (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
       (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Enforcement Officer, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this subchapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $100 or is more
than five years old and worth less than $500 as provided by the municipality in
an ordinance adopted under this section; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 94.16) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996; Res. 19-, passed - -2019)
§ 94.17 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein. Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the
town may determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle
removed.
(Prior Code, § 94.17) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle. Upon
investigation, the Town Enforcement Officer may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined herein,
and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 94.18) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. A single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to comply with
the locational requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Town Enforcement Officer may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle,
as defined in this subchapter, after finding in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner.
      (1)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of
the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
      (2)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle is as
follows.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the town’s Zoning Ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering. The town’s Enforcement Officer has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives stated in the preamble of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A garage
or building structure means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and Building Code
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 94.19) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.20 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING NOTICE
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as set forth in §
94.21, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first-class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed and the date mailed. If the names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed).
      (2)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and further proceeding to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21 EXCEPTION TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The finding shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records.
   (C)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determined that
immediate removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform those services
for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the notice
to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.23 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Judge to receive the hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 94.23) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.24 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.24) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1.
(Prior Code, § 94.25) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.26 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Enforcement Officer. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal of the storage, or sale thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.26) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.27 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.27) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.28 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard, as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Prior Code, § 94.28) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996)
§ 94.29 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 94.29) (Ord. passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: NOISE AND SOUND LEVELS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Noise disturbance unlawful
   
95.03   Allowance of noise disturbance; responsibility for abatement
   
95.04   Exemptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL AREA. The use of lands, buildings or structures, other than a
home occupation, the intent or result of which activity is the production of
income from the buying and selling of goods and/or services, exclusive of
rental of residential buildings and/or dwelling units. The COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
encompasses those areas in the town where commercial development exists and is
designed to preserve the character of the community while providing a readily
accessible area for the continuation and expansion of commercial services.
   dB(A). A weighted sound level measured in decibels by a general purpose,
properly calibrated, sound level meter complying with the provisions of the
American National Standard Institute.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit for measuring the volume of a sound equal to 20 times
the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured
to the reference pressure.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a family but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal
cabins, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
   EMERGENCY MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle belonging to a Fire Department or
partnership, an ambulance or a motor vehicle belonging to a federal, state,
county or municipal law enforcement agency, provided the vehicle is being used
as an emergency vehicle by one authorized to use the vehicle for that purpose.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. The use of lands, relating to, concerning or arising from
the assembling, fabrication, finishing, manufacturing, packaging or processing
of goods or mineral extraction, utilities, highways and railroad access.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being heard. It is not necessary to distinguish
words or melodies. A PLAINLY AUDIBLE sound may consist of bass alone.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The named property owner as indicated by the records of the
County Register of Deeds or County Appraiser’s Office.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any land use which includes a dwelling unit.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION OR PRODUCING DEVICE OR SIMILAR EQUIPMENT. A radio, radio
receiving set, television, phonograph, stereo, tape player, cassette player,
compact disc player, “boom box,” loudspeaker, drum, juke box, nickelodeon,
musical instrument, sound amplifier or other device which produces, reproduces
or amplifies sound.
   TENANT. Any person who has interest in real property either by oral or
written lease or covenant.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 95.02 NOISE DISTURBANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to make or cause to be made a noise disturbance within
the town. A noise disturbance shall include any or all of the following:
   (A)   A sound, registered on a decibel meter from any source not exempted or
otherwise regulated by this chapter, and which, when measured anywhere off of
the property of the sound source within 25 feet of nearest residence, is in
excess of the dB(A) established for the time period and zones listed below:
 
Area        7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Commercial  75 dB(A)                70 dB(A)
Industrial  75 dB(A)                70 dB(A)
Residential 65 dB(A)                60 dB(A)
 
   (B)   The owning, keeping or harboring of any animal that continuously,
repeatedly or persistently for 30 minutes or more, without provocation by the
complainant, creates a sound which is plainly audible across any property
boundary line;
   (C)   A sound resulting from the erecting, constructing, excavating,
demolishing, altering or repairing of any structure, or operating, or
permitting the operation of any tools or equipment used in construction,
drilling or demolition, work in a manner so as to cause a sound plainly audible
across any property boundary line between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., this activity shall not be
subject to the time, area and dB(A) limits set forth in division (A) above;
   (D)   The repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing of any motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to cause a sound plainly audible
across any property boundary line between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., this activity shall not be
subject to the time, area and dB(A) limits set forth in division (A) above;
   (E)   The operating or occupancy of a vehicle, which is moving or
stationary, standing or parked, whether persons are seated in the vehicle or
not, from which any sound amplification or producing device or similar
equipment is creating a sound that is plainly audible at least 50 feet from the
source of the sound. A violation of this division (E) shall be a traffic
offense;
   (F)   The operation of any power tool, garden tool, lawnmower, snow blower
or other similar equipment or device in residential areas in such a manner as
to cause a sound plainly audible across any property boundary line between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., this activity shall not be subject to the time, area and dB(A) limits set
forth in division (A) above; and/or
   (G)   (1)   The operating, playing, permitting or causing to be operated or
played any sound amplification or producing device or similar equipment in a
manner as to cause a sound plainly audible across any property boundary line
except by permit in commercial and industrial districts.
      (2)   In residential districts between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m., this activity shall not be subject to the time, area and dB(A) limits set
forth in division (A) above, and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
by permit only.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 2011-12.03, passed 10-3-2011)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 ALLOWANCE OF NOISE DISTURBANCE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any property owner or tenant, or other person with
control, occupancy or possession of residential property, to allow or permit a
person or group of persons to create a noise disturbance, as defined in this
chapter, on the property.
   (B)   The property owner, tenant or other person with control, occupancy or
possession of property shall be responsible for abatement of noise disturbances
occurring on that property, and failure to do so shall be a violation of this
section.
   (C)   For new zoning changes to commercial/industrial, the noise ordinances
apply only to existing residences at the time of rezoning.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall not be considered to be noise disturbances for the
purpose of this chapter:
   (A)   Sound from law enforcement motor vehicles and other emergency motor
vehicles, including, but not limited to, snow-clearing equipment;
   (B)   Sound from vehicles or equipment belonging to the town, state, county,
federal government, school or other governmental agencies or utilities engaged
in preparing for or remedying a potentially hazardous situation; and
   (C)   Sound that a person is making or causing to be made when the person
has received and maintains a valid license or permit which specifically allows
the sound from any department.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon a first conviction for a violation of this chapter, the court
shall assess a fine of no less than $50. Upon a second violation, the court
shall assess a fine of no less than $150. Upon a third or subsequent
conviction, the court shall assess a fine of no less than $250. No prior
conviction shall be considered in determining the penalty to be assessed if 24
months have elapsed between the date of the violation and the date of the
conviction next immediately preceding the sentencing date.
   (B)   No person shall be eligible for a parole, suspension or reduction of
any part of the fine except that portion of any fine or combination of fines
that exceeds $200 assessed from the same set of operative facts may be
suspended for 12 months on the condition the violator have no further
violations of the noise ordinance during that period. In addition to any fine
imposed, the court may impose a jail term of up to six months.
   (C)   Each occurrence of violation, or in the case of a continuous
violation, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is subject to the
civil penalty in §
10.99. Such persons may also be subject to a criminal penalty.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PAWNBROKERS
      
111.   MINORITY BUSINESSES; CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
110.01   License and bond required
   
110.02   Records
   
110.03   Inspection of stock
   
110.04   Regulations concerning minors
   
110.05   Loans on separate parts of articles
   
110.06   Article to be kept 60 days
   
110.07   Compliance with chapter
§ 110.01 LICENSE AND BOND REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do business as a pawnbroker as
defined in G.S. § 91A-3(2) in the town without first having obtained a license
therefor; and every like person, before license is granted to carry on the
business, shall, in addition to the license tax annually imposed by Chapter
110, be required to enter into bond to the town in the sum of $50,000,
conditioned for the due observance of the provisions of this chapter at any
time during the continuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 RECORDS.
   (A)   All pawnbrokers doing business in the town shall keep and preserve a
daily record on forms approved by the Chief of Police, at their several places
of business, fairly and legibly written in English, showing a full, detailed
and complete list of every article taken in pawn by them or bought by them and
giving fully description of the same, including the material, maker, engraved
marked, manner, brand, monogram and letters of every kind on the article,
showing also from whom the articles are received and to whom sold or disposed
of. The records shall, at all times during business hours and all other
reasonable times, be open for the examination and inspection of the Chief of
Police, or any police officer or other lawful officer.
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall daily, by 11:00 a.m., furnish to the Chief of
Police, in plain and legible handwriting, a true and correct copy of the record
herein required to be kept, covering his or her transactions for the preceding
48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.03 INSPECTION OF STOCK.
   Every pawnbroker shall have his or her goods so arranged in stock as to
enable any lawful officer, as prescribed in §
110.02, to readily inspect the same.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 110.04 REGULATIONS CONCERNING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to, directly or indirectly,
knowingly buy or receive in pawn any article from any minor, without the
written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor. The written consent
shall be carefully preserved by the pawnbroker as evidence of his or her right
to buy or receive in pawn the article from the minor. The written consent shall
be subject to inspection by the police or other lawful officers of the town.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 LOANS ON SEPARATE PARTS OF ARTICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to make any loans on the separate or
divided parts of any article.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 ARTICLE TO BE KEPT 60 DAYS.
   No articles received in pawn or bought by a pawnbroker, within the town,
shall be disposed of or removed from his or her place of business within 60
days from the time the same was received.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   Any licensed pawnbroker or person in control of any pawnshop who shall
violate or refuse to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, in addition thereto, the license issued therefor shall be
declared forfeited by the Town Board or Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: MINORITY BUSINESSES; CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Section
   
111.01   General provisions
§ 111.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town shall have a verifiable goal of 3% for participation by
minority businesses in building construction contracts awarded pursuant to G.S.
§ 143-128.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall compile a list of minority businesses within the
bidding area, using information obtained from the State Department of Economic
and Community Development, Minority Business Development Agency or from other
institutions or agencies providing the information.
      (1)   This list shall be updated on an annual basis and shall be open for
inspection and shall be available so that minority businesses will have the
opportunity to add their names to the list.
      (2)   Copies of this section shall be transmitted to the businesses on
the list as soon as practicable along with the name of the official, employee
or agent who shall serve as the contact person for minority businesses and be
responsible for answering project related questions posed by minority
businesses.
   (C)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or the single-prime contract systems, notice of the contract
shall be transmitted to minority businesses on the above list.
   (D)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single-prime contract systems, documents related to the
contract shall be available for inspection at a convenient and accessible
location of which minority businesses shall receive notice.
   (E)   (1)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single-prime contract systems, the Town Clerk or his or her
designees shall hold a pre-bid conference to orient contractors and
subcontractors to the policy expressed in this section as well as bid
procedures and regulations.
      (2)   Minority businesses on the list obtained and maintained as provided
herein shall be notified of and invited to these pre-bid conferences.
   (F)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single-prime contract system, published notice of the contract
shall include a summary of this section.
   (G)   For any building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification contract system, the contact person designated herein shall
maintain records with respect to:
      (1)   Contractors or subcontractors notified of the project and the
number of these contractors and subcontractors that are minority businesses as
defined in G.S. § 143-128 appearing on the list of minority businesses
maintained pursuant to division (B) above;
      (2)   Contractors or subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to
notice of the project and the number of these that are on the maintained list
of minority businesses;
      (3)   Contractors or subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the
project and the number and identity of those that are on the list of minority
businesses; and
      (4)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this section.
   (H)   For any building contract put out for bids under the single-prime
contract system, the single-prime contractor shall:
      (1)   Notify those minority businesses appearing on the list of minority
businesses maintained pursuant to division (B) above of the portion of the
project which will be subcontracted by the single contractor and solicit bids
from those minority businesses; and
      (2)   Submit with his or her bids records with respect to:
         (a)   Subcontractors notified of the project and of those elements of
the project for which subcontracts will be let and the number of these
subcontractors that are minority businesses as defined in G.S. § 143-128
appearing on the list of minority business maintained pursuant to division (B)
above;
         (b)   Subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to notice of the
project and the number of these that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses;
         (c)   Subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the project and the
number and identity of those that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses; and
         (d)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this section.
   (I)   These policies shall be a part of the request for proposals for any
contract, and noncompliance by any single-prime bidder shall be grounds for
declaring the bid non-responsive.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Res. passed 9-23-1999)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Statutory authorization
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Exemptions
   
112.05   License application procedures
   
112.06   Investigation and determination
   
112.07   Fees
   
112.08   Exhibiting and transfer of license
   
112.09   Health regulations
   
112.10   General regulations
   
112.11   Revocation of license
   
112.12   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The state legislature has in G.S. § 160A-178 authorized the regulation
and licensing of the business activities of itinerant vendors and peddlers in
order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizens.
   (B)   Itinerant vendors are regulated by he Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO) sunder “Itinerant Merchants,” in Article 5, Div. 5. A temporary use
permit is required for itinerant vendors/merchants in UDO § 33.19 (see Chapter
155).
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLES OF MERCHANDISING. Anything of value offered for sale to the public
by any person.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent,
consignee or employee, whether a resident of the town or not, who engages in a
business of selling and delivering goods, wares, food or merchandise of any
kind or description and who may conduct business from a vehicle or other
conveyance upon privately or publicly owned property, but not on a public
street, sidewalk, alley, public right-of-way or any required buffer zone. A
person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be relieved from complying
with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily
with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such
temporary business in connection with, of or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
   PEDDLER. Any person engaged in the act of peddling articles of merchandise.
   PEDDLING. The sale or offering for sale from house to house by any persons
from a cart, truck, automobile or other vehicle operated over and upon the
streets and highways any articles of merchandise and shall include, without
limitation, fresh fruits and vegetables, farm products, household medicines,
remedies and other articles.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to peddle any articles of merchandise
or engage in business within the town until the person shall have first secured
a license to peddle the same and the peddler shall keep and produce and exhibit
the license to any official of the town upon demand.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to the
following: Non-profit organizations with local affiliations.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.05 LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to secure a peddler license shall
make an application to the town, on forms to be provided by the town. Such
application shall provide: The name(s) and permanent address of the applicant
(s); name and address of the principal operator or owner of the business, if
different from the applicant; photo identification of the owner and all
employees that will operate the business within town limits; driver’s license
(s) of all persons who will operate vehicles within town limits as a peddler or
itinerant vendor; vehicle license numbers of all vehicles from which the
applicant proposes to conduct business; description of the general type of
goods, wares, merchandise or food proposed to be sold by the applicant; federal
tax identification number of the business; state sales tax number and business
license issued by the state, unless the state license is not required by the
state statutes; and the location where the applicant proposes to engage in
business.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.06 INVESTIGATION AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a peddler license, the Town
Administrator shall initiate an investigation of such person or persons and
their business as is deemed necessary for the protection of the public good.
The Town Administrator may consult with the Town Finance Director, the Town
Police Department and any other parties necessary to determine compliance with
the standards and requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a peddler license shall be denied by the Town
Administrator upon written findings that the applicant’s business
responsibility is unsatisfactory or that the proposed business activity will
violate applicable laws, rules or regulations.
      (2)   Any license issued under this chapter shall contain the number on
the license, the date same was issued, the nature of the business authorized to
be carried on, the amount of license fees paid, the expiration date of said
license, the place(s) (if any) where the business may be carried on under such
license and the name or names of the person or persons to carry on the same.
The town shall maintain a record of all licenses issued under this chapter and
shall promptly provide the State Department of Revenue a copy of any license
issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.07 FEES.
   (A)   An initial application for a peddler license is a fee of $25 for a
peddler traveling by vehicle and $10 for peddlers traveling by foot to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (B)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
90 days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed
therein.
   (C)   Peddlers’ licenses shall be limited to 90 consecutive days during a
one calendar year period following issuance of a peddler license.
   (D)   (1)   Licensed peddlers may apply for a variance to the 90-day period
if working under a town issued special event permit.
      (2)   Peddlers must be authorized in writing by the special event permit
holder and peddler privilege license must be current and up to date.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.08 EXHIBITING AND TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously at
the place of business herein or vehicle(s) used by the licensee.
   (B)   Any license issued under this chapter shall not be transferred to any
other person, firm, corporation or location.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   All peddlers who sell food shall comply with all applicable laws, rules and
regulations regarding food handling and all vehicles used for the sale of food
shall comply with all laws, rules and regulations as established by the County
Health Department.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.10 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   All peddlers licensed under this chapter shall comply with the following
regulations.
   (A)   No peddler shall locate his or her vehicle, other conveyance,
temporary stand or merchandise within 20 feet of any public right-of-way or
within 20 feet of the intersection of any public right-of-way and private
driveway.
   (B)   All signage shall be limited to a maximum of five square feet and no
sign shall be permitted other than that which is contained on the vehicle.
   (C)   No vehicle or other conveyance shall be located closer than 20 feet
from any building or structure on the licensed property or adjoining property.
   (D)   No vehicle or other conveyance, shall be located closer than 50 feet
from any flammable combustible liquid or gas storage and dispensing structures.
   (E)   All vehicles or other conveyances, or shall be equipped with a 2A 40BC
fire extinguisher.
   (F)   No peddler shall sell or vend from his or her vehicle or conveyance:
      (1)   Within 400 feet of any public or private school grounds during the
hours of regular school session, classes or school related events in said
public or private school, except when authorized by the school;
      (2)   Within 300 feet of the entrance to any business establishment open
for business offering as a main featured item or items similar products for
sale;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any public park of the town where any town
authorized concession stand is located during times other than during the
course of a public celebration, except as approved by the Parks and Recreation
Department of the town or county; or
      (5)   Within 300 feet of any public park of the town or county where any
town or county authorized concession stand is located during the course of a
public celebration when non-profit organizations are permitted to engage in the
sale of merchandise and food in such park.
   (G)   No peddler shall conduct business so as to violate the traffic and
sidewalk ordinances of the town as in effect or hereafter amended.
   (H)   No peddler shall obstruct or cause to be obstructed the passage of any
sidewalk, street, avenue, alley or any public place, by causing people to
congregate at or near the place where goods, wares, food or merchandise of any
kind is being sold or offered for sale.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any peddler license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked, in
writing, by the Town Administrator for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of products;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction by the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor of moral
turpitude; and
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.12 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application for a license or by the
revocation of a license as provided for in this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Town Council. Such appeal shall be initiated by filing with the
Town Clerk within 14 calendar days after the notice of decision has been
mailed, by certified mail, to the applicant’s or licensee’s last known address,
a written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council
shall set the time and place for the hearing on such appeal and notice of such
hearing shall be provided by certified mail to the appellant at least five days
prior to the date affixed for such hearing.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any efforts to circumvent this chapter, or any section herein, shall be in
itself a violation of said chapter. Violators will be charged with a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $50, or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each day that a person is in violation of
this section constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-11.01, passed 7-6-2010)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
130.01   Police line regulation
§ 130.01 POLICE LINE REGULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cross a duly established and marked
police line, within the corporate limits of the town, without expressed
permission from a law enforcement officer at that location.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 92-002, passed 6-30-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Alcohol consumption
   
131.02   Public decency generally
   
131.03   Loitering
   
131.04   Use of tobacco in public places
Firearms
   
131.15   Definition
   
131.16   Enforcement authorities
   
131.17   User responsibility
   
131.18   Applicability to hunters
   
131.19   Center fire rifles
   
131.20   Unlawful discharges
   
131.21   Exceptions
   
131.22   Use by child; direct adult supervision required
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or consume beer, wine,
fortified wine, malt liquor or liquor in or on any public street, right-of-way
or sidewalk within the town or on any property owned by the town located inside
or outside of the corporate limits. This section also includes all town parks.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 92-001, passed 6-30-1992) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 PUBLIC DECENCY GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally urinate or defecate in
or around any public place, including sidewalks, alleyways, streets, rights-of-
way or public property inside the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 92-003, passed 6-30-1992) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER. A person who has, within
the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within this
state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any of the
substances referred to in the State Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Chapter 90,
Article 5, or has been convicted of any violations of any substantially similar
laws of any political subdivision of this state or of any other state or
federal law, or by professional knowledge of the police officer.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility, or the doorways and
entrance ways to any building which fronts on any of those places, or any
property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain on foot or in a motor
vehicle or wander about on foot or in a motor vehicle in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in a violation
of any subdivision of the State Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Chapter 90,
Article 5. Those circumstances shall include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   The person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   The person behaves in a manner so as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug related activity or other unlawful activity;
      (6)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (7)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a police
officer; or
      (8)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-related
activities.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. passed 10-6-2003) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 USE OF TOBACCO IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   The use of all tobacco products, including tobacco that is intended to be
smoked in a cigarette, cigar, pipe or other smoking device, or is in smokeless
form, is hereby prohibited in all town buildings, vehicles, all park grounds
and any property owned or operated by the town.
(Ord. 2011-12.06, passed 11-7-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
FIREARMS
§ 131.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any weapon or similar instrument from which shot, shells, bullets
or similar projectiles are discharged by means of the explosion of gunpowder.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019)
§ 131.16 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES.
   State wildlife officers (wildlife protectors) and/or town police officers
are authorized to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019)
§ 131.17 USER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each person discharging a firearm is responsible for exhibiting reasonable
regard for the safety and property of other persons and for discharging the
firearm in such a manner as to assure that all projectiles come to rest safely
within the boundaries of the property on which the person is authorized to be
shooting.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019)
§ 131.18 APPLICABILITY TO HUNTERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons engaged in
hunting as regulated by G.S. §§ 113-127 et seq.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019)
§ 131.19 CENTER FIRE RIFLES.
   It is unlawful to take any game with a center fire firearm inside the town
limits.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.20 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
131.21, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within 900
feet of any of the following:
      (1)   A dwelling house;
      (2)   A school;
      (3)   A church;
      (4)   Any other type of building, while occupied;
      (5)   A public or private park or recreation area;
      (6)   Any other type of public gathering place; or
      (7)   A daycare center.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm in such a
way as will result in the projectile’s passing across a sidewalk, or across a
highway, street or other public vehicular area.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within 300
feet of any domestic livestock not belonging to him or her unless such person
has on his or her person written permission for such activity from the owner of
the livestock.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
131.20(A) shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   A person discharging a shotgun with #6 shot or smaller except slugs
and buckshot provided that the shooter is 300 feet or more from any of the
types of places or structures listed in §
131.20(A)(1) through (A)(7);
   (B)   A rifle, pistol, skeet or trap range, operated by a recognized gun
club or by a law enforcement agency, which firing range is substantially in
accordance with specifications promulgated by the National Rifle Association or
by an equivalent nationally recognized firearms safety authority for the type
and caliber of firearms being fired, except as provided in §
131.19;
   (C)   Law enforcement officers or members of the armed forces discharging
firearms in the line of duty (provided that §
131.17 shall not apply to such an activity);
   (D)   Persons discharging firearms for the purpose of shooting or killing
any dangerous animal or reptile;
   (E)   A person discharging a firearm in self-defense (provided that §
131.17 shall also not apply to such an activity); or
   (F)   Any person discharging a firearm must report to the Town Police
Department before shooting.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019)
§ 131.22 USE BY CHILD; DIRECT ADULT SUPERVISION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, being a parent or guardian of, or
standing in loco parentis to, any child under 12 years of age, to permit the
child to have possession or custody of, or use in any manner whatsoever, any
firearm, whether the firearm is loaded or is not loaded, without direct, active
adult supervision of the child at all times the child is holding the firearm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, being a parent or guardian of, or
standing in loco parentis to, any child between 12 years of age and 15 years of
age, to permit such child to discharge a firearm without direct, active adult
supervision of the child at all times the child is firing the firearm unless
that child has passed a hunter safety course or similarly recognized course in
firearms safety.
(Motion passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is subject to the
civil penalty in §
10.99. Such persons may also be subject to a criminal penalty.
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. §
14-4 by a fine of $500 and imprisonment for 30 days, or by a civil penalty of
$500, or both.
   (C)   Any person who continues to use products in a nonsmoking area in
violation of §
131.04 despite notice by the person in charge of the building or area that use
of tobacco products is not permitted is guilty of an infraction and will be
liable for a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 2011-12.06, passed 11-7-
2011; Motion passed 3-18-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
      
153.   MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS
      
154.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
      
155.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Thoroughfare Plan adopted
   
150.02   Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
§ 150.01 THOROUGHFARE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Town Thoroughfare Plan, as shown on a map dated February 7, 1994, is
approved and adopted as a guide in the development of the street and highway
system in the town urban area, and the same is hereby recommended to the State
Department of Transportation for its subsequent adoption.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Res. passed 3-7-1994)
§ 150.02 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The town hereby:
   (A)   Adopts those portions of the plan that pertain to the town and vests
the Mayor with the responsibility, authority and the means to inform all
concerned parties of this action and to promote the goals specified in the
plan;
   (B)   Appoints the Mayor to assure that the Hazard Mitigation Plan be
reviewed at least annually and that any needed adjustment or addendum to the
Hazard Mitigation Plan as it relates to this municipality be developed and
presented to the town for consideration; and
   (C)   Agrees to take other official action as may be reasonably necessary to
carry out the objectives of the Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Res. passed 8-2-2004)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Findings, purpose and objectives
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Permit, compliance and other general provisions
Administration
   
151.15   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.16   Floodplain development application; permit/certification requirements
   
151.17   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.18   Corrective procedures
   
151.19   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.30   General standards
   
151.31   Specific standards
   
151.32   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.33   Riverine floodplains with base flood elevations, but without
established floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.34   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
151.35   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
   
151.36   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH)
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.50   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention provisions
   
151.51   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
151.52   Severability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in G.S.
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6; G.S. Chapter 160D, Articles 7, 9 and 11; and
G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 8, delegated to local governmental units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare. Therefore, the town does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The floodprone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment
of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in floodprone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within floodprone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life, safety and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in floodprone areas;
      (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
      (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
      (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
      (9)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas; and
      (10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
      (1)   A determination of the water surface elevations of the base flood
as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has not been provided
in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from engineering studies
available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA approved engineering
methodologies.
      (2)   This elevation, when combined with the freeboard, establishes the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures and non-structural items, including, but not limited to, fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community, dated August 4, 2008.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter, the Unified Development
Ordinance, and other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building
codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances and other applications of
police power. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage.
   FLOODPRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable, are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood resistant. Refer to Technical Bulletin 2, flood
damage-resistant materials requirements, and available from the FEMA Class 4
and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified state
licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic models
meeting the minimum requirements of the national flood insurance program.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
FREEBOARD establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment,
recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the United StatesDepartment of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
Historic District or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered Historic District;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
Historic District designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
      (2)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
United StatesDepartment of the Interior in cooperation with the State
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966 as amended in 1980, being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). 
         (a)   An official amendment, by letter, to an effective national flood
insurance program map. A LOMA is based on technical data showing that a
property had been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, but is
actually on natural high ground above the base flood elevation.
         (b)   A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property or structure is not
located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective firm.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds gross vehicular
weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 C.F.R. § 86.082-2 and is:
      (A)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (B)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (C)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management.
      (1)   It is a central location in which flood data is stored and managed;
in the state, FEMA has recognized that the application of digital flood hazard
data products have the same authority as hard copy products. Therefore, the
NCEM’s floodplain mapping program websites house current and historical flood
hazard data.
      (2)   For effective flood hazard data, the state FRIS website (http://
fris.nc.gov/FRIS) is the map repository, and for historical flood hazard data,
the FloodNC website (http://flood.nc.gov/ncflood) is the MAP REPOSITORY.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the chapter and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The Agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The Agreement must show the Town Clerk’s or
Town Recorder’s stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study Report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).
      (1)   A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use;
and
         (d)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, “tiny homes/houses” and park
models that do not meet the items listed above are not considered RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES and should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential
structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as zones A, AE, AH, AO or A99. The REFERENCE
LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest
floor for structures within special flood hazard areas designated as Zone VE.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFES)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus four feet freeboard.
In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least four feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
151.03(B).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state, stanly county or
town of oakboro health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by a state, county or town code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3. The BULLETINS and FACT SHEETS are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New BULLETINS, as well as
updates of existing BULLETINS, are issued periodically as needed. The BULLETINS
do not create regulations; rather, they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (1)   It should be noted that TECHNICAL BULLETINS and TECHNICAL FACT
SHEETS provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question.
      (2)   All applicable standards of the state or local building code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.15 through
151.19 and §§
151.30 through
151.34 is presumed to be in violation until a time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.03 PERMIT, COMPLIANCE AND OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction, including extra-territorial
jurisdictions (ETJs), of the town and within the jurisdiction of any other
community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to the applicability.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) Agreement between the state and FEMA in its latest FIS for the county and
associated DFIRM panels, including any digital data developed as part of the
FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter, and
all revisions thereto.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of division (B)
above.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the Board of Commissioners; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.15 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as
the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community’s overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.16 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION; PERMIT/CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map, as determined in §
151.03(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.03(B);
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.03(B);
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE), where provided, as set forth in
§§
151.03(B),
151.17 or
151.32;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO or A99 will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with Article 5, Section B(4)(D) when solid
foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH, AO or A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
151.31(F) and (G) are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials and the like);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
151.03(B);
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless
the requirements of §
151.34 have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if applicable (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only); or
      (9)   A statement that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in §
151.16 (a)(1). To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire
building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level
areas, provide at least two additional photographs showing side views of the
building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation
showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by three inches.
Digital photographs are acceptable.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)    If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34) with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data,
the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (c)   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34) with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same.
         (d)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data,
the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to
certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to deny a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO or A99, and the elevation of the chassis is
more than 36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation
certification is required in accordance with the provisions of §
151.31(C)(2).
      (4)   Alteration of a watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
a professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by
the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO or A99, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.31(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.31(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
151.31(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the building
official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the State Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.17 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Public Safety,
Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National Flood
Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.34 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.16(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.16(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
151.16(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
151.16(C) and
151.31(B);
   (J)   (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment
areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation.
      (2)   The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.03(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.32(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.03(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that the information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended, being 5 U.S.C. § 552a;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   (1)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped,
the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the
work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   (1)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The
Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
(s) for the revocation.
      (2)   Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and or
NAVD 1988, or his or her designee, shall have a right, upon presentation of
proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.18;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited to,
the historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and
other official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.03(B), including any revisions thereto, and including letters of map
change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMS, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRS).
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.18 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in the
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action.
      (1)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above,
the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the building or development is in
violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue an order in writing to the
owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time
period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days.
      (2)   Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be
taken in a lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action may
appeal the order to the Board of Commissioners by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days following
issuance of the final order.
      (2)   In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Floodplain
Administrator shall be final.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear an appeal within a reasonable
time and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
      (1)   If the owner of a building or property fails to comply with an
order to take corrective action for which no appeal has been made or fails to
comply with an order of the governing body following an appeal, the owner shall
be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58 and shall be
punished at the discretion of the court.
      (2)   In addition to (E)(1) above, the town may enforce this chapter
though any remedies listed in §
10.99 and G.S. § 160A-175.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Adjustment as established by the town and its Town
Board of Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall
hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
the decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.02 above, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3) and (I)(5) below
have been satisfied, and the facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, as defined
under §
151.02, as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach the conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE)
and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and that the
construction below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in
increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance
coverage.
      (2)   The notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval; and
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, “Flood Damage-resistant Materials
Requirements.”
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback, and provided that the repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.19(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
151.16(C).
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344.
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   (P) Buildings and structures that are located in more than one flood hazard
area shall comply with the provisions associated with the most restrictive
flood hazard area.
   (Q)   Fill is prohibited in the SFHA, including construction of buildings on
fill. This includes not approving conditional letters or letters of map
revision based on fill (CLOMR-F or LOMR-F).
(Prior Code, § 151.30) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
151.03(B) or
151.32, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.30, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.02.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.02. Structures located in A, AE, AH, AO and A99 Zones may be floodproofed
to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
151.30(A). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this division (B) are satisfied. The
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
151.16(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.02.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within floodprone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. A fully enclosed area of new construction and
substantially improved structures which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door), or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of the enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (4)   Shall not be temperature controlled or conditioned.
   (E) Fill/grading. Fill is prohibited in the SFHA.
   (F)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a non-
conversion agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
area below the lowest floor shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted to habitable space; the town will have the right to inspect the
enclosed area. This agreement shall be recorded with the County Register of
Deeds and shall transfer with the property in perpetuity.
   (G)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below BFE, then
the owner may request release of the restrictive covenant (non-conversion
agreement) after staff inspection and submittal of confirming documentation.
   (H)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements, in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions and/or improvements to post-firm structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure other than a standards door in a common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements, in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure, are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Additions and/or improvements to post-firm structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure; and/or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (5)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one-
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure
has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (I)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions).
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (J)   Temporary nonresidential structures.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a
temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a plan for the removal of the structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash
flood or other type of flood warning notification.
      (2)   The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The timeframe prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (K)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met.
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
151.30(A).
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.30(D).
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
or that is an investment of $3,000 or less and satisfies the criteria outlined
above is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards of §
151.16(C) above. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are required for all
other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.16(C).
   (L)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty.
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area.
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements of this chapter
shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided the tanks are designed,
constructed, installed and anchored to resist all flood-related and other
loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood
and without release of contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by
floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed and
anchored to resist the potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on an
empty tank during design flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (M)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAS that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
151.34 of this chapter.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAS. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
151.34 of this chapter.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAS.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
151.34 of this chapter.
      (4)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered “limited storage”
as noted in this chapter, and shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation as required for commercial structures.
(Prior Code, § 151.31) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.32 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.03(B), where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.30, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development, shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within those areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
151.30 and
151.31.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements within
floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the requirements of
§§
151.31 and
151.34.
      (3)   (a)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites.
         (b)   The base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by
reference in accordance with §
151.03(B) and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.02. All other applicable provisions of §
151.31 shall also apply.
(Prior Code, § 151.32) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.33 RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS, BUT WITHOUT
ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source, but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within those areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
151.30 and
151.31; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Prior Code, § 151.33) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.34 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.03(B).
   (B)   The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (C)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
151.30 and
151.31 above, shall apply to all development within those areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments, shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (C)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted if the following provisions are
met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.31(C) ; and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of §
151.34(C)(1).
(Prior Code, § 151.34) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.35 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in section §
151.03(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
151.30 and
151.31, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of four feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in §§
151.30 and
151.31 so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with Article 4, Section B(3)
and Article 5, Section B(2).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
§ 151.36 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.03(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are
subject to inundation by 1%-annual-chance shallow flooding (usually areas of
ponding) where average depths are one to three feet. Base flood elevations are
derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this Zone.
   (B)   In addition to §§
151.30 and
151.31, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements: Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.50 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION PROVISIONS.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted September 21, 2000, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of the existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of this chapter enacted on
September 21, 2000, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for the county is
June 9, 1978.
(Prior Code, § 151.45) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.51 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under the
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.46) (Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
§ 151.52 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from enforcing of this
chapter though any other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation including all remedies listed in §
10.99 and G.S. § 160A-175.
   (C)   (1)   Any willful violation of this chapter or of any provisions
adopted (or of the provisions of any permit issued) under the authority of this
chapter shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (2)   A local government may use all of the remedies available for the
enforcement of ordinances under G.S. Chapters 153A, 160A and 160D to enforce an
ordinance adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   Failure to remove any artificial obstruction or enlargement or
replacement thereof, that violates this chapter or any ordinance adopted (or
the provision of any permit issued) under the authority of this chapter, shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter for each day that the failure
continues after written notice from the County Board of Commissioners or
governing board of a city.
   (E)   In addition to or in lieu of other remedies, the County Board of
Commissioners or governing board of a city may institute any appropriate action
or proceeding to restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or of any
ordinance adopted (or of the provisions of any permit issued) under the
authority of this chapter, or to require any person, firm or corporation that
has committed a violation to remove a violating obstruction or restore the
conditions existing before the placement of the obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 151.99)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143-215.58
CHAPTER 152: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
Section
   
152.01   Title; purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Scope and exclusions
   
152.04   General requirements; basic control objectives
   
152.05   Standards for land-disturbing activity
   
152.06   Borrow and waste areas
   
152.07   Access and haul roads
   
152.08   Operations in lake or natural watercourses
   
152.09   Responsibility for maintenance
   
152.10   Additional measures
   
152.11   Existing uncovered areas
   
152.12   Permits
   
152.13   Erosion and sedimentation control plans
   
152.14   Appeals
   
152.15   Compliance with plan requirements
   
152.16   Inspections and investigations
   
152.17   Injunctive relief
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter may be cited as the County Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is adopted for the purposes of:
      (1)   Regulating certain land-disturbing activities to control
accelerated erosion and sedimentation in order that water pollution from
sedimentation may be controlled, that the accelerated erosion and sedimentation
of lakes and natural watercourses and damage to public and private property by
sedimentation be inhibited; and
      (2)   Establishing procedures through which these purposes can be
fulfilled.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. Any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land-disturbing activities.
   ACTIVE CONSTRUCTION. Activities which contribute directly to the completion
of facilities contemplated or shown on the construction plans.
   ADEQUATE EROSION CONTROL MEASURE, STRUCTURE OR DEVICE. One which stabilizes
the soil material within the land area under responsible control of the person
conducting the land-disturbing activity.
   BORROW. Fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
   BUFFER ZONE. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse,
the width of which is measured from the center of the stream channel to the
nearest edge of the disturbed area, with the 25% of the strip nearer the land-
disturbing activity containing natural or artificial means of confining visible
siltation.
   COMMISSION. The State Sedimentation Control Commission.
   CRITICAL AREA. Any area, regardless of size, that lacks protective ground
cover and produces sediment at a highly excessive rate. Gullies, loose fills
and some cuts are examples.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Natural and Economic Resources.
   DISTRICT. The County Soil and Water Conservation District created pursuant
to G.S. Chapter 139.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity or any combination thereof.
   GOVERNING BODY OF THE COUNTY. The Stanly County Board of Commissioners.
   GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material, both natural
or human-made, which renders the soil surface stable against accelerated
erosion.
   LAKE or NATURAL WATERCOURSE. Any stream, river, brook, swamp, creek, run,
branch, canal and any reservoir, lake or pond, natural or impounded, in which
sediment may be moved or carried in suspension, and which could be damaged by
accumulation of sediment.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development, highway or
road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover
or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Any county, incorporated village, town or city, or any
combination of counties, incorporated villages, towns and cities, acting
through a joint program pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   NATURAL EROSION. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind or
other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
humans.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body or other legal
entity.
   PERSON ENGAGED IN OR CONDUCTING LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. The individual,
partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private corporation,
trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
cooperative, interstate body or other legal entity financially responsible for
the land-disturbing activity.
   PHASE OF GRADING. One of two types of grading, rough or fine.
   PLAN. Erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   SEDIMENT. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has been
or is being transported by water, air, gravity or ice from its site of origin.
   SILTATION. Sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which has been
transported from its point of origin within the site of a land-disturbing
activity, which is settleable or removable by properly applied and maintained
vegetative and/or mechanical control measures.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The direct surface runoff of water resulting from
precipitation in any form.
   TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water in one ownership, or
contiguous land and bodies of water in diverse ownership being developed as a
unit, although not necessarily all at one time.
   UNCOVERED. The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil surface.
   UNDERTAKEN. The initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
   WASTE. Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed of
at other locations.
   WORKING DAYS. Days exclusive of Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays, both
state and federal, during which weather conditions permit land-disturbing
activities to be undertaken, except when the inspecting official deems the
erosive hazards present to be very severe. When those hazards are present, all
calendar days except Sunday will be considered working days, if weather
conditions permit the work needed to be carried out.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.03 SCOPE AND EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall apply to land-disturbing activities undertaken by any
person, with the following exclusions:
   (A)   Those undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and
animals useful to humans, including, but not limited to: forage and sod crops,
grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton and peanuts; dairy animals and dairy
products; poultry and poultry products; livestock, including beef cattle,
sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules or goats, including the breeding and
grazing of any or all like animals; bees and apiary products, fur animals;
   (B)   Those undertaken on forest land for the production and harvesting of
timber and timber products;
   (C)   Activities undertaken by persons as defined in G.S. § 113A-52(7), who
are otherwise regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of 1971, G.S. §§
74-46 through 74-68; and
   (D)   Land-disturbing activities over which the state, by statute, has
exclusive regulatory jurisdiction, which are activities:
      (1)   Conducted by the state;
      (2)   Conducted by the United States;
      (3)   Conducted by persons having the power of eminent domain;
      (4)   Conducted by local governments;
      (5)   Licensed by the state or the United States; or
      (6)   Funded in whole or in part by the state or the United States.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.04 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; BASIC CONTROL OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   General requirements. Persons engaged in land-disturbing activities
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage by the activities.
   (B)   Basic control objectives. The basic control objectives which are to be
considered in developing and implementing an erosion and sedimentation control
plan are to:
      (1)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which have sustained or are
subject to erosion at a highly excessive rate and off-site areas which are
especially vulnerable to damage from erosion and/or sedimentation are to be
identified and receive appropriate, preventative treatment;
      (2)   Limit size of exposed areas. All land-disturbing activities are to
be planned and conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any
one time;
      (3)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activities are to be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time;
      (4)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas, regardless of property boundaries, should be controlled to
reduce erosion and sediment loss during the period of exposure; and
      (5)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activities are to be
planned and conducted so as to minimize off-site sedimentation damage.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.05 STANDARDS FOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   No land-disturbing activity subject to the control of this chapter shall be
undertaken except in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Buffer zone. No land-disturbing activity shall be permitted in
proximity to a lake or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided
along the margin of the watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible
siltation within the 25% of the buffer zone nearer the land-disturbing
activity, provided, that this division (A) shall not apply to a land-disturbing
activity in connection with the construction of facilities to be located on,
over or under a lake or natural watercourse.
   (B)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills shall
be no greater than the angle which can be retained by vegetative cover or other
adequate erosion control devices or structures. In any event, slopes left
exposed will, within 30 working days of completion of any phase of grading, be
planted or otherwise provided with ground cover, devices or structures
sufficient to restrain erosion.
   (C)   Ground cover. Whenever land-disturbing activity is undertaken on a
tract comprising more than one acre, if more than one contiguous acre is
uncovered, a ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be planted or
otherwise provided within 30 working days on that portion of the tract upon
which further active construction is not being undertaken, provided, that this
division (C) shall not apply to cleared land forming the basin of a reservoir
later to be inundated, or where surface water runoff and sediment are retained
on the uncovered tract.
   (D)   Design and performance of control measures. Erosion and sedimentation
control measures, structures and devices shall be so planned, designed and
constructed as to provide control of accelerated erosion and sedimentation from
the calculated peak rates of runoff from a ten-year frequency storm. For the
purpose of this chapter, a ten-year frequency storm for the county shall be
considered a storm in which five and one-fifth inches of rain falls in a period
of 24 hours or less. Runoff rates shall be calculated using the procedures in
the USDA, Soil Conservation Service’s National Engineering Field Manual for
Conservation Practices, or other acceptable calculation procedures. Runoff
computations shall be based on rainfall data published by the National Weather
Service for the area.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.06 BORROW AND WASTE AREAS.
   (A)   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the
person conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity areas from which borrow
is obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of
1971, being G.S. §§ 74-46 et seq., and waste areas for surplus materials, other
than landfills regulated by the Department of Human Resources, Division of
Health Services, shall be considered as part of the land-disturbing activity
where the borrow material is being used or from which the waste material
originated.
   (B)   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is not the
person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of the waste, these areas shall be
considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.07 ACCESS AND HAUL ROADS.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a part
of the activity.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.08 OPERATIONS IN LAKE OR NATURAL WATERCOURSES.
   Land-disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted in a manner
so as to minimize the extent and duration of disturbance of the stream channel.
The relocation of a stream, where relocation is an essential part of the
proposed activity, shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes in
the stream flow characteristics, except when justification for significant
alteration to flow characteristic is provided.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.09 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The person engaged in or conducting the land-disturbing activity shall
be responsible for maintaining all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation measures and facilities during the development of a site.
   (B)   The responsibility for maintaining all permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures and facilities after site development is
completed shall lie with the landowner.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.10 ADDITIONAL MEASURES.
   Whenever the governing body determines that significant sedimentation is
occurring as a result of a land-disturbing activity, despite application and
maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity or the person responsible for maintenance will be required to take
additional protective action.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.11 EXISTING UNCOVERED AREAS.
   (A)   All uncovered areas existing on the effective date of this chapter
which resulted from land-disturbing activities, and exceed one contiguous acre,
and are subject to continued accelerated erosion, and are causing off-site
damage from sedimentation, shall be provided with a ground cover or other
protective measures, structures or devices sufficient to restrain accelerated
erosion and control off-site sedimentation.
   (B)   The governing body will serve upon the landowner written notice to
comply. The notice will set forth the measures needed to comply and will state
the time within which measures must be completed. In determining the measures
required and the time allowed for compliance, the authority serving notice
shall take into consideration the economic feasibility, technology and quantity
of work required, and shall set reasonable and attainable time limits for
compliance.
   (C)   The governing body reserves the right to require preparation and
approval of an erosion control plan in any instance wherein extensive control
measures are required.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.12 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall undertake any land-disturbing activity subject to this
chapter without first obtaining a permit therefor from the County Planning
Board Office, except that no permit shall be required for the land-disturbing
activities under §
152.03.
   (B)   No permit shall be required for the following land-disturbing
activities:
      (1)   Those done for the purpose of fighting fires;
      (2)   The stock piling of raw or processed sand, stone or gravel in
material processing plants and storage yards, provided that sediment control
measures have been utilized to protect against off-site damages; and
      (3)   Land-disturbing activities that do not exceed one acre (43,560
square feet) of surface area. In determining the area, contiguous lands under
one or diverse ownership being developed as a unit will be aggregated.
   (C)   The basic fee for a permit for land-disturbing activities that are
subject to the conditions of this chapter shall be determined by the Board of
County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 152.12) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   An erosion control plan shall be prepared for all land-disturbing
activities subject to this chapter whenever the proposed activity is to be
undertaken on a tract comprising more than one acre, if more than one
contiguous acre is to be uncovered. The plan shall be filed with the County
Planning Board, County Soil and Water Conservation District and the governing
body 30 days prior to the commencement of the proposed activity.
   (B)   The County Soil and Water Conservation District, within 20 days of
receipt of any plan, shall review the plan and submit its comments and
recommendations to the governing body. Failure of the District to submit its
comments and recommendations to the governing body within the prescribed time
will not delay final action on the plan.
   (C)   The governing body will review each plan submitted to it and, within
30 days of receipt thereof, will notify the person subletting the plan that it
has been approved, approved with modifications, approved with performance
reservations or disapproved.
   (D)   The plan required by this section shall contain architectural and
engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations and narrative statements
as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the tract and the
measures planned to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Plan content
may vary to meet the needs of specific site requirements. Detailed guidelines
for plan preparation may be obtained from the County Planning Board on request.
   (E)   Application for amendment of an erosion control plan in written and/or
graphic form may be made at any time under the same conditions as the original
application. Until a time as the amendment is approved by the governing body,
the land-disturbing activities shall not proceed except in accordance with the
erosion control plan as originally approved.
(Prior Code, § 152.13) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   The disapproval or modification of any proposed erosion control plan
by the County Planning Board shall entitle the person submitting the plan to a
public hearing if the person submits written demand for a hearing within 15
days after receipt of written notice of disapproval or modifications.
   (B)   (1)   Hearings held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the
County Planning Board’s Sedimentation Control Hearing Committee within 15 days
after the date of the appeal on any erosion control plan.
      (2)   The Sediment Control Hearing Committee shall make written
recommendations to the governing body of the county within ten days after the
date of the hearing.
      (3)   The Sedimentation Control Hearing Committee is to be composed of a
representative of each incorporated town, Badin, County Planning Board,
District Conservationist, technical consultant, County Soil and Water
Conservation District Chairperson and a County Commissioner.
   (C)   The governing body will render its final decision on any erosion
control plan on which a hearing has been conducted within 30 days of receipt of
the recommendations from the County Sedimentation Control Hearing Committee.
(Prior Code, § 152.14) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.15 COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person engaged in land-disturbing activities who fails to file a plan in
accordance with this chapter, or who conducts a land-disturbing activity except
in accordance with provisions of a plan shall be deemed in violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.15) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Agents and officials of the governing body will periodically inspect
the sites of land-disturbing activities for which permits have been issued to
determine whether the activities are being conducted in accordance with the
plan and to determine whether the measures required in the plan are effective
in controlling erosion and sediment resulting from land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   If, through inspection, it is determined that a person engaged in
land-disturbing activities has failed to comply with the approved plan, a
notice to comply shall be served by the governing body upon that person by
registered mail. The notice shall set forth the measures necessary to achieve
compliance with the plan and shall state the time within which the measures
must be completed. If the person engaged in the land-disturbing activities
fails to comply within the time specified, he or she shall be deemed in
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The governing body shall have the power to conduct the
investigations as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as
prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times
upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and
inspecting the sites of land-disturbing activities.
      (2)   No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized
representative or agent of the governing body who requests entry for purposes
of inspection, and who presents appropriate credentials, nor shall any person
obstruct, hamper or interfere with any representative while in the process of
carrying out his or her official duties.
   (D)   The governing body shall also have the power to require written
statements, or the filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent
questions relating to land-disturbing activities.
(Prior Code, § 152.16) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the governing body has reasonable cause to believe that
any person is violating or threatening to violate this chapter or any rule or
order adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter or any term, condition or
provision of an approved erosion control plan, it may, either before or after
the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this chapter,
institute a civil action in the name of the county for injunctive relief to
restrain the violation or threatened violation.
      (2)   The action shall be brought in the superior court of the county.
   (B)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened, it shall enter the orders or judgments as are necessary to
abate the violation or to prevent the threatened violation. The institution of
an action for injunctive relief under this section shall not relieve any party
to the proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.17) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter, or who initiates or
continues a land-disturbing activity for which an erosion control plan is
required except in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an
approved plan, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $100. No
penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has been
notified by registered mail of the violation. Each day of a continuing
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   The governing body shall determine the amount of the civil penalty
to be assessed under this division (A)(2), and shall make written demand for
payment upon the person in violation, and shall set forth in detail a
description of the violation for which the penalty has been imposed. In
determining the amount of the penalty, the governing body shall consider the
degree and extent of harm caused by the violation and the cost of rectifying
the damage. If payment is not received, or equitable settlement reached within
60 days after demand for payment is made, the matter shall be referred to the
County Attorney for institution of a civil action in the name of the county in
the appropriate division of the general courts of justice for recovery of the
penalty. Any sums recovered shall be used to carry out the purposes and
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any
provision of this chapter, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
chapter, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which an erosion control plan is required, except in accordance
with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by a fine
not to exceed $5,000, or by both, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. passed 7-1-1975)
CHAPTER 153: MINIMUM HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Title; purpose; jurisdiction
   
153.02   Exercise of police powers; authority
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Inspector; designation; authority; powers; liability
   
153.05   Minimum standards
   
153.06   Accessory structures
   
153.07   Property maintenance
   
153.08   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses
   
153.09   Occupant’s responsibilities
   
153.10   Enforcement against occupant
   
153.11   Owner’s responsibilities
   
153.12   Emergency cases
   
153.13   Residential buildings unfit for human habitation
   
153.14   Procedure for enforcement
   
153.15   Certificate of compliance
   
153.16   Appeal and petitions
   
153.17   Service of complaints and the like
   
153.18   Other unlawful actions
   
153.19   Alternative remedies
   
153.20   Conflicts with other provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE; PURPOSE; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Minimum Housing Ordinance,”
may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to arrest, remedy and prevent
the decay and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate for places
of habitation for the protection of the life, health, welfare, safety and
property of the general public and the owners and occupants of places of
habitation.
   (C)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to all residential
buildings and accessory structures within the town limits and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ), as hereafter extended or amended.
      (2)   Demountable buildings or structures, when used or intended for the
use of human habitation, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.02 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWERS; AUTHORITY.
   The Town Commissioners hereby find and declare that there exists within the
town limits, the ETJ and its environs, residential buildings and accessory
structures which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities and other conditions rendering such
buildings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous, or detrimental to the health,
safety or morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents within
the town and its environs, and that public necessity exists to exercise the
police powers of the town to cause the repair and rehabilitation, closing or
demolishing of such buildings and structures, in the manner herein provided, as
provided by state statute.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms,
words, phrases and their derivatives used but not specifically defined in this
chapter shall have the meaning specifically defined in the Building Code.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed, built,
rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as the
home or residence of three or more families living independently of each other
in dwelling units.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum horizontal
proposed area of the building at grade.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, the total square footage of
floor area between furnished walls.
   BASEMENT. A story with 50% or more of its cubical contents below finished
yard grade.
   BUILDING. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if
followed by the words “or part thereof.”
   CEILING HEIGHT. The clear vertical distance from the finished floor to the
finished ceiling.
   COMMON AREAS. All areas which were conveyed to a homeowners’ association in
a townhouse development, condominium, cooperative or planned unit development.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building leaving the
property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets which may
retain water.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, which is used or
designed or intended to be used for human habitation, including living,
sleeping, cooking, eating or any combination thereof, and shall include
accessory structures intended for human habitation.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a building and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXIT. A clear and unobstructed way of departure from the interior of a
building or structure to the exterior at street or grade level.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests, eliminating their harborage places by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the inspector.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit and doing their cooking on the premises.
   FIRE DAMAGE. An action caused by a fire other than smoke damage.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessarily incidental thereto.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors,
closets or storage spaces.
   HOUSEHOLD. All persons who occupy a dwelling unit, including a person living
alone or any group of persons sharing a dwelling unit.
   HOUSING. Any building, or structure, or part thereof, used and occupied for
human habitation or intended to be used, including any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually associated therewith.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, or any harmful
insects, rodents or other pests.
   INSPECTION OFFICE. The office of the inspector, as defined herein.
   INSPECTOR. Any individual or employee of the town who is specifically
designated by the Town Commissioners to enforce the provisions of this code.
   MULTI-FAMILY HOUSE (BUILDING/STRUCTURE). A building or portion thereof
containing three or more dwelling units, including tenement house, apartment
house or flat.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of, a dwelling or rooming unit.
   OWNER. A holder of any legal or equitable estate in the premises, whether
alone or jointly with others, and whether in possession or not.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, partnerships,
corporations and others who have monetary interest in a dwelling and any who
are in possession or control thereof either as agent of the owner, as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the owner.
   PIER. A masonry support of at least eight inches by 12 inches of solid
masonry extending from the ground and footing to and supporting the building or
portion thereof. PIER sizes and spacing shall conform to the specifications of
the State Residential Building Code and as may be amended.
   PLUMBING. The water supply system, the sanitary and storm drainage system,
the vent system, the fixtures and traps and shall include their respective
connections, devices, appliances and appurtenances within the property lines of
the premises.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any public authority for housing or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town, the county or
the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings or buildings in the town.
   PUBLIC SPACE. The space within any multi-family housing which is open to
common use by the occupants and others visiting the premises.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any building or structure, or portion thereof, which
is used or designed or intended to be for human habitation, including living,
sleeping, cooking or eating or any combination thereof.
   ROOMING HOUSE or BOARD HOUSE. Any dwelling in which the owner’s agent or
lessee shall rent or offer for rent accommodation for living and sleeping
purposes to three or more persons, provided that the capacity (total number of
roomers or boarders) shall not exceed one person per 75 square feet of
permissible area for said incidental home occupation.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room for let within a rooming house.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage,
including, but not limited to, ashes, wood, coal, coke and other combustible
material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree
branches, yard trimmings, leaves, chemical matter, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, dust and dirt.
   SAGGING. The amount of deflection occurring over a span between two
supporters.
   SERIOUSLY. That the amount of damage occurring shall be sufficient to
decrease the designed strength of the structural member.
   STORY. The part of a building comprised between a floor and the floor or
roof next above.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner. The term STRUCTURE shall be construed as if
followed by the words “or part thereof.”
   SUBSTANDARD RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any building, including any dwelling unit,
guest room or suite of rooms or the premises on which the same is located, or
portion thereof, which does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter.
   TENANT. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others occupies a
residential building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy in a building.
   TOWN HOUSING APPEAL BOARD (APPEAL BOARD). The five members of the Town
Housing Appeal Board, as established by the Town Commissioners.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.04 INSPECTOR; DESIGNATION; AUTHORITY; POWERS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Enforcement agency. The inspector is hereby designated the officer to
exercise, by and through his or her duly appointed agents, the powers
prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   Consulting agency. The inspector shall have authority to request
advice and assistance of the Town Police Department, town public works, county
housing inspector, Housing Authority, Town Fire Department, County Fire
Marshal, County Sheriff’s Department, County Health Department or any other
public authority he or she may deem appropriate, in exercising the powers of
this chapter.
   (C)   Powers.
      (1)   The inspector shall determine that residential buildings and
accessory structures are substandard and unfit for human habitation, and if he
or she finds, on the basis of the standards and requirements of fitness set
forth in this chapter, that conditions exist in the buildings or accessory
structures which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety or morals of
the occupants of the buildings, the occupants of neighboring buildings or other
residents of the town and environs, shall take such actions as are directed by
this chapter.
      (2)   These conditions include (without limiting the generality of the
foregoing) defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other
calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary facilities;
dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; and uncleanliness.
   (D)   Administrative liability. Except as may otherwise be provided by
statute or local law or ordinance, no officer, inspector or employee of the
municipality charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall be personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties under this
chapter. No person who institutes or assists in the prosecution of a civil or
criminal proceeding under this chapter shall be liable for damages hereunder
unless he or she acted with malice and without reasonable grounds for believing
that the person accused was guilty of any unlawful act or omission.
   (E)   Duty of inspector. It shall be the duty of the inspector to diligently
examine residential buildings and accessory structures located in the town and
its environs where the conditions described in §
153.02 exist for the purposes of locating and taking action with respect to
such buildings and structures as appear to be unfit for human habitation. The
inspector shall conduct all inspections and procedures as provided by this
chapter.
   (F)   Further powers. The inspector shall have such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing)
the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
      (1)   To investigate residential building conditions in the town and its
environs to determine which buildings therein are unfit for human habitation,
being guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in
this chapter;
      (2)   To administer oaths, affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence;
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises, dwellings and buildings for the
purpose of making examinations and investigations, provided that such entries
shall be made in such lawful manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the person in possession;
      (4)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and
employees as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purpose of this
chapter;
      (5)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate; and
      (6)   To file civil action in the nature of a summary ejectment to
effectuate an order to vacate a dwelling as provided in G.S. § 160A-443(7).
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following shall constitute the minimum standards and requirements for
residential buildings and shall be pertinent in determining fitness for human
habitation.
   (A)   Minimum services and facilities.
      (1)   Each building site shall be one that can be used and maintained
individually without trespass upon adjoining properties.
      (2)   Utilities and other facilities shall be independent for each
building site. An exception may be permitted for common gas and water service
to two adjacent properties where:
         (a)   The location of the common service line does not adversely
affect the future use of the lot;
         (b)   The common service line is protected by a permanent easement
agreement to assure continued maintenance;
         (c)   Individual shut-off valves are provided so that independent
service is assured; and
         (d)   Ownership of the common potion of the service line remains with
the serving utility.
      (3)   Each dwelling unit shall contain provisions for each of the
following:
         (a)   A continuing supply of safe and potable water;
         (b)   Sanitary facilities and a safe method of sewage disposal;
         (c)   Heating facilities adequate for healthful and comfortable living
conditions;
         (d)   Domestic hot water; and
         (e)   Electricity for lighting and for equipment used in the dwelling.
   (B)   Access.
      (1)   Access to building site.
         (a)   Each building site shall be provided with vehicular access to
the building site by an abutting public or private street. Private streets
shall be protected by a permanent easement for ingress and egress.
         (b)   The width and construction of the required street and provisions
for its continued maintenance shall provide safe and suitable vehicular access
to and from the building site at all times.
      (2)   Access of the rear yard. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with
a means of access to the rear yard. For a row dwelling, the access shall be by
means of an alley, easement, open passage through the dwelling or other
acceptable means.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Generally. Each dwelling unit shall have at least two habitable
rooms of which one shall be a bedroom. In addition, a bathroom shall be
provided within. Dwelling units designed as efficiency apartments may have one
habitable room, with a bathroom if the minimum space requirement is met.
      (2)   Minimum standards objective.
         (a)   Each dwelling shall be provided with space necessary to assure
suitable living, sleeping, cooking and dining accommodations, adequate storage
and sanitary facilities.
         (b)   The area occupied by a stair or closets shall not be included in
the determination of required room sizes.
      (3)   Minimum space requirements.
         (a)   Living or principal room shall not be less than 150 square feet;
         (b)   The first bedroom not less than 100 square feet;
         (c)   All other bedrooms not less than 70 square feet;
         (d)   Kitchen and dining room combination shall be not less than 100
square feet; and
         (e)   Efficiency apartment shall not be less than 200 square feet.
      (4)   Minimum space requirements for occupancy.
          (a)   At least 150 square feet of habitable floor space for the first
occupant;
         (b)   At least 100 square feet for each of the next three occupants;
         (c)   At least 50 square feet for each additional occupant; and
         (d)   Note: Children under four years of age shall not be counted.
   (D)   Habitable rooms.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall be not less than seven feet wide in any
part and shall contain not less than 70 square feet of net floor area.
      (2)   Habitable rooms shall have a clear height of not less than seven
feet six inches for at least 50% of the net floor area.
      (3)   The portion of any room where the ceiling height is less than five
feet shall not be considered as required floor area.
      (4)   A basement may be used as a habitable room or housing unit if it
meets the following criteria.
         (a)   Finished rooms in basements or below grade intended for year-
round occupancy are considered habitable rooms and shall comply with the same
standards as are rooms above grade.
         (b)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness and condensation.
          (c)   The total window area in each room is equal to at least the
window area sizes prescribed herein for habitable rooms (see division (E)
below).
         (d)   1.   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to
at least the area prescribed herein for habitable rooms (see division (E)
below), except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the inspector.
            2.   Habitable rooms used primarily for the purpose of sleeping
that do not meet the requirements for openable window and which have adequate
approved ventilation shall have two exit doors located as remotely as possible
from each other.
      (5)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be enclosed.
      (6)   Access shall be provided to require toilet rooms without going
outside building or habitable space.
      (7)   Access shall be provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit
without passing through a public space. Rooming houses are exempt from this
requirement.
      (8)   Doors shall be provided at all doorways leading to bedrooms, toilet
rooms and bathrooms and all rooms adjoining a public area.
      (9)   All exterior doors shall be weathertight.
   (E)   Light and ventilation requirements.
      (1)   Natural lighting, when required, shall be provided by means of
windows, glazed doors, skylights, transparent or translucent panels or by any
combination thereof. Area of glazing material shall be sufficient to transmit
an amount of light equal to that transmitted by the required area of clear
glass.
      (2)   All outside windows and doors opening to the outside, used for
ventilation purposes shall be adequately screened. All residential buildings
where approved permanent air conditioning is provided shall be excluded from
this requirement.
         (a)   Screens shall not be permanently fixed to sash, frames or jamb.
         (b)   All screen frames shall be removable for repair.
         (c)   Screens shall provide insect-proof ventilation.
      (3)   All moveable sash windows shall be lockable.
      (4)   An alcove opening off a habitable room may be included as part of
that room in determining the window area required provided that a portion of
the common wall between the habitable room and the alcove is open and
unobstructed.
      (5)   For the purpose of determining light and ventilation requirements,
any room may be counted with an adjoining room when one-half of the area of the
common wall is open and unobstructed.
      (6)   Windows shall be weathertight; there shall be no broken glass.
      (7)   A toilet room which contains more than one flush unit shall have an
operable window unless served by an approved ventilation system.
      (8)   Every public hall and inside stairway in every dwelling or multi-
family dwelling shall be adequately lighted at all times to permit safe
passage.
   (F)   Exit requirements.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall have two exits located as remotely as
possible.
      (2)   At least one exit shall be side hinged.
      (3)   One exit door shall be at least 30 inches wide and six feet, six
inches high.
      (4)   All exit doors shall be easily operable.
      (5)   There shall be a safe, continuous and unobstructed exit from the
interior of building to the exterior at street or grade level.
      (6)   Buildings meeting the requirements of the State Building Code
Volume I exempting two exits shall be exempted from the requirements of this
section.
   (G)   Plumbing requirements.
      (1)   All new plumbing shall be installed in accordance with Volume II of
the State Plumbing Code, titled “Plumbing.” Any repair or replacement of
existing plumbing shall be done in accordance with said Plumbing Code when, in
the opinion of the chief plumbing inspector, it is practical or otherwise vital
to the interest of health and sanitation.
      (2)   All plumbing shall be connected to the town’s water system and town
sanitary sewer system where necessary as determined by the town or the
Department of Health. Existing wells and septic systems may be allowed where
either public water or public sewer is not available.
      (3)   All fixtures shall be operable.
      (4)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
      (5)   Water closets shall not be loose or leaking.
      (6)   No leaks shall be in shower stall floors.
      (7)   There shall be running water installed inside each residential
building for each dwelling unit.
      (8)   There shall be adequate separate facilities for furnishing running
hot and cold water to each tub or shower, lavatory or kitchen sink.
      (9)   There shall be installed a water closet, tub or shower, lavatory
and sink for each dwelling unit.
      (10)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each dwelling unit.
      (11)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
insulation.
      (12)   Sewer and water lines shall be properly supported and no lines
shall be broken or leaking.
      (13)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so maintained to permit such floor to be readily kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (H)   Heating requirements.
      (1)   All new heating, ventilation and air conditioning shall be
installed in accordance with Volume III of the State Building Code, titled
“H.V.A.C.” Any repair or replacement of existing H.V.A.C. shall be done in
accordance with said H.V.A.C. Code when, in the opinion of the chief H.V.A.C.
inspector, it is practical or otherwise vital to the interest of dangerous and
hazardous conditions.
      (2)   Every building and every dwelling unit shall be weather-proof and
capable of being adequately heated. The heating equipment in every dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be maintained in a safe workable condition.
      (3)   A heating system shall be provided by either the owner or occupant.
In an occupied building the heating system shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition and capable of safely and adequately
heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments to a
temperature of at least 68°F at a distance of at least three feet above floor
level with an outside temperature of 20°F. For unoccupied buildings, no
certificate of compliance shall be issued until issuance of a permit for a
heating system and said system has been inspected and found to be properly
installed.
      (4)   Hand-fired equipment shall have a check damper and turn damper
installed in the smoke pipe unless it is included as an integral part of the
heating unit. The turn damper shall have not less than 20% free opening when in
closed position.
       (5)   All applicable heating equipment installed on the premises shall
be listed by a national testing laboratory accepted by the state labeled and
installed in accordance with the provisions of Volume III of the State Building
Code, titled “Heating.”
      (6)   Liquid fuel stored on the premises shall be stored in accordance
with the provisions of Volume III of the State Building Code.
      (7)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
      (8)   There shall be no holes in flues.
      (9)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
      (10)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
      (11)   Thimbles shall not be broken.
      (12)   Thimbles shall be high enough for stovepipe to rise one-quarter
inch per foot minimum.
      (13)   Hearth, where required, shall be at least 16 inches deep (measured
to face material) and six inches beyond each side of fireplace opening.
      (14)   If fireplace opening is closed, it shall be a masonry closure.
      (15)   Stove shall be within six feet of thimble serving it.
      (16)   No combustible material shall be within 18 inches of stovepipe.
      (17)   Solid fuel burning stovepipe shall be not less than 24 gauge;
joints shall be fastened with three screws.
      (18)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
      (19)   In apartment buildings with central heat, the furnace room shall
be enclosed with material having at least one hour fire protection rating.
      (20)   Solid fuel appliances require an approved-type mat, liquid fuel
appliances shall be installed per manufacturer’s specification.
   (I)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   There shall be at least two duplex receptacles installed in each
habitable room.
      (2)   There shall be a lighting fixture controlled at the fixture or by
wall switch installed in each habitable room, bathroom, laundry and furnace
rooms. A third receptacle outlet controlled by a wall switch may be substituted
for a fixture.
      (3)   There shall be a wall switch controlled lighting fixture installed
at each outside entrance and in stairways controlled by three-way switches.
      (4)   If the dwelling unit is wired for an electrical range and also an
electrical water heater or an electrical clothes dryer, the electric service
shall be a minimum of 100 amps.
      (5)   Fuses shall be properly sized to match the wire sizes to prevent
overloading and damaging the wire. Type “S” fuses (fuse-stats) shall be used.
       (6)   All switches, fixtures and receptacles shall be in safe operable
condition.
      (7)   All new wiring to be installed shall be in accordance with the
State Electrical Code that is in effect at the time the work is done.
      (8)   Any repair or replacement of existing wiring shall be done in
accordance with said Electrical Code when, in the opinion of the electrical
inspector, it is reasonably practical or otherwise vital to the health and
safety in order to eliminate a dangerous and hazardous condition.
   (J)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   Foundation.
         (a)   No footing shall be exposed.
         (b)   Beneath the building, there shall be firm ground, reasonably dry
ground, no soggy ground, no water standing and no water running under building
unless designed otherwise.
         (c)   There shall be sound footings, with adequate bearing.
         (d)   There shall be sound piers with no loose mortar.
         (e)   There shall be no piers in which a plumb line from top center
falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
         (f)   There shall be no isolated solid masonry piers exceeding in
height ten times the least dimension of the pier.
         (g)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers unless pressure treated
or equivalent and bearing on solid masonry raised one concrete block above
ground level.
         (h)   The space between the ground and the first floor of every
dwelling which is enclosed shall be underpinned with masonry to substantially
weather-proof and rodent-proof with adequate access opening of 18 by 24 inches
with a door. Curtain walls shall have foundation vents installed at a minimum
of one square foot for every 250 square feet of crawl space.
      (2)   Floors.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted or termite damaged joists and
sills.
         (b)   There shall be no fire damaged charred wood.
         (c)   There shall be no broken, overloaded or sagging girders.
         (d)   There shall be no broken, overloaded or sagging sills.
         (e)   Sills shall be reasonably level.
         (f)   Sills shall be properly and sufficiently supported.
         (g)   There shall not be broken joists.
         (h)   Any floor joists which show signs of weakness or disrepair shall
be properly replaced with lumber comparable to at least the same nominal
dimension and grade as the original joist.
          (i)   Flooring shall be weathertight without holes or excessive
cracks which permit air penetration into rooms.
         (j)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and not rotten, fire damaged
or worn through.
         (k)   There shall be no loose flooring or floor covering.
         (l)   The floor shall be reasonably level.
         (m)   When any new flooring is to be installed there shall be a
minimum of five-eighths inch plywood underlayment (or equivalent) or three-
quarters inch tongue and groove board flooring over the floor joints.
      (3)   Walls, exteriors.
         (a)   There shall be no wall in which the plumb line from top center
of studs falls outside the bottom plate at any point along the wall unless by
design.
         (b)   No studs shall be seriously rotted or termite damaged.
         (c)   There shall be no fire damaged charred wood.
         (d)   There shall be no broken structural members.
         (e)   All siding shall be weathertight, with no holes or excessive
cracks or rotted boards.
         (f)   There shall be no loose siding.
       (4)   Walls, interior.
         (a)   All finish shall be free of holes.
         (b)   There shall be no wall in which a plumb line from top center of
studs falls outside of bottom plate unless by design.
         (c)   There shall be no loose plaster, loose boards or loose wall
materials susceptible to falling.
         (d)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or similar highly
combustible wall finish in dwelling units.
         (e)   There shall be no seriously rotted, termite damaged or broken
studs.
         (f)   There shall be no fire damaged charred wood.
      (5)   Ceilings.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted, broken, sagging or fire
damaged joists or improperly supported ends.
         (b)   Any ceiling joists which show signs of disrepair shall be
properly replaced with lumber comparable to at least the same nominal dimension
and grade as the original joist.
         (c)   There shall be no holes.
         (d)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, sheet rock or other
ceiling finish susceptible to falling.
          (e)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or other similar highly
combustible finishes in dwelling units.
      (6)   Roofs.
         (a)   There shall be no seriously rotted, broken rafters or improperly
supported ends.
         (b)   There shall be no fire damaged charred wood.
         (c)   Rafters shall be properly braced and tied. Maximum spacing of
collar beams shall be five feet on center, or other approved method of bracing
roof may be used.
         (d)   Attics shall be ventilated. The net opening shall be at least 1/
150 of the attic floor space. Obstructions caused by screens and louvers must
be cut to 1/300 if 50% of the ventilation is in the upper portion of the attic.
Alternate methods as specified in Volume lb, Section 25 may be used.
         (e)   There shall be no loose or seriously rotted sheathing.
         (f)   There shall be no fire damaged charred sheathing.
         (g)   There shall be no loose roof covering, nor holes nor leaks.
         (h)   There shall be a minimum of Class “C” roof covering; except in
the number one First District, a Class “A” or “B” covering is required.
         (i)   There shall be proper metal flashing at walls or chimney.
       (7)   Porches, exterior stairs and steps.
         (a)   Floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set forth
above, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if providing drainage
of floors; floors need not be weathertight; ceiling height may be seven feet;
and attics shall be vented.
         (b)   Posts, railings and guards shall not be seriously rotted or
termite damaged and shall be sufficiently anchored.
         (c)   1.   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform located at least
36 inches above adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with railings not
less than 30 inches high. Pickets shall be installed on railings and hand
railings with no more than a six-inch spacing.
            2.   Handrails continuous on all open sides of stairs exceeding 36
inches in height leading to a platform, porch or terrace shall be installed at
least 30 inches high.
         (d)   Enclosed stairs exceeding a rise of 36 inches shall have at
least a single handrail.
      (8)   Interior stairs and steps.
         (a)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks
large enough to constitute an accidental hazard.
         (b)   Interior steps and stairs more than 36 inches of rise shall have
rails not less than 30 inches measured vertically from the nose of the treads
to top of the rail.
         (c)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
          (d)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
         (e)   There shall be no rotting, sagging or deteriorating supports.
         (f)   1.   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform and shall not
exceed eight and one-quarter inches in height; treads shall be at least one and
one-eighth inch thick and shall be securely fastened in position.
            2.   Every wood stair riser in excess of 36 inches in width shall
have an additional “stringer,” each “stringer” to be spaced not more than 30
inches apart. The minimum depth of treads shall be ten and one-quarter inches,
including the “nosing.”
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.06 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Fences and other accessory structures shall either be maintained in a
safe and substantial condition or demolished and removed.
   (B)   Exterior surfaces, not inherently resistant to deterioration, shall be
treated with protective coating, such as paint or other suitable preservative
and with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
   (C)   Any electrical, plumbing, heating or other utilities furnished with an
accessory structure shall be installed in accordance with applicable code
provisions and maintained in a safe condition.
   (D)   Every accessory structure shall be property maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and free from physical hazards and other matter detrimental
to the public health.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.07 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Building and structure.
      (1)   Exterior surfaces, not inherently resistant to deterioration, shall
be treated with a protective coating, such as paint or other suitable
preservative, with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Floors, walls, ceilings and fixtures shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Open areas. Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately
drained to protect buildings and structures and to prevent development of
stagnant water.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation.
   (D)   Garbage and refuse. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and
methods provided and used for the storage, handling and disposal of garbage and
refuse.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter and all of the minimum standards
shall be applicable to rooming houses and to every person who operates a
rooming house or who occupies or lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit
in any rooming house.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any rooming house
unless there is provided:
      (1)   Lavatory facilities in good working condition consisting of one
flush water closet, one washbasin and one bathtub or shower for every six
persons residing in a rooming house;
      (2)   Access from rooming unit to lavatory facilities without entering
another dwelling, rooming unit or non-conditioned area;
      (3)   Washbasin and bathtub or shower properly connected and supplied
with hot and cold running water;
      (4)   Lavatory not be located in unfinished basement;
      (5)   Walls, floors and ceilings be maintained in a sanitary condition;
      (6)   Disposal of all garbage in a prompt and sanitary condition;
      (7)   In rooming houses with fossil fuel heating systems exceeding
250,000 B.T.U., the furnace room shall be enclosed with material having at
least a one-hour fire protection rating. Install a smoke detector in every
furnace room; and
      (8)   In all public hallways within 15 feet of each rooming unit install
a smoke detector. Primary source of power for detectors shall be taken from the
house electrical current.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.09 OCCUPANT’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling unit or apartment shall:
   (A)   Keep the part of a dwelling unit or apartment which he or she occupies
and controls in a clean and sanitary condition;
   (B)   Keep all required plumbing and other fixtures in a clean and sanitary
condition and exercise reasonable care in the use and operation thereof;
   (C)   Be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests whenever said dwelling unit or apartment is the only one in the
residential building infested and the owner has provided a reasonably insect-
proof and adequate rodent-proof building;
   (D)   Dispose of all garbage and other refuse in an approved garbage
receptacle; when approved garbage receptacles are not provided by the landlord
or landlady, it shall be the responsibility of the occupant to provide adequate
approved garbage receptacles;
   (E)   Not place on the premises any material which causes a fire hazard or
otherwise endangers the health or safety of any occupants of such building; not
place in storage or on the premises any furniture, auto parts, junk equipment
or material which harbors insects, rodents or other pests;
   (F)   Not occupy any dwelling unit unless running water is provided to the
required plumbing fixtures;
   (G)   Not place within any structure for use therein, any oil, kerosene or
gas fired portable heater to be used as the primary source for heating or
cooking;
   (H)   Not place on the premises for the use thereon, any heating or cooking
unit which constitutes a fire hazard. If the occupant provides heating or
cooking equipment, the occupant shall be responsible for its proper
installation and maintenance;
   (I)   Not cause such damage to the dwelling unit or apartment let to him or
her as to make the same unfit for human habitation; and
   (J)   No occupant of a rooming house shall heat or cook food or permit the
heating or cooking of food within his or her rooming unit.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 ENFORCEMENT AGAINST OCCUPANT.
   Upon discovering a violation of §
153.09, the inspector shall have the power to order the correction of any such
violation within 48 hours from date of notice thereof; in the event that the
occupant fails to make such corrections, then the inspector shall set a hearing
pursuant to the procedures of §
153.14(C), and thereafter may again order the correction of any such violation
within 48 hours from the date of service of the order upon the occupant, or the
inspector may order the building to be vacated within a reasonable time. The
inspector may pursue any other civil or criminal action as he or she deems
reasonably necessary in order to effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.11 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any owner remains liable for violation of duties imposed upon him
or her by this chapter even though:
         (a)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupant; and
         (b)   The owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant the duty of
furnishing required equipment or of complying with this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   Whenever the owner of property has complied with the minimum
standards of this chapter for each dwelling or dwelling unit in accordance with
previous inspections and orders issued by the inspector, no further inspections
for violations herein shall be required for a period of two years from the date
of final inspection and approval except where, in the opinion of the inspector,
it is necessary in the interest of public health or safety of the residences or
where such violation constitutes a health and safety hazard which is inimical
to the general welfare of the citizens in the community.
         (b)   Provided, however, in instances where the owner or tenant who
was residing in a dwelling or dwelling unit at the time that final inspection
and approval was made quits the premises, then this division (A)(2) which does
not require further inspection for a period of two years shall no longer be
applicable with respect to such dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (B)   Owner’s responsibility for safety of occupant(s).
      (1)   In order to protect the health and safety of occupants of a
building, the owner shall, within 48 hours after being notified in writing,
repair any broken, burst, frozen or inoperable plumbing pipe or fixtures.
      (2)   In order to protect the life and safety of occupants of a building,
the owner shall, within 48 hours after being notified in writing, repair any
exposed or unsafe wiring.
      (3)   In order to protect the life and safety of occupants of a building,
the owner shall, within 48 hours after being notified in writing, repair or
replace any unsafe and/or dangerous cooking or heating equipment provided by
the owner.
      (4)   In order to protect the life and safety of occupants of a building,
the owner shall, within 48 hours after being notified in writing, repair or
replace fuel storage tanks and/or supply lines provided by the owner which are
leaking, improperly supported or dangerous.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.12 EMERGENCY CASES.
   (A)   In emergency cases where it reasonably appears there is immediate
danger to the life or safety of any person or to the safety of other property,
unless a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation or a dangerous accessory
structure is immediately repaired or demolished, the inspector shall order
demolition of said structure and the cost of such repair or demolition of said
structure shall be recovered and collected as is provided in §
153.14(E)(7).
   (B)   In emergency cases as cited above, the inspector shall have the power
immediately to cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building or
dwelling unit a placard with words which, in effect, provide notice that the
building or dwelling unit has been condemned and that occupancy for human
habitation is prohibited, and further setting forth the reasons therefor. The
employees of the Town Fire Department, Town Police Department, Town and County
Sheriff’s Department shall report to the inspector all buildings or structures
which are, or are suspected of being, unfit for human habitation or a dangerous
accessory structure.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.13 RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The inspector shall determine that a residential building is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any of the following conditions exist
in the building:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs seriously list, lean or buckle to
such extent as to render the building unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members showing 33% or more of damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering
showing 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs have improperly distributed loads, overloaded or
having insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
 
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair dangerous
to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in the town
or its environs;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Inadequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
endangering the health, safety or general welfare of the occupants or other
residents of the town or its environs; and/or
      (9)   Improper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required by
this chapter which constitute a health or a safety hazard.
   (B)   Irrespective of the above, a residential dwelling unit shall be
construed by the inspector to be unfit for human habitation, and he or she
shall so find, if such dwelling unit contains more than seven separate types of
violations of any of the minimum standards set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.14 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Initiation of preliminary investigation. The inspector shall initiate
a preliminary inspection of a dwelling unit or accessory building when a
petition is filed by one public authority (Town Administrator, Fire Marshal,
County Health Director, Town Zoning Administrator, Town Police Chief, chief
building inspector, or as defined); or a letter of complaint is filed by the
occupant or five residents of five different properties; or whenever it appears
to the inspector a basis of such investigation exists.
   (B)   Notice of complaint. If his or her preliminary investigation discloses
violation of the minimum standards, he or she shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner of and parties in interest of the dwelling unit, a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more
than 30 days after service of said complaint.
   (C)   Hearing. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one person signing a petition relating to such
dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give evidence
relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts
of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the inspector.
   (D)   Owner initiated inspection.
      (1)   Whenever a written request is filed with the inspector by an owner
or agent of a dwelling, the inspector shall inspect the dwelling to determine
its fitness for human habitation and provide both the owner and the tenant a
written report of the results of his or her inspection.
      (2)   When an owner or agent has caused a warrant to be issued for the
arrest of any tenant during whose tenancy the dwelling becomes unfit for human
habitation due to the tenant’s willful conduct or culpable negligence, it shall
be the duty of the inspector to assist and testify in the matter.
   (E)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the inspector shall in writing
determine whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation
due to deterioration or dilapidation. If the inspector determines that the
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall state
in writing his or her findings of fact in support of such determination. In
such case the inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and improve
the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90
days. Such orders shall further state that if the owner does not make the
necessary repairs to correct existing violations as specified in the order, the
inspector will submit a request to the Town Commissioners to adopt an ordinance
ordering the inspector to require the owner to take one of the following
actions:
         (a)   Vacate and close said building if repair, alteration or
improvement ordered would cost less than 50% of the present value of the
building;
         (b)   Demolish said building, if the repair, alteration or improvement
order would cost an amount equal to or in excess of 50% of the present value of
the building; or
         (c)   This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (2)   The inspector shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the
building for which an ordinance has been adopted by the Town Commissioners
ordering the owner to vacate and close or demolish said building a placard with
the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupancy of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Provided, however, if, within the time fixed by the inspector for
repairing, alteration or improvement of such building, the inspector finds
there has been substantial compliance with the provisions of the order or that
the owner has filed with the inspector a copy of a written contract with a
contractor to make such repairs, alterations or improvements as ordered, the
inspector may extend the time for compliance for an additional period not
exceeding 60 days.
      (4)   The inspector shall notify the water and sewer authorities of all
buildings found unfit for human habitation and, when said buildings become
vacant, utility service shall be discontinued until such time as there is
compliance with the order.
      (5)   Upon becoming vacant, any dwelling found unfit for human habitation
shall be posted by the inspector as described above.
      (6)   If the owner of any building which has been found unfit for human
habitation shall fail to comply with an order of the inspector issued pursuant
to this chapter, the inspector shall take one or more of the following actions
as necessary:
          (a)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging such owner with
violation of this chapter;
         (b)   Vacate and close said building, provided that an ordinance
ordering the inspector to effectual this action has been approved by the Town
Commissioners; or
         (c)   Cause such building to be repaired, altered, improved or
demolished, provided that an ordinance ordering the inspector to effectuate
this action has been approved by the Town Commissioners.
      (7)   The amount of the cost of such repair, alterations, improvements,
vacating and closing or demolition by the inspector shall be a lien against the
real property upon which such cost was incurred; said lien shall be filed, have
the same priority and be collected or foreclosed upon in the same manner as it
provided for assessments pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
      (8)   Failure on the party of any owner or party in interest to receive
or have served upon him or her any complaint, notice or order herein provided
for shall not affect or invalidate the proceedings with respect to any other
owner or party in interest or any other person, firm or corporation.
      (9)   The inspector is hereby authorized to fix reasonable value of any
building for the purpose of this section and such value shall be binding,
unless the owner protests such value in writing to the inspector within ten
days after receipt of an order. Typically the county tax value for the
structure, market value, current real estate appraisal or a combination thereof
may be used at the discretion of the inspector.
      (10)   A $100 inspection fee shall be charged for any type of courtesy
inspection requested for a certificate of compliance for the purpose of loan
closings.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.15 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or the agent of any owner to rent or
offer for rent as a dwelling any vacant structure or part thereof upon which an
order to repair, alter or improve, or to vacate and close, has been issued
without the owner or agent first filing application for and securing a
certificate of compliance from the inspector. The inspector shall issue a
certificate of compliance when, after examination and inspection, it is found
that the repairs, alterations and improvements have been made and that the
structure conforms with the provisions of this chapter. The owner or agent
requesting a certificate of compliance shall pay no fee for the first two
inspections required in which the owner or agent is seeking a certificate of
compliance; provided, however, the owner or agent shall pay a fee of $100 for
each subsequent re-inspection required.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.16 APPEAL AND PETITIONS.
   (A)   Appeal. An appeal to the Town Housing Appeal Board may be taken from
any decision or order of the inspector by any person aggrieved thereby or by
any officer of the town. Any appeal from the inspector to the Appeal Board
shall be taken within ten days and shall be taken by filing with the inspector
and with the Town Clerk a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon
which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of notice of appeal, the inspector
shall forthwith transmit to the Appeal Board all papers constituting the record
upon which the decision appealed from was made.
   (B)   Petition to superior court. The owner or any other person affected by
an order of the inspector shall have the right, within 30 days following
service of such order, to petition the superior court for a temporary
injunction restraining enforcement of such order and for a hearing and
determination of the validity thereof, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(t).
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.17 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND THE LIKE.
   Complaints, notices or orders issued by the inspector pursuant hereto shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail,
but, if the whereabouts of any person is unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of such
complaint, notice or order upon the person may be made by publishing the same
once a week for two successive weeks in a daily newspaper published in the
town, service being deemed completed upon the date of the last publication. A
copy of any notice, complaint or order served by publication shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the notice, complaint or order
on or before the date of the last publication.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.18 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall remove or permit the removal of any complaint, notice
or order posted in accordance with the provisions of §§
153.12 and
153.14.
   (B)   When the inspector finds that a building is unfit for human habitation
within the meaning of this chapter, and has notified the owner and the time
limit set by the inspector for the correction of defects and vacating the same
has expired, no person shall receive rentals, offer for rent or occupy said
building for any purpose.
   (C)   No person shall damage, mutilate or remove, nor shall any person
suffer, permit or cause to be damaged, mutilated or removed, any permanent
fixtures from any dwelling unit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building upon whom a notice,
complaint or order has been served, to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of said building, until the provisions of the notice,
complaint or order have been complied with, or until such owner shall furnish
to the transferee, lessee or mortgagee a true copy of any notice, complaint or
order issued by the inspector and concurrently give written notice to the
inspector of the intent to transfer, lease or mortgage as to whom the
transferee, lessee or mortgagee who had received actual constructive notice of
the existence of a notice, complaint or order shall be bound by the notice,
complaint or order as of date of the transfer, lease or mortgage without
service of further notice upon him or her.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, and the enforcement of
any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinance or laws.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.20 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town and environs shall prevail.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or fail
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the
inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the time specified in
the order, and each day that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply
with the order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
153.14, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
losing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   Any violation of §
153.15 by the owner or his or her agent shall subject the violator to a fine of
$50 a day or 30 days’ imprisonment for each day of occupancy of the dwelling or
dwelling unit. The issuance of a second citation for any violation that has not
been corrected shall be in the amount of $200 upon the date of issuance, $500
for the third citation and $500 thereafter. Any unpaid citations and
delinquency charges shall be cumulative, and shall subject the violator to a
possible civil penalty to be recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt.
The citations may be delivered in person to the violator(s) or the citation may
be mailed, certified return receipt requested. The citations shall direct the
violator to make payment at the town within 15 days of the date of the citation
or alternatively pay the citation by mail. If the violator does not make such
payment or does not mail the citation and payment within 15 days from the date
of issuance, a delinquency charge of $10 shall be added to the amount shown on
the citation or criminal summons may be filed if the citation and delinquency
charge is not paid within 15 days from the date of the delinquency. Further,
the citation shall state that the violation is a continuing violation, and
additional citations may be issued. Any owner or rental agent so violating §
153.15 by leasing a dwelling or dwelling unit before obtaining a certificate of
compliance shall be subject to immediate prosecution in the state’s General
Court of Justice, District Court, Criminal Division. Accordingly, the inspector
shall obtain a warrant for the arrest of anyone in violation of the certificate
of compliance provisions as set forth herein.
(Ord. 96, passed 3-18-2019)
CHAPTER 154: NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
Section
   
154.01   Title; purpose; findings; scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Duties and responsibilities of owner
   
154.04   Duties and responsibilities of occupant
   
154.05   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
154.06   Conflicts with other provisions; amendments
   
154.07   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
154.08   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance
   
154.09   Unsafe buildings shall be condemned by the inspector
   
154.10   Removal of condemnation notice unlawful
   
154.11   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
154.12   Service of written notice or order of inspector
   
154.13   Appeal of order of inspector
   
154.14   Failure to comply with order of inspector
   
154.15   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
154.16   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
154.17   Demolition of nonresidential buildings by owner
   
154.18   Administration
   
154.19   Violation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 TITLE; PURPOSE; FINDINGS; SCOPE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Nonresidential Building
Maintenance Standards” for the town, and may be cited as such, and will be
referred to hereinafter as “this chapter.”
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of the provision of this chapter to provide
a just, equitable and practicable method whereby nonresidential buildings and
premises which, from any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals,
property, safety or welfare of the general public or their occupants, diminish
property values or detract excessively from the appropriate appearance of the
area in which they are located, may be required to be repaired, closed, vacated
or demolished. The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with and in
addition to any other remedy provided by law, including the current editions of
standard codes adopted by the town.
   (C)   Findings; authority.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-174, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town nonresidential buildings and premises which are unsafe
and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire, or because of
bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay,
unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
      (2)   It addition, it hereby found and declared that there exist in the
town nonresidential buildings and premises which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for the nonresidential buildings and premises
fitness and established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare.
Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of nonresidential buildings and premises which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
   (D)   Scope; jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
existing nonresidential buildings and premises and hereafter to construction
within the town limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) as now or
hereafter established, including the attached map areas attached to the
ordinance codified in this chapter.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future tense. Words used in the
singular shall include the plural and words used in the plural shall include
the singular. The words SHALL and WILL always indicate mandatory. The words
SHOULD and MAY always indicate optional.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of the Town of Oakboro, North
Carolina, as created and appointed by the Town Commissioners of said town.
    BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term “or part thereof.”
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principle building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principle
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD. (See also NUISANCE.) Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or chance of fire to a greater
degree that reasonable for the conduct of the nonresidential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT and/or PARCEL.
   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Town Commissioners (hereinafter referred to as “the
inspector”).
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the state or the ordinances of the town;
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety, whether in a building, on the premises
of a building, or a part of a building, or upon an occupied lot;
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists;
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a nonresidential
building and/or premises or part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building and/or premises are actually
occupied or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, corporation and/or individual.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All types of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
piles, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with H.V.A.C.
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the building or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for nonresidential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the town or public utility and available for public use for the disposal of
sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
minerals matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure of structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
   TOWN COMMISSIONERS. The Town Commissioners of the Town of Oakboro, North
Carolina.
   USE. Includes the terms arranged, designed and/or intended for a use,
activity and/or purpose.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and the responsibility of the owner to maintain all
nonresidential buildings and premises in accordance with all standards for
nonresidential buildings and premises fitness as stated in §§
154.07 and
154.08.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the nonresidential
use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which would render
any parts of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which would
obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required, or from
maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary condition;
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control;
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same;
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with this code of ordinances;
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curbs and gutters located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the nonresidential
use under the control of the occupant; and
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building, or to the premises, shall be complied
with whether the structure of the building or premises is occupied or vacant.
   (B)   All unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by
their owners to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of
nuisance conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.06 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Conflicts with other provisions.
      (1)   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter
is found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail.
      (2)   The State Building Code, current edition, shall serve as the
standard for all alterations, repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and
other acts of building made or required pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Amendments. The Town Commissioners may from time to time amend,
supplement or change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such
amendment shall be by ordinance of the Town Commissioners.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.07 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own
a building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life.
      (2)   The Town Commissioners have determined that unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town, that such unsafe and especially dangerous
buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the owners of such unsafe
and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall immediately remedy the
unsafe, dangerous or unlawful conditions or demolish such buildings or
structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the inspector if the inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exist in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or coverings which
show 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities to such
extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the occupants or
other residents of the jurisdiction;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard;
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purpose of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been “cut off” because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving flow of potable water to the tap;
      (11)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life; and
      (12)   Any abandoned nonresidential building which is found to be a
health or safety hazard by the inspector as a result of the attraction of
insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent used by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to the conditions enumerated in divisions (B)(1) through
(B)(12) above, any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the
inspector shall determine that a nonresidential building or structure is unsafe
if he or she finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any
five or more of the following enumerated standards of the building and premises
fitness. Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular building and premises, then that
building and premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
      (1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash or rubbish which creates health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
      (2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
      (4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around.
      (5)   Building and premises surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
      (6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
property secured or which can create a hazard, such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
      (7)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment and shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
      (8)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair and free of defects.
      (9)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated
and painted.
      (10)   Gutters and downspouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
      (11)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained
in a state of good repair.
      (12)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
      (13)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, stills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged and shall not have holes or cracks which might not
admit rodents.
      (14)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purposed use.
      (15)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (16)   Interior steps, railings, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
      (17)   (a)   Where a wall or a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building, said wall must have all doors, vents or
other similar openings closed with material of a type comprising the wall
unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusion or
loose material shall be in the wall.
         (b)   The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or bricked so as not
to detract from the aesthetics and value of adjacent property and weather-
proofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
      (18)   All plumbing fixtures and piles shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (19)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
      (20)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
      (21)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
      (22)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and be free from rotten wood, broken joints or broken or loose
mullions.
      (23)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, by falling or shattering.
      (24)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows unless specifically approved by the inspector for enclosure.
      (25)   All yards and premises shall be properly graded and maintained so
as to obtain through drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant
water.
       (26)   Unless expressly authorized by the vote of the Town
Commissioners, no items shall be located in front of the building within, up to
and including the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In any case where the inspector determines that a nonresidential
building and/or premises fails to fully comply with one or more but less than
five of the standards of nonresidential buildings and premises fitness set
forth in §
154.07(C) such building and/or premises shall not be found to be unsafe and
shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this
chapter for unsafe buildings and premises.
   (B)   Each such failure of noncompliance, however, shall constitute a
violation of the terms of this chapter and shall be subject the violator to the
penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or criminal or both, of §
154.99.
   (C)   In such case, the inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in
§
154.12.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 UNSAFE BUILDINGS SHALL BE CONDEMNED BY THE INSPECTOR.
   If a building or structure shall appear to the inspector to be especially
dangerous to life and unsafe under §
154.07, the inspector shall: make a written finding that the building or
structure appears to be unsafe and is condemned; and affix and condemnation
notice of the dangerous character or conditions of the building or structure to
a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building or structure.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.10 REMOVAL OF CONDEMNATION NOTICE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove a condemnation notice from a
building or structure after such condemnation notice has been affixed to it by
the inspector pursuant to the provisions of §
154.09.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   If a building or structure has been condemned by the inspector as
unsafe pursuant to §
154.09, the inspector shall serve the owner with a written complaint and notice
of hearing, which notice shall state that:
      (1)   The building or structure is condemned due to its condition that
appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or appears to be dangerous to
life, health or other property and that it is held to be unsafe; and
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the inspector at a designated place
and time, which time shall be not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the date of such notice, and that at such hearing the owner shall be
entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present arguments and
evidence pertaining to the matter.
   (B)   (1)   Following the hearing, the inspector may issue such order to
repair, close or vacate or demolish the building or structure as the inspector
deems to be appropriate under the existing conditions.
      (2)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the clerk of the county superior court, to be indexed and cross-
indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of state statutes. The
inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the
owner of the building or structure at the time of filing in accordance with
G.S. § 160A-428, as applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any
order issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the inspector shall direct
the clerk of superior court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
      (3)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in this
section, the inspector shall find that the building or structure is in an
unsafe condition, a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life,
health or other property, the inspector shall issue an order in writing,
directed to the owner or owners of such building or structure, directing the
owner or owners to remedy the defective condition by repairing, closing,
vacating or demolishing the building or structure or taking other necessary
steps within such period as the inspector may prescribe, which period may not
be less than 60 days from the service of the order; provided, that where the
inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life, health or other
property, the order may require that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.12 SERVICE OF WRITTEN NOTICE OR ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   In any case where this chapter requires service of a written notice or order
by the inspector, such notice or order shall be made in the following manner.
   (A)   The written notice or order shall be served upon each owner by mailing
the same by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner’s last known address or by personal service of the notice or order upon
each owner.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of an owner are unknown and cannot after
due diligence be discovered, the notice or order shall be considered properly
and adequately served upon such owner if a copy thereof is posted on the
outside of the building or structure in question at least ten days prior to the
hearing, if a hearing is require, and a notice of the hearing published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the jurisdiction at least once not
later than one week prior to the hearing.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.13 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   Any owner who has received and order under §
154.12 may appeal from the order of the Town Commissioners by giving notice of
appealing in writing to the inspector and the Town Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Town
Commissioners within the prescribed time, the order of the inspector shall be
final. The Town Commissioners shall hear appeals within a reasonable time after
receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke the
order.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.14 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a building or structure to fail to
comply with an order issued pursuant to §
154.12 from which no appeal has been taken or fail to comply with an order of
the Town Commissioners following an appeal unless the owner shall, within ten
days following issuance of the order by the Town Commissioners, appeal from
that order as by law provided.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.15 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   In the event of such failure to comply, in addition to the penalties,
remedies and enforcement procedures contained in any town ordinance or §
154.99, the inspector may cause such building and premises to be repaired,
closed vacated or demolished as appears appropriate.
   (B)   The inspector, however, shall not take such action until the Town
Commissioners shall have by ordinance ordered the inspector to proceed with
such action with respect to the particular property or properties which the
inspector shall have found to be unsafe or not in compliance with all standards
of nonresidential building and premises fitness and which property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a building until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with this chapter.
The ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall be recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index.
   (C)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal of demolition by the inspector, shall be a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien
shall be filed, have the same priority and be collected as a lien for special
assessments provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the building is
removed or demolished by the inspector, he or she shall sell the materials of
the building, and the personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or
attached to the building, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in
the superior court by the inspector, shall secure in a manner directed by the
court and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order of the decree of the court.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.16 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a building, the
inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such
occupant. The action to vacate the building shall be in the nature of a summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties
defendant any person occupying such building. The clerk of superior court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the inspector produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town
Commissioners pursuant to this section authorizing the inspector to proceed to
vacate the occupied building, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that
the premises be vacated and that all persons removed. The judgment ordering
that the building be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the
judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any
judgment entered hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. §
7A-228, and the execution of such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. §
7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a building who is a tenant of the
owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to
this section unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days
before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Town
Commissioners have ordered the inspector to proceed the exercise his or her
duties under this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
building.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.17 DEMOLITION OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   Where a nonresidential building is under the jurisdiction of this chapter,
the building may be demolished by the owner, provided that the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner obtained a demolition permit from the County Building
Inspections Department;
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections be properly
closed and disconnected;
   (C)   All debris from the building be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building;
   (D)   The lot be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must backfill the lot with 12
inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade;
and
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of the adjacent
property and weather-proofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 154.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Office of nonresidential building maintenance standards inspector
created; power and duties.
      (1)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provision of
this chapter the office of nonresidential building maintenance standards
inspector, (herein called “inspector”), is hereby created.
      (2)   The inspector shall be appointed by the Town Commissioners, shall
take and subscribe to the oath of office administered by the Town Clerk and
shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provision of this chapter, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
         (a)   To investigate the nonresidential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purposes of carrying out the objectives of this chapter
with respect to such nonresidential buildings;
         (b)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses
and receive evidence;
         (c)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose
of making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
         (d)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   For the purposes of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all nonresidential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every nonresidential building, or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a nonresidential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary
or otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in nonresidential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he or
she has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular
structure or premises.
   (C)   Defects in buildings to be corrected.
      (1)   When the inspector finds any defects in a nonresidential building,
or finds that a building has not been constructed in accordance with the
applicable state and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is
dangerous or contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous
conditions or failure to comply with law.
      (2)   The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy the defects,
hazardous conditions or violations of the law in the property he or she owns.
Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day of
violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.19 VIOLATION.
   (A)   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building and premises to fail, neglect or refused to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to §
154.12, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvements or its vacating and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to other penalties and remedies provided by this chapter,
violation of this chapter shall constitute either a misdemeanor punishable by
fine or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or at the election
of the town, shall subject the offender to civil penalties, remedies and
enforcement procedures contained in this chapter or state statutes.
(Ord. 97, passed 3-18-2019)
CHAPTER 155: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
Article 1. General Provisions
Division 1. Preface
110   Short Title
111   Effective Date
112   Authority
113   Applicability and Jurisdiction
114   Required Conformance to Article Provisions
115   Purpose and Intent
116   Severability
Division 2. Other Laws and Prior Approvals
120   Consistency with Adopted Plans
121   Relationship to Other Laws
122   Conflicting Provisions
123   Transitional Provisions
124   Regulatory Codes Adopted by Reference
125   Permit Choice
Division 3. Vested Rights
130   Purpose and Intent
131   Vested Rights Defined
132   Site-Specific Vesting Plan Defined
133   Establishment of a Zoning Vested Right
134   Process to Claim Vested Right
135   Effect of a Vested Right
136   Duration
137   Termination
138   Limitations
Article 2. Administrative Bodies
Division 1. General Requirements for All Review Authorities
210   Oath of Office Required
211   Open Meetings
212   Attendance
213   Minutes and Rules of Procedure
214   Conflict of Interest
Division 2. Town Board of Commissioners
220   Powers and Duties
Division 3. Planning Board
230   Establishment
231   Appointment and Terms
232   Board Officers
233   Powers and Duties of Board
234   Meetings and Quorum
235   Voting
Division 4. Board of Adjustment
240   Establishment
241   Appointment and Terms
242   Board Officers
243   Powers and Duties of Board
244   Meetings and Quorum
245   Voting
Division 5. Historic Preservation Commission
250   Establishment
251   Appointment and Terms
252   Commission Officers
253   Powers and Duties of Commission
254   Meetings and Quorum
255   Voting
Division 6. Development Review Committee
260   Establishment
261   Duties
262   Conflicts of Interest
Division 7. Town Planner
270   Powers and Duties
271   Conflict of Interest
Article 3. Procedures and Permits
Division 1.
Table 1. Summary of Procedures
Division 2. Standard Review Procedures
320   Pre-Application Conference
321   Neighborhood Meeting
322   Application Filing and Acceptance
323   Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action
324   Public Notices
325   Public Meetings and Hearings
326   Conditions of Approval
327   Written Notice of Decision
328   Effect of Development Approval
329   Phased Development
329.1   Modification, Continuance or Withdrawal
329.2   Reconsideration
Division 3. Specific Development Applications
3300   Administrative Modifications
3301   Appeals
3302   Building Permit
3302.1   Certificate of Appropriateness
3303   Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate
3304   Comprehensive Plan
3305   Conservation Subdivision
3306   Determinations and Interpretations
3307   Development Agreement
3308   Expedited and Exempt Subdivisions
3309   Final Plat
3309.1   Grading Permit
3310   Major Subdivision
3311   Minor Subdivision
3312   Mixed Use Development
3313   Planned Unit Development
3314   Reasonable Accommodation
3315   Rezoning/Map Amendment
3316   Conditional District Map Amendments
3317   Site Plan
3318   Special Use Permit
3319   Temporary Use Permit
3320   Text Amendment
3321   Variance
3322   Vested Rights Certificate
3323   Zoning Compliance Certificate
3324   Floodplain Development Permit
Article 4. Zoning Districts
Division 1. Generally
410   Districts Distinguished
411   Districts Established
412   Generally Applicable Dimensional Standards
413   Allowable Encroachments
Division 2. Residential Zoning Districts
420   Residential Agricultural-District (RA)
421   Low Density Single-Family Residential District (R-20)
422   Low to Medium Density Single-Family Residential District (R-15)
423   Medium to High Density Residential District (R-9)
424   High Density Residential (R-9M)
Division 3. Nonresidential Zoning Districts
430   Office and Institutional District (OI)
431   Neighborhood Business District (NB)
432   Central Business District (CB)
433   Highway Business (HB)
434   Light Industrial District (LI)
435   Manufacturing and Industrial District (I)
Division 4. Conditional Zoning Districts
440   Conditional Districts Established
Division 5. Floating Districts: Planned Unit Development (PUD) and Mixed Use
   Development (MUD) Districts
Part 1. Planned Unit Developments
450   Purpose and Intent
451   General Standards for All Planned Unit Developments
452   Compliance with Subdivision Standards
453   Site Plan Review
454   Densities/Intensities
455   Dimensional Standards
456   Development Standards
457   Consistency with Adopted Policy Guidance
458   Compatibility with Surrounding Areas
459   Development Phasing Plan
459.1   Conversion Schedule
459.2   On-Site Public Facilities
459.3   Allowable Uses
459.4   Planned Unit Development Terms and Conditions
459.5   Amendments to Approved Master Plan
Part 2. Mixed Use Developments
459.10   Purpose
459.11   Procedures and Submission Requirements
459.12   Compliance with Subdivision Standards
459.13   Land Use Composition and Permitted Uses
459.14   Minimum Land Area
459.15   Design Standard Flexibility
459.16   Professional Design Team Required
459.17   Modification of Approved Master Plan
459.18   Sign Standards
459.19   Design Principles
Division 6. Overlay Zoning District(s)
460   Intent
461   Historic District Established; Boundaries; Permitted Uses
462   Applications for Certificates of Appropriateness
463   Review Criteria for Certificates of Appropriateness
464   Minor Works
465   Commission Has No Jurisdiction Over the Interior of Buildings
466   Maintenance and Repair Permitted
467   Delay in Demolition of Landmarks and Buildings in the Historic District
Division 7. Official Zoning Map
470   Generally
471   Incorporated by Reference
472   Determination of Boundaries
473   Revision
Article 5. Use Regulations
Division 1. Uses Distinguished
510   Generally
511   Use Types
512   Developments with Multiple Principal Uses
513   Procedure for Classification of Unlisted Uses
Division 2. Principal Uses
520   Generally
521   Uses Permitted by Right
522   Uses Permitted by Special Use Permit
523   Uses Requiring Rezoning to a Conditional Zoning District
524   Allowed in a Planned Unit Development District
525   Uses Not Permitted
526   Use Standards
527   Principal Uses Table
Division 3. Use Standards
530   Agricultural Uses
531   Residential Uses
532   Institutional Uses
533   Commercial Uses
534   Industrial Uses
Division 4. Accessory Uses
540   Purpose
541   Procedure for Establishment
542   General Standards for All Accessory Uses and Structures
543   Table of Common Accessory Uses
544   Specific Standards for Common Accessory Uses
Division 5. Temporary Uses
550   Purpose
551   Applicability
552   General Standards for Temporary Uses and Structures
Division 6. Prohibited Uses
560   Prohibited Everywhere
561   Prohibited by Overlay District Standards
Article 6. Development Standards
Division 1. Access and Circulation
610   Site Access and On-Site Circulation
611   Accessibility for the Handicapped
Division 2. Design Standards
620   Commercial Building Design Standards
621   Multi-Family Design Standards
622   Site Design Standards
Division 3. Exterior Lighting
630   Outdoor Lighting Standards
631   Streetlights
632   Outdoor Lighting
Division 4. Fences and Walls
640   Purpose and Intent
641   Applicability
642   Exemptions
643   Locational Standards
644   Maximum Height
645   Wind Loading
646   Materials
647   Maintenance
Division 5. Landscaping and Screening
650   Landscaping
651   Screening
652   Planting Flexibility
Division 6. Open Space Set-Aside
660   Purpose and Intent
661   Applicability
662   Exemptions
663   Minimum Open Space Set-Aside Requirements
664   Open Space Set-Aside Configuration
665   Ownership of Open Space Set-Asides
666   Maintenance of Open Space Set-Asides
667   Payments in Lieu of Provision or Dedication
Division 7. Off-Street Parking and Loading
670   Off-Street Parking and Loading
Division 8. Signage
680   Intent
680.1   Sign content
681   Applicability
682   Signs Exempt from Permit Requirements
683   Prohibited Sign Types
684   General Requirements for All Signage
685   Signs in Residential Districts
686   Signs in Nonresidential and Planned Unit Development Districts
687   Electronic Message Boards
688   Unified Sign Plan; Requirements; Enforcement
689   Existing Signs Not Conforming to Unified Sign Plan
689.1   Temporary Signs
689.2   Political Signs
689.3   Severability
Division 9. Solid Waste and Recycling Collection
690   Collection of Solid Waste and Recyclables
Division 10. Transportation Impact Analysis
6100   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) Submittal Requirement
Division 11. Soil Erosion, Sedimentation Control and Stormwater Management
6110   Sedimentation, Erosion Control and Stormwater Management
Division 12. Mixed Use Development Standards
6120   Mandatory Design Standards
6121   Blocks, Buildings and Street Networks
6122   Block Design
6123   Site Design for Multiple Building Developments
6124   Street Networks
6125   Pedestrian Passthrough Design
6126   Required Public Amenities
6127   Optional Design Guidelines
6128   MUD/PUD Residential
6129   Conservation Subdivision Residential Standards
Article 7. Subdivisions
Division 1. Introductory Provisions
710   Intent
711   Authority
712   Applicability
713   Penalties for Transferring Lots in Unapproved Subdivisions
714   Subdivisions Distinguished
Division 2. Subdivision Design Standards
720   Intent
721   Applicability of Lot Design Standards
722   Lot Size Standards
723   Lot and Block Arrangement
724   Flag Lots
725   Reverse Frontage Residential Lots
Division 3. Streets and Sidewalks
730   Roads
731   Curb and Gutter Standards
732   Sidewalks
Division 4. Open Space
740   Open Space
741   Dedication of Public Land
742   Trails and Shared Use Paths
Division 5. Utilities and Infrastructure
750   Water and Sewer
751   Other Utilities
752   Stormwater
Division 6. Performance Guarantees
760   Generally
761   Duration
762   Extension
763   Release
764   Amount
Division 7. Owners’ Associations
770   Required Restrictive Covenants and Review by Town
Division 8. Conservation Subdivisions
780   Intent
781   Purpose
782   Applicability and Compliance
783   Definitions
784   Open Space Standards
785   Application Procedure and Approval Process
786   Existing Site Features/Site Analysis Map Standards
787   Concept Plan
788   Yield Plan
789   Open Space Development Sketch Plan (the “Sketch Plan”)
789.1   Performance Standards
789.2   Ownership and Maintenance of Open Space and Common Facilities
789.3   Evaluation Criteria
Division 9. Plat Certificates
790   Certificate of Survey and Accuracy
791   Professional Land Surveyor’s Certificate
792   Certificate of Flood Zone Information
793   Certificate of Ownership, Maintenance and Dedication
794   State Department of Transportation Division of Highways Certificate
795   Road Maintenance Statement
796   Certification of Approval of a Final Plat
797   Review Officer’s Certification
798   Register of Deeds Certification
799   Acceptance of Offer of Dedication
799.1   Subdivision Road Disclosure Statement
799.2   Certificate of Approval of Preliminary Plat
799.3   Certificate of Approval of Exempt or Expedited Plat
Article 8. Nonconformities
Division 1. General Requirements
810   Nonconformities, Generally
Division 2. Nonconforming Lots of Record
820   Existing Lots of Insufficient Size
Division 3. Nonconforming Signs
830   Nonconforming Signs
Division 4. Nonconforming Structures
840   Applicability
841   Continuation and Replacement
842   Alteration and Expansion
843   Cessation
Division 5. Nonconforming Uses
850   Nonconforming Uses
Article 9. Enforcement
Division 1. Generally
910   Purpose
911   Compliance Required
912   Statutes of Limitation
Division 2. Description of Violations
920   Types of Violations
Division 3. Enforcement Procedure
930   Responsible Persons
931   Enforcement Responsibilities
932   Enforcement Procedures
Division 4. Remedies
940   Civil Penalties
941   Denial of Permit or Certificate
942   Conditional Approval
943   Stop Work Orders
944   Revocation of Permits
945   Reserved
946   Injunctive Relief
947   Order of Abatement
948   Equitable Remedy
949   State and Common Law Remedies
949.1   Enforcement of Specific Environmental Regulations
Division 5. Assessment of Civil Penalties
950   Amount of Civil Penalties
951   Procedure Generally
952   Continuing Violation
953   Demand for Payment
954   Nonpayment
Article 10. Measurement and Definitions
Division 1. Rules of Language Construction
1010   Meanings and Intent
1011   Headings, Illustrations and Text
1012   Time-Related Language
1013   References
1014   Authority
1015   Terminology
1016   Oath
Division 2. Rules of Measurement
1020   Purpose
1021   Measurement Generally
1022   Lot Dimensions
1023   Density
1024   Setbacks
1025   Lot Coverage
1026   Height
1027   Slope and Elevation
1028   Parking Space Computation
1029   Signage Measurement
1029.1   Landscaping Size Computation
1029.2   Fence and Wall Height
1029.3   Exterior Lighting Measurement
Division 3. Definitions
1030   Defined Terms
Article 11. Appendix
Division 1. Information Required with Sketch Plans, Site Plans and Subdivisions
Division 2. Recommended Plants List
Division 3. Zoning Map
Division 4. Model Language for Declaration of Restrictive Covenants
Tables and Figures
Table 1 - Summary of Procedures
Table 2 - Public Notice and Scheduling
Table 3 - Required Certificates
Table 4 - Section Numbers and Titles of Required Design Standards
Table 5 - Zoning Districts Established
Table 6 - Allowable Encroachments into Setbacks
Table 7 - Mandatory Design Standards for Mixed Use Developments
Table 8 - Principal Uses
Table 9 - Common Accessory Uses
Table 10 - Sight Distance Requirements
Table 11 - Light Levels (in Foot-Candles)
Table 12 - Buffer Applications
Table 13 - Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Table 14 - Dimensional Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots
Table 15 - Sign Standards for Lots in Residential Districts
Table 16 - Sign Standards for Lots in Nonresidential and Planned Unit
Development Districts
Table 17 - Mandatory Design Standards
Table 18 - Optional Design Standards
Table 19 - Maximum Block Sizes, Dead End Street Lengths
Table 20 - Development Densities for Conservation Subdivisions
Table 21 - Plat Certificates
Table 22 - Defined Terms
Table 23 - Suggested Plant Materials List - Trees and Shrubs
Figures
Figure 1 - Exempt Subdivision
Figure 2 - Flow Chart Variance
Figure 3 - Typical Development in RA
Figure 4 - Typical Development in RA
Figure 5 - Typical Development in RA
Figure 6 - Typical Development in RA
Figure 7 - Typical Development in R-20
Figure 8 - Typical Development in R-20
Figure 9 - Typical Development in R-15
Figure 10 - Typical Development in R-15
Figure 11 - Typical Development in R-15
Figure 12 - Typical Development in R-9
Figure 13 - Typical Development in R-9
Figure 14 - Typical Development in R-9
Figure 15 - Typical Development in R-9M
Figure 16 - Typical Development in R-9M
Figure 17 - Typical Development in OI
Figure 18 - Typical Development in OI
Figure 19 - Typical Development in NB
Figure 20 - Typical Development in NB
Figure 21 - Typical Development in NB
Figure 22 - Typical Development in NB
Figure 23 - Typical development in CB
Figure 24 - Typical Development in CB
Figure 25 - Typical Development in CB
Figure 26 - Typical Development in HB
Figure 27 - Typical Development in HB
Figure 28 - Typical Development in HB
Figure 29 - Typical Development in LI
Figure 30 - Typical Development in LI
Figure 31 - Typical Development in I
Figure 32 - Typical Development in I
Figure 33 - Lot Access
Figure 34 - Driveway Configuration
Figure 35 - Sight Distance Triangle
Figure 36 - On-Site Pedestrian Walkways
Figure 37 - Outparcel Development
Figure 38 - Parking Lot Connection
Figure 39 - Parking Placement
Figure 40 - Rooftop Screening
Figure 41 - Building Orientation
Figure 42 - Primary Building Entrances
Figure 43 - Commercial Building Materials
Figure 44 - Commercial Building Articulation
Figure 45 - Commercial Transparency
Figure 46 - Multi-Family Building Orientation
Figure 47 - Multi-Family Building Facades
Figure 48 - Multi-Family Building Massing
Figure 49 - Multi-Family Facade Articulation
Figure 50 - Multi-Family Building Height
Figure 51 - Multi-Family Building Materials
Figure 52 - Plant Material Specifications
Figure 53 - Parking Lot Landscaping
Figure 54 - Perimeter Buffer Configurations
Figure 55 - Streetscape Buffer Configuration
Figure 56 - Screening Methods
Figure 57 - Open Space Set-Aside Configuration
Figure 58 - Bicycle Parking
Figure 59 - Off-Street Loading
Figure 60 - Sign Types
Figure 61 - Solid Waste Dumpster Enclosures
Figure 62 - Example of an Acceptable Block Pattern
Figure 63 - Example of Block Standards
Figure 64 - Buildings Framing an Entrance
Figure 65 - Buildings Framing a Space
Figure 66 - Buildings Oriented Toward a Spine Street
Figure 67 - Guide to Driveway Length
Figure 68 - Illustration of an Entry Drive
Figure 69 - Pedestrian Crossing
Figure 70 - Curb Extensions
Figure 71 - Pedestrian Pass Through
Figure 72 - Pedestrian Plaza
Figure 73 - Outdoor “Room”
Figure 74 - Townhouses Meeting the Standards of this Section
Figure 75 - Separations
Figure 76 - Lot Measurements
Figure 77 - Lot Lines
Figure 78 - Lot Types
Figure 79 - Setbacks
Figure 80 - Height
Figure 81 - Sign Measurement
Figure 82 - Sign Height
Figure 83 - Landscaping Calculation
Figure 84 - Fence and Wall Height
Figure 85 - Conservation Subdivision
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is derived from the Unified Development Ordinance, being Ord.
passed 7-1-2022 and amendments thereto, including Ord. 22-, passed 6-20-2020;
the numbering of this chapter has been kept consistent with the original
ordinance, by request.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
DIVISION 1. PREFACE
§ 110 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this appendix shall be known as and may be cited
as the “Oakboro Unified Development Ordinance,” and may be referred to as “the
UDO” or “this ordinance.”
§ 111 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect on July 1, 2022, and
repeals and replaces any prior version of the town’s zoning, subdivision and
historic preservation ordinances.
§ 112 AUTHORITY.
   This ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority contained in G.S. Chapter
1600.
§ 113 APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This ordinance shall be effective throughout the town’s planning
jurisdiction.
   (A)   Where applied. The standards in this ordinance apply to all lands
within the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction, as identified on the
official zoning map.
   (B)   No development until compliance with this ordinance.
      (1)   No land developed. Unless exempted, no land shall be developed
without compliance with this ordinance and all other applicable county, state
and federal regulations.
      (2)   No grading or excavation. Unless exempted, no land shall be
subjected to substantial clearing, grading, filling or excavated without
compliance with this ordinance and all other applicable town, county, state and
federal regulations.
      (3)   No use or occupancy. No person shall use or occupy any land or
buildings or authorize or permit the use or occupancy of land or buildings
under his or her control, except in accordance with this ordinance.
      (4)   No construction or alteration. No building, or portion thereof,
shall be erected, used, moved or altered except in conformity with the
regulations specified for the zoning district in which it is located and all
other applicable provisions of this ordinance.
      (5)   No improvement to subdivided land. Improvements to subdivided land
shall not be undertaken until approval of a preliminary plat for all or the
active phase of a major subdivision or a minor subdivision approval for all or
the active phase of a minor subdivision.
      (6)   No sale or transfer. Except for lots within an exempt subdivision,
no lots in a subdivision may be sold or titles to land transferred as part of a
transfer plat until all the requirements of this ordinance have been met,
except as authorized by G.S. §§ 1600-801 et seq.
   (C)   Application to governmental units. Except where otherwise stated, the
provisions of this ordinance shall apply to:
      (1)   Development by the town or county or its agencies or departments;
      (2)   Development of buildings by the state, public colleges or
universities or other political subdivisions of the state, in accordance with
state statutes; and
      (3)   Development owned or held in tenancy by the government of the
United States, its agencies, departments or corporate services, to the full
extent permitted by law.
§ 114 REQUIRED CONFORMANCE TO ARTICLE PROVISIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this ordinance, no land or
structure shall be used or occupied, and no excavation, removal of soil,
clearing of a site or placing of fill shall take place on lands contemplated
for development, and no structure, or part of a structure, shall be
constructed, erected, altered or moved, except in compliance with all of the
applicable provisions of this ordinance.
§ 115 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Declaration of necessity. In order to protect and promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the town and its planning jurisdiction, this
ordinance is adopted by the Town Board of Commissioners to regulate and
restrict by means of zoning regulations the height, number of stories and size
of buildings and other structures; the percentage of lots that may be occupied;
the size and availability of yards, courts and other open spaces; the density
of population; and the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
trade, industry, residence and other purposes.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulations set forth in this ordinance
shall be: to accomplish compatible development of the land within the planning
jurisdiction of the town in a manner which will best promote the health, safety
and general welfare; to promote efficiency, energy conservation and economy in
development; to make adequate provisions for traffic; to secure safety from
fire, flooding, panic and other hazards; to provide for adequate light and air;
to prevent overcrowding of land; to avoid inappropriate concentration of
population; to facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, public
water, sewerage, schools and other public requirements; to promote desirable
living conditions and the stability of neighborhoods; and to achieve other
purposes in accordance with the comprehensive plan and development policies for
the town’s planning jurisdiction.
§ 116 SEVERABILITY.
   The legislative intent of the Town Board of Commissioners in adopting this
ordinance is that all provisions shall regulate development in accordance with
the existing and future needs of the town as established in this ordinance, and
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the landowners and
residents of the town. If any section, subsection, sentence, boundary or clause
of this ordinance is for any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid, the Town Board of Commissioners hereby declares that it would
have passed this ordinance and any section, subsection, sentence, boundary,
clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, boundaries, clauses or phrases are declared
invalid. The sections not declared invalid will continue to be used and
enforced by the town.
DIVISION 2. OTHER LAWS AND PRIOR APPROVALS
§ 120 CONSISTENCY WITH ADOPTED PLANS.
   The administration, enforcement and amendment of this ordinance shall be
accomplished in accordance with the town’s adopted comprehensive plan and any
other adopted plan or policy guidance.
§ 121 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Conformance.
      (1)   Advisory only.
         (a)   Except for functional plans and documents, adopted policy
guidance is advisory in nature and does not carry the effect of law.
         (b)   This ordinance or any decisions made under this ordinance may
not be challenged on the basis of any alleged nonconformity with an adopted
plan.
      (2)   Consistency desired but not required. This ordinance seeks to
ensure that all development within the town is consistent with the goals,
objectives, policies, strategies and actions contained in the town’s adopted
plans, but consistency between a decision made under this ordinance and the
adopted plan is not a legal requirement. Decisions on applications for
amendments to the text of this ordinance or the official zoning map shall be
accompanied by a statement of consistency recognizing if the proposed decision
is or is not consistent with the town’s adopted policy guidance in accordance
with G.S. § 160D-605.
      (3)   Amendment upon inconsistency.
         (a)   To the extent this ordinance or the official zoning map is or
becomes inconsistent with the town’s adopted plans, the town may amend this
ordinance to better achieve consistency, but such amendment is not legally
required. Zoning map amendments inconsistent with an adopted land use plan
automatically amend the land use plan. See §§
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, and
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments.
         (b)   In cases where the town’s adopted policy guidance is amended as
part of an approval of a zoning map amendment, the approval shall indicate the
simultaneous amendment of the applicable adopted plan.
   (B)   Functional plans and documents.
      (1)   The town has adopted functional plans and documents relating to
erosion control, economic development, tourism and the provision of public
infrastructure and services (e.g., the County Comprehensive Transportation Plan
(2012 or as amended) and the State Building Code and appendices). Compliance
with standards in functional plans and documents is mandatory.
§ 122 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicts with other laws. If a provision of this ordinance is
inconsistent with another provision found in other adopted ordinances of the
town, the more restrictive provision shall govern unless the terms of the more
restrictive provision specify otherwise. The more restrictive provision is the
one that imposes greater restrictions or burdens, or is more stringent.
   (B)   Conflicts with state or federal laws.
      (1)   If a provision of this ordinance is inconsistent with state or
federal law, the more restrictive provision controls, to the extent permitted
by law.
      (2)   In cases where a state law related to an environmental issue is
less restrictive, the state law shall control.
   (C)   Conflicts between standards in this ordinance.
      (1)   When two or more standards in this ordinance conflict with one
another, the more restrictive standard shall control. In cases where
development is configured in accordance with an authorized incentive or other
flexibility provision included in this ordinance (such as an administrative
adjustment), the standards related to the approved incentive or flexibility
provision shall control. The text of this ordinance shall be interpreted in
accordance with §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations. Nothing shall limit the Town Planner
from preparing a written interpretation of how conflicting provisions are
interpreted on a case-by-case basis.
§ 123 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The standards in this section address existing violations, nonconformities
and applications in process at the time this ordinance is adopted.
   (A)   Violations continue.
      (1)   Violations of the previous ordinance shall continue to be
violations under this ordinance, unless the development complies with this
ordinance and is no longer considered to be in violation, or the ability to
address the violation has lapsed in accordance with §
912, Statutes of Limitations.
      (2)   Any violation of the previous UDO that is no longer a violation
under this ordinance shall not be considered a violation.
      (3)   Violations of this ordinance that have not yet passed any
applicable statutes of limitation shall be subject to the penalties set forth
in
Article 9, Enforcement, unless the development complies with the express terms
of this ordinance or other applicable ordinances, laws or statutes.
   (B)   Existing nonconformities. If any use, building, structure, lot, sign
or site feature legally existed on August 1, 2007, but does not fully comply
with the standards of this ordinance, the use, building, structure, lot, sign
or site feature is considered nonconforming under this ordinance and shall
comply with the requirements in
Article 8, Nonconformities.
   (C)   Approved applications.
      (1)   Any development approvals granted before July 1, 2022, shall remain
valid until their expiration date.
      (2)   Developments with valid approvals or permits may be carried out in
accordance with the terms and conditions of their approval and the development
standards in effect at the time of approval, provided the permit or approval is
valid and has not expired.
      (3)   Portions of developments, including subdivisions, reserved as
future development sites where no lot lines are shown on a preliminary plat,
site plan, planned unit development master plan, or other plan of development
are governed by §
125, Permit Choice.
      (4)   If an approval expires or is revoked (e.g., for failure to comply
with the terms and conditions of approval), any subsequent development of the
site shall be applied for in accordance with the procedures and standards of
this ordinance, unless the 18-month standard in §
125, Permit Choice, applies.
      (5)   An applicant shall be deemed to have initiated an approved
development upon the subsequent application for and diligent pursuit of other
required town, county, state or federal permits or approvals.
      (6)   Timelines for the commencement or expiration of development in
accordance with an approved application shall be suspended in the event of
legal challenge.
   (D)   Pending applications.
      (1)   Final action pending.
         (a)   Any development application submitted and accepted as complete
July 1, 2022, but still pending final action as of that date, may be decided in
accordance with either the regulations in effect at the time the application
was determined complete or the regulations in this ordinance, as requested by
the applicant. See §
125, Permit Choice.
         (b)   To the extent an application is approved and proposes
development that does not comply with this ordinance, the subsequent
development, although permitted, shall be conforming and not subject to the
provisions of
Article 8, Nonconformities.
         (c)   If the development subject to an application approved under the
prior zoning or subdivision ordinances fails to comply with the required
timeframes, it shall expire, and future development shall be subject to the
requirements of this ordinance.
      (2)   Complete applications.
         (a)   Applications accepted as complete prior to July 1, 2022, may be
decided in accordance with either the regulations in effect at the time the
application was determined complete or the regulations in this ordinance, as
requested by the applicant. See §
125, Permit Choice.
         (b)   To the extent such an application is approved and proposes
development that does not comply with this ordinance, the subsequent
development, although permitted, shall be conforming and not subject to the
provisions of
Article 8, Nonconformities.
         (c)   If the development subject to an approved application fails to
comply with the required timeframes, then it shall expire, and future
development shall be subject to the requirements of this ordinance.
      (3)   Submitted, but incomplete applications. Applications that have been
submitted prior to July 1, 2022, but not determined to be complete by the Town
Planner as of that date, shall be reviewed and decided in accordance with this
ordinance.
   (E)   Pre-existing conditional use permits.
      (1)   Development subject to a conditional use permit issued prior to
July 1, 2022, shall continue to be subject to the conditional use permit
requirements and all conditions of approval.
      (2)   Amendments to a conditional use permit established prior to July 1,
2022, shall be in accordance with the standards in §
3318, Special Use Permit.
   (F)   Established uses without a special use permit.
      (1)   If a use was a lawfully-established permitted “by right” use before
July 1, 2022, and is subsequently made a special use as indicated in the
Principal Uses Table in §
527, the lawfully established pre-existing permitted use shall be considered a
nonconforming use in accordance with §
850, Nonconforming Uses, and may continue in operation.
      (2)   Any changes to a lawfully-established pre-existing permitted use
that now requires a special use permit after July 1, 2022, shall require a
special use permit in accordance with §
3318, Special Use Permit.
§ 124 REGULATORY CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The following codes and standards are hereby adopted and incorporated into
this ordinance by reference:
   (A)   The flood insurance rate maps for the town;
   (B)   The County Comprehensive Transportation Plan, 2012, as amended; and
   (C)   The town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual (adopted
February 15, 2021), as amended.
§ 125 PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   The permit choice rule. If an applicant submits a permit application
for development and a rule or the UDO is amended after the application is
submitted but before the permit decision is made, then the applicant may choose
which version of the rule or ordinance applies.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of permit choice, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DEVELOPMENT. Without altering the scope of any regulatory authority
granted by statute or local act, any of the following:
         (a)   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site or demolition of any structure;
         (b)   Excavation, grading, filling, clearing or alteration of land;
         (c)   The subdivision of land, as defined in §
1030, Defined Terms. See
Article 7, Subdivisions; and
         (d)   The initiation of substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of the use of land.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. An administrative or quasi-judicial approval
that is written and that is required prior to commencing development or
undertaking a specific activity, project or development proposal, including any
of the following:
         (a)   Zoning compliance certificates (see §
3323, Zoning Compliance Certificate);
         (b)   Site plan approvals (see §
3317, Site Plan);
         (c)   Special use permits (see §
3318, Special Use Permit);
         (d)   Variances (see §
3321, Variance);
         (e)   Certificates of appropriateness (see §
3302.1, Certificate of Appropriateness);
         (f)   Subdivision plat approvals (see §
3305, Conservation Subdivision, §
3308, Expedited and Exempt Subdivisions, §
3309, Final Plat, §
3310, Major Subdivision, and §
3311, Minor Subdivision);
         (g)   Development agreements (see §
3307, Development Agreement);
         (h)   Building permits (issued by the county);
         (i)   State agency permits for development;
         (j)   Driveway permits (issued by NCDOT or the town);
         (k)   Erosion and sedimentation control permits; and
         (l)   Sign permit (see
Article 6, Division 8, Signage).
      (3)   LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. Any state statute, rule or regulation,
or town or county ordinance affecting the development or use of real property,
including any of the following:
         (a)   This Unified Development Ordinance;
         (b)   Erosion and sedimentation control regulation;
         (c)   Floodplain or flood damage prevention regulation (see
Chapter 151 of the town’s code of ordinances); and
         (d)   The Town Housing Code.
   (C)   Applicants may pick the version of the ordinance or rule that applies.
A permit applicant may choose the version of each land development regulation
applicable to the project upon submittal of the application for the first
development permit.
   (D)   Time limits.
      (1)   Applicants must submit subsequent complete development applications
within 18 months of approval of the initial permit. Applicants may then select
whether the current code or the code in effect at the time of the initial
application applies.
      (2)   If an applicant fails to act on an application for six months, the
applicant waives permit choice and must comply with the new ordinance. The
vested rights provisions of the following Division 3, Vested Rights, apply.
DIVISION 3. VESTED RIGHTS
§ 130 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This division is intended to implement G.S. §§ 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 with
respect to the establishment of zoning vested rights for landowners or
applicants who have received a development approval from the town.
§ 131 VESTED RIGHTS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ZONING VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and
use of land under the terms and conditions of a development approval issued by
the town.
§ 132 SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLAN DEFINED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this division, a SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLAN is
defined as a plan of land development submitted to the town for purposes of
obtaining approval.
   (B)   A site-specific vesting plan must provide, with reasonable certainly,
all of the following:
      (1)   The boundaries of the development;
      (2)   Topographic and natural features affecting the site;
      (3)   The approximate location of proposed buildings, structures and
other improvements;
      (4)   The approximate dimensions, including height, of proposed buildings
and other structures;
      (5)   The approximate location of all existing and proposed
infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, streets and pedestrian
ways;
      (6)   The type or types of proposed land uses; and
      (7)   The density or intensity of development.
   (C)   A variance, sketch plan or any other document that fails to describe
with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use for a specific lot or
lots of property shall not constitute a site-specific vesting plan.
   (D)   The following development approvals constitute a site-specific vesting
plan:
      (1)   Final plats (see §
3309, Final Plat);
      (2)   Planned unit development master plans (see §
3313, Planned Unit Development);
      (3)   Preliminary plats associated with a major subdivision (see §
3310, Major Subdivision);
      (4)   Site plans (see §
3317, Site Plan); and
      (5)   Special use permits (see §
3318, Special Use Permit).
§ 133 ESTABLISHMENT OF A ZONING VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   Generally. A vested right may only be established following an
approval of a development application in accordance with this ordinance and the
applicable requirements in the state statutes.
   (B)   Common law vesting. A common law vested right is established only when
the following can be demonstrated by the landowner:
      (1)   There is an affirmative governmental act by the town in the form of
an approval of a permit or development approval under this ordinance;
      (2)   The landowner relies on this affirmative governmental act in good
faith and makes substantial expenditures to develop the land; and
      (3)   It would be inequitable to prevent the landowner from proceeding to
develop the land consistent with the terms and conditions of the permit or
development approval relied upon.
§ 134 PROCESS TO CLAIM VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   A landowner seeking to claim a vested right shall submit information
to substantiate his or her claim of vesting status along with an application
for a determination in accordance with §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations.
   (B)   Appeal of a decision on a determination application may be filed with
the Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
3301, Appeals.
   (C)   Applicants seeking to extend the vesting status of a site-specific
vesting plan may file an application for a vested rights certificate (see §
3322, Vested Rights Certificate).
§ 135 EFFECT OF A VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   Development approvals that have an established vested right in
accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-108 and 160D-108.1 and this section shall preclude
any action by the town that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish or
otherwise delay the development or use of the property authorized by the
development approval, except where a change in state or federal law occurs and
has a retroactive effect on the development or use.
   (B)   Except when subject to subsection (C) below, amendments to this
ordinance shall not be applicable to any of the following development approvals
after they are vested:
      (1)   Building or uses of land for which a development permit application
has been submitted and approved in accordance with this ordinance and G.S. §
143-755;
      (2)   Subdivisions of land for which a subdivision application has been
submitted and approved in accordance with this ordinance and G.S. § 143-755;
      (3)   A site-specific vesting plan approved in accordance with this
ordinance and G.S. § 160D-108.1;
      (4)   A multi-phase development approved in accordance with this
ordinance and G.S. § 160D-108; and
      (5)   A vested right established by the terms of an approved development
agreement in accordance with this ordinance and G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 10.
   (C)   Amendments to this ordinance shall apply to vested development
approvals if:
      (1)   A change to state or federal law occurs and has a retroactive
effect on the development or use;
      (2)   There is written consent to be subject to the amendment by the
landowner;
      (3)   The development approval expires; or
      (4)   The development is not undertaken or completed in accordance with
the approval.
§ 136 DURATION.
   Vested rights shall commence upon approval of a development application and
shall continue through the maximum duration periods established in this
section.
   (A)   Building permits. The issuance of a building permit establishes a
vested right to development for a period of six months, as long as the building
permit complies with the terms and conditions of approval of that building
permit.
   (B)   Development approvals. Except for building permits, site-specific
vesting plans, development agreements and multi-phase developments, any
development approval under this ordinance shall be vested from changes in this
ordinance for a period of one year from the date of approval, provided the
development subject to the approval complies with all applicable terms and
conditions. If work has commenced before one year from the date of approval,
then the approval is vested unless work on the project is voluntarily and
intentionally discontinued for two years.
   (C)   Multiple permits for development project. Subject to the other
subsections of this section, where multiple local development permits are
required to complete a development project, the development permit applicant
may choose the version of each of the local land development regulations
applicable to the project upon submittal of the application for the initial
development permit. This provision is applicable only for those subsequent
development permit applications filed within 18 months of the date following
the approval of an initial permit. For the purpose of the vesting protections
of this subsection (C), an erosion and sedimentation control permit or a sign
permit is not an initial development permit.
   (D)   Site-specific vesting plans.
      (1)   Development approvals identified by this ordinance as site-specific
vesting plans shall be granted a vested right to develop for a maximum period
of two years from the date of the approval, provided the development subject to
the approval complies with all applicable terms and conditions.
      (2)   The two-year vesting duration of a site-specific vesting plan may
be extended up to five years from the date of the approval in accordance with §
3322, Vested Rights Certificate.
      (3)   Site-specific vesting plans meeting the definition of a multi-phase
development shall be vested in accordance with subsection (E) below.
   (E)   Multi-phase developments.
      (1)   A multi-phase development plan is subject to a master plan that
depicts the types and intensities of all uses as part of the approval, and
includes more than one phase shall be considered as a multi-phase development
plan that is granted a vested right to develop for a period of seven years from
the date of approval of the first site plan associated with the development.
      (2)   Vesting shall commence upon approval of the site plan for the first
phase of the development.
      (3)   The vested right shall remain in effect provided the development
does not expire and provided it complies with all the applicable terms and
conditions of the approval.
   (F)   Development agreements. A development agreement shall be vested in
accordance with the vesting term identified in the development agreement.
§ 137 TERMINATION.
   (A)   Vested rights established in accordance with this ordinance shall run
with the land.
   (B)   In no instance shall vesting status extend beyond the maximum duration
for the type of development application approval identified in §
136, Duration. In no instance shall the vesting status of a development
approval continue after the development approval expires or if the development
approval is revoked for failure to comply with the terms of the approval or of
this ordinance. In no instance shall the vesting status of a development
approval continue after it is determined that the development approval was
based upon intentional inaccurate information or material misrepresentations.
   (C)   In no instance shall vested rights continue if the Town Board of
Commissioners finds, after a duly noticed public hearing, that natural or
human-made hazards resulting from the development would result in a serious
threat to public health, safety or welfare if the development were to be
continued or completed. In the event of commenced but uncompleted work
associated with a development approval, vested rights shall expire within 24
months of the discontinuance of work. This 24-month period shall not include
the time associated with work stoppage resulting from an appeal or litigation.
§ 138 LIMITATIONS.
   The establishment of a vested right does not preclude the town’s application
of overlay zoning district requirements or other development regulations that
do not affect the type of land use, its density or intensity. A vested right
shall not preclude the application of changes to building, fire, plumbing,
electrical or mechanical codes made after the development approval where a
vested right was established.
ARTICLE 2. ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES
DIVISION 1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL REVIEW AUTHORITIES
§ 210 OATH OF OFFICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All members appointed to boards shall, before entering their duties,
qualify by taking an oath of office administered by the Mayor or the Mayor pro
tempore.
   (B)   Oaths shall be signed and filed with the Town Clerk.
   (C)   The oath to be administered is prescribed in Article VI, § 7 of the
State Constitution, as follows.
 
“I,                   , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and maintain the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitution and laws of North Carolina not
inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of my office as
                 , so help me God.”
 
§ 211 OPEN MEETINGS.
   Except as provided by state statutes, each official meeting of the public
bodies described in this article shall be open to the public, and any person is
entitled to attend such a meeting. Remote meetings conducted in accordance with
G.S. § 166A-19.24 shall comply with this section even if all members of the
public body are participating remotely.
§ 212 ATTENDANCE.
   Faithful attendance at scheduled meetings is required. The Board of
Commissioners may remove any appointed member for absenteeism. Missing three or
more meetings in a 12-month period is prima facie evidence of absenteeism. The
secretary to each board shall make a report on attendance to the Board of
Commissioners in writing at least once in every calendar year.
§ 213 MINUTES AND RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Each board shall draw up rules of procedure under which it will
operate. The Board of Commissioners will adopt rules of procedure and any
amendments that are consistent with the provisions of this UDO. In the absence
of action by the Board of Commissioners, each board created under this article
is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure that are consistent with the
provisions of this ordinance. A copy of any adopted rules of procedure shall be
maintained by the Town Clerk and posted on the town’s official web site.
   (B)   Each board shall keep minutes of its proceedings. The secretary shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, and the absence or failure of any member to vote, and a copy of the
minutes shall be maintained on file for public record in the office of the Town
Clerk.
§ 214 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Generally. A Town Commissioner or Planning Board member shall not vote
on any legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant
to this UDO where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. A Board of Commissioners or Planning Board member shall not vote
on any zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business or other associational relationship.
   (B)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of the Board of Adjustment,
Historic Preservation Commission or Town Commissioner shall not participate in
or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate an affected
persons’ constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a
fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change,
undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial, business or other
associational relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in
the outcome of the matter. Quasi-judicial decisions include variances and
special use permits.
DIVISION 2. TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 220 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall hear and decide the following applications
or permits. In considering the applications, the Board of Commissioners shall
follow the requirements of
Article 3, Division 1 and the sections governing each specific action as listed
below:
   (A)   Comprehensive plan adoption/amendment (see §
3304, Comprehensive Plan);
   (B)   Conservation subdivision (see §
3305, Conservation Subdivision);
   (C)   Development agreements (see §
3307, Development Agreement);
   (D)   Major subdivision (see §
3310, Major Subdivision);
   (E)   Mixed use development (see §
3312, Mixed Use Development);
   (F)   Planned unit development (see §
3313, Planned Unit Development);
   (G)   Reasonable accommodation (Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq.)
(see §
3314, Reasonable Accommodation);
   (H)   Rezoning/map amendment (see §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment);
   (I)   Conditional district map amendment (see §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments);
   (J)   Site plan (see 3317, Site Plan);
   (K)   Special use permit (see §
3318, Special Use Permit);
   (L)   Text amendment (see §
3320, Text Amendment); and
   (M)   Vested rights certificate (see §
3322, Vested Rights Certificate).
DIVISION 3. PLANNING BOARD
§ 230 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Planning Board is hereby established in accordance with G.S. § 160D-301.
§ 231 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Planning Board has five members. The Planning Board shall also
serve as the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Members may be appointed to successive terms without limitation.
   (C)   (1)   The Planning Board shall consist of five regular members, and
two alternate members, each to be appointed for three-year terms, except as
allowed otherwise below. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint four regular
members and one alternate.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners may appoint one regular and one
alternate member. In appointing the members of such Board, the Board of
Commissioners may appoint certain members for less than three years to the end
that thereafter the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
      (3)   All members appointed by the Town Board shall be citizens and
residents of the town.
   (D)   Vacancies may be filled for the unexpired terms only by majority vote
of the Board of Commissioners. Members will be appointed to complete the
remainder of an unexpired term.
   (E)   Alternate members shall participate in all deliberations. Alternate
members shall only vote in the absence of a regular member.
§ 232 BOARD OFFICERS.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each calendar year, the Planning Board
shall, by majority vote of its membership (excluding vacant seats), elect one
of its members to serve as Chairperson and preside over the Board’s meetings
and one member to serve as Vice-Chairperson. All elected person shall serve in
these capacities for terms of one year. The Town Clerk shall serve as Secretary
to the Planning Board. Any appointed secretary shall serve at the pleasure of
the Board of Commissioners. Vacancies among the appointed or elected officials
may be filled for the unexpired terms only by majority vote of the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson may take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues.
   (C)   The Board shall draw up and adopt rules of procedure under which it
will operate. The Board of Commissioners will approve the rules of procedure
and any amendments.
§ 233 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall hear and decide applications for minor
subdivisions (see §
3311, Minor Subdivision).
   (B)   The Planning Board shall hear and provide a recommendation to the
Board of Commissioners on the following:
      (1)   Adoption of or amendment to the comprehensive plan or any other
town plan, as requested by the Board of Commissioners (see §
3304, Comprehensive Plan);
      (2)   Conservation subdivisions (see §
3305, Conservation Subdivision);
      (3)   Development agreements (see §
3307, Development Agreement);
      (4)   Major subdivisions (see §
3310, Major Subdivision);
      (5)   Mixed use developments (see §
3312, Mixed Use Development);
      (6)   Planned unit developments (see §
3313, Planned Unit Development);
      (7)   Rezoning/map amendments (see §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment);
      (8)   Conditional district map amendment (see §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments);
      (9)   Site plans (see §
3317, Site Plan);
      (10)   Special use permits (see §
3318, Special Use Permit);
      (11)   Text amendments (see §
3320, Text Amendment); and
      (12)   Vested rights certificate (see §
3322, Vested Rights Certificate).
   (C)   Any of the duties listed in G.S. § 1600-301 that are assigned by the
Board of Commissioners.
§ 234 MEETINGS AND QUORUM.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall meet on the second Tuesday of every month at
6:00 p.m., unless meetings are cancelled for lack of business, emergency or
other valid reason. Special meetings may be called in accordance with G.S. §
160A-71.
   (B)   All meetings of the Planning Board shall be open to the public, and
the agenda for each Planning Board meeting shall be made available in advance
of the meeting. A notice of the meeting shall be published in a local newspaper
and be posted at Town Hall in accordance with G.S. § 160A-71.
    (C)   A quorum for the Planning Board shall consist of three or more
members. A quorum is necessary for the Planning Board to take any action.
   (D)   A member who has withdrawn from the meeting without being excused, as
provided in G.S. § 160A-75, shall be counted as present for purposes of
determining whether a quorum is present.
§ 235 VOTING.
   (A)   The concurring vote of a majority of the regular membership (excluding
vacant seats and members who are disqualified) shall be necessary to make any
decision.
   (B)   Once a member is physically present at a Planning Board meeting, any
subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the
member has been excused in accordance with subsection (C) below or has been
allowed to withdraw from the meeting in accordance with subsection (D) below.
   (C)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the member has a conflict of interest as defined in §
214, Conflict of Interest; and
      (2)   If the matter at issue involves the member’s own official conduct.
   (D)   Any Planning Board member may make a motion to excuse a member from
voting on a specific item or from the remainder of the meeting.
DIVISION 4. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 240 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby creates a Board of Adjustment in
accordance with G.S. § 1600-302 to make such quasi-judicial decisions as are
required by this UDO or state statute.
§ 241 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is comprised of five regular members and two
alternate members. The members are appointed by the same bodies and in the same
numbers as members of the Planning Board are appointed. All of the members also
serve on the Planning Board. The alternate members shall have all the powers as
regular members and may fill in for regular members as needed in meetings.
   (B)   Members may be appointed to successive terms without limitation.
   (C)   Each member is appointed for three-year terms, except as allowed
otherwise below. In appointing the members of such Board, or in the filling of
vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of existing members, the Board
of Commissioners may appoint certain members for less than three years to the
end; thereafter the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
§ 242 BOARD OFFICERS.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each calendar year, the Board of
Adjustment shall, by majority vote of its membership (excluding vacant seats),
elect one of its members to serve as Chairperson and preside over the Board of
Adjustment’s meetings and one member to serve as Vice-Chairperson. All elected
persons shall serve in these capacities for terms of one year. The Board of
Commissioners may appoint the Town Clerk to serve as Secretary to the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   Vacancies among the appointed or elected officials may be filled for
the unexpired terms only by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Chairperson or any member temporarily acting as Chairperson shall
administer oaths to witnesses coming before the Board.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson may take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues.
§ 243 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide:
   (A)   Appeals from any order, decision, requirement or interpretation made
by the town, inclusive of
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention, in the town code;
   (B)   Appeals of staff decisions (see §§
3301, Appeals, and
3306, Determinations and Interpretations);
   (C)   Variances (see §
3321, Variance);
   (D)   Questions involving determinations and interpretations of the zoning
map, including disputed district boundary lines and lot lines (see generally
Article 10, Division 2, Rules of Measurement); and
   (E)   Any other matter the Board of Adjustment is required to act upon by
any other ordinance.
§ 244 MEETINGS AND QUORUM.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall meet on an as needed basis until such
time as the volume of applications requires the Board to adopt an annual
schedule of regular meetings.
   (B)   The agenda for each Board of Adjustment meeting shall be made
available in advance of the meeting.
   (C)   A quorum for the Board of Adjustment is four members. A quorum is
necessary for the Board of Adjustment to take official action.
   (D)   A member who has withdrawn from the meeting without being excused, as
provided in §
245, Voting, shall be counted as present for purposes of determining whether a
quorum is present.
§ 245 VOTING.
   (A)   Once a quorum is established, the concurring vote of a majority of
those present (excluding members who are disqualified) shall be necessary to
make any decision, except decisions on variances.
   (B)   Once a member is physically present at a Board of Adjustment meeting,
any subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless
the member has been excused in accordance with subsection (C) below or has been
allowed to withdraw from the meeting in accordance with subsection (D) below.
   (C)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the member has a conflict of interest as defined by §
214, Conflict of Interest, above; or
      (2)   If the matter at issue involves the member’s own official conduct.
   (D)   A motion to excuse a member from voting on a specific item, or from
the remainder of the meeting, may be made by any Board of Adjustment member.
DIVISION 5. HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 250 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby creates an Historic Preservation
Commission in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-303 and 160D-940 et seq. to make
such inventories, studies and recommendations and quasi-judicial decisions
regarding applications for certificates of appropriateness as are required by
this UDO or state statute.
§ 251 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission is comprised of five regular
members, and two alternate members. The members may be appointed by the same
bodies and in the same numbers as members of the Planning Board are appointed.
All of the members may also serve on the Planning Board. The alternate members
shall have all the powers as regular members and may fill in for regular
members as needed in meetings.
   (B)   Members may be appointed to successive terms without limitation.
   (C)   Each member is appointed for three-year terms, except as allowed
otherwise below. In appointing the members of such Board, or in the filling of
vacancies caused by the expiration of the terms of existing members, the Board
of Commissioners may appoint certain members for less than three years to the
end that thereafter the terms of all members shall not expire at the same time.
   (D)   All members shall reside within the town limits. All members shall
have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history,
archaeology, architecture, historic preservation or related fields.
§ 252 COMMISSION OFFICERS.
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of each calendar year, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall, by majority vote of its membership (excluding
vacant seats), elect one of its members to serve as Chairperson and preside
over the Commission’s meetings and one member to serve as Vice-Chairperson. All
elected persons shall serve in these capacities for terms of one year. The
Board of Commissioners may appoint the Town Clerk to serve as Secretary to the
Historic Preservation Commission.
   (B)   Vacancies among the appointed or elected officials may be filled for
the unexpired terms only by majority vote of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Chairperson or any member temporarily acting as Chairperson shall
administer oaths to witnesses coming before the Board.
   (D)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson may take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues.
§ 253 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall hear and decide:
   (A)   Appeals from any order, decision, requirement or interpretation made
by the Town Planner, regarding minor works (see §
464, Minor Works);
   (B)   Applications for certificates of appropriateness (see §
3302.1, Certificate of Appropriateness); and
   (C)   Any other matter the Commission is permitted to act upon by any other
ordinance or state statute.
§ 254 MEETINGS AND QUORUM.
   The Historic Preservation Commission shall meet on an as needed basis until
such time as the volume of applications requires the Commission to adopt an
annual schedule of regular meetings. The agenda for each Historic Preservation
Commission meeting shall be made available in advance of the meeting. A quorum
for the Historic Preservation Commission is three members. A quorum is
necessary for the Historic Preservation Commission to take official action. A
member who has withdrawn from the meeting without being excused, as provided in
§
255, Voting, shall be counted as present for purposes of determining whether a
quorum is present.
§ 255 VOTING.
   (A)   Once a quorum is established, the concurring vote of a majority of
those present (excluding members who are disqualified) shall be necessary to
make any decision, except decisions on variances.
   (B)   Once a member is physically present at an Historic Preservation
Commission meeting, any subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an
affirmative vote unless the member has been excused in accordance with
subsection (C) below or has been allowed to withdraw from the meeting in
accordance with subsection (D) below.
   (C)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the member has a conflict of interest as defined by §
214, Conflict of Interest, above; or
      (2)   If the matter at issue involves the member’s own official conduct.
   (D)   A motion to excuse a member from voting on a specific item, or from
the remainder of the meeting may be made by any Historic Preservation
Commission member.
DIVISION 6. DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE
§ 260 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall appoint a committee of staff members
having particular expertise in the development of real property as the
Development Review Committee (DRC). The Committee shall be chaired by the Town
Planner. The DRC members shall consist of the Planning Board Chair, and the
Fire Chief or their designees. Other members shall serve on the DRC on an ad
hoc basis, depending on the nature, size and complexity of the development
project to be reviewed include, but are not limited to: parks and recreation,
Town Attorney, NCDOT and public works.
   (B)   County agencies may be consulted, including, but not limited to:
public utilities (including stormwater, erosion control, infrastructure),
environmental health, Health Department, inspections and emergency management
services.
§ 261 DUTIES.
   (A)   The DRC shall review and comment on all plans to be reviewed and/or
approved by any other body listed in this ordinance, including the Board of
Commissioners, Planning Board and Board of Adjustment, and on all requests for
permits referred to the DRC by the Town Planner, both for conformity with the
town code and with Board of Commissioners resolutions.
   (B)   The DRC shall suggest rules of procedure and schedules to ensure that
plans submitted shall be reviewed and comments returned to developers in a
timely manner. The Board of Commissioners shall approve the rules of procedure.
§ 262 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The members of the DRC shall follow and abide by §
214, Conflict of Interest.
DIVISION 7. TOWN PLANNER
§ 270 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Planner shall have the following powers and duties, to be carried
out in accordance with the terms of this ordinance:
   (A)   General planning and permitting.
      (1)   To review all applications for land development for compliance with
the terms of this ordinance;
      (2)   To issue and maintain a record of all development related permits
and approvals on file and to make copies available to interested parties;
      (3)   To provide the Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment, Historic Preservation Commission, town staff and applicants with
reports and recommendations, as required by this ordinance, other laws or
regulations or at the request of said bodies;
      (4)   To interpret the language of this UDO (see §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations);
      (5)   To enforce compliance with the terms of this ordinance, unless
otherwise specified;
      (6)   To issue zoning compliance certificates in conjunction with the
Development Review Committee (see §
3323, Zoning Compliance Certificate);
      (7)   To perform zoning checks before certificates of occupancy are
issued (see §
3303, Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate);
      (8)   To make administrative modifications (see §
3300, Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate) and
determinations and interpretations (see §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations), approve grading permits (see §
3309.1, Grading Permit), sign permits (see
Article 6, Division 8, Signage) and zoning compliance certificates (see §
3322, Vested Rights Certificate); and
      (9)   To revoke any permits provided therein, except quasi-judicial
permits.
   (B)   Special use, variance and map and text amendments.
      (1)   To review all applications for special use permits, variances,
certificates of appropriateness and amendments for completeness and compliance
with the terms of this ordinance; and
      (2)   To enforce compliance with the terms of this ordinance, unless
otherwise specified.
   (C)   Subdivision administration.
      (1)   To review all applications for the subdivision of land for
compliance with the terms of this ordinance;
      (2)   To approve final plats, exempt subdivisions (see §
3308, Expedited and Exempt Subdivisions), expedited subdivisions (see §
3308, Expedited and Exempt Subdivisions) and to revoke any permits as provided
by this UDO (see §
944, Revocation of Permits);
      (3)   To provide the Board of Commissioners, Planning Board and other
boards and commissions with reports and recommendations, as required by this
ordinance, other laws or regulations or at the request of said bodies;
      (4)   To issue and maintain a record of all subdivisions and approvals on
file and to make copies available to interested parties; and
      (5)   To enforce compliance with the terms of this ordinance, unless
otherwise specified.
   (D)   Environmental protection.
      (1)   To serve as the Floodplain Administrator in accordance with
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention; and
      (2)   To revoke any permits provided therein (see §
944, Revocation of Permits).
§ 271 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   (1)   No town staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this UDO if the outcome of that decision
would have a direct, substantial and readily identifiable financial impact on
the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that decision
is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business or other
associational relationship.
      (2)   If a staff member has a conflict of interest under this section,
the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person, or such
other staff person as may be designated by the UDO.
   (B)   (1)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this ordinance unless the staff member is the owner of the land or
building involved.
      (2)   No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with a local government to provide staff support shall engage in
any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of
the town, as determined by the town.
ARTICLE 3. PROCEDURES AND PERMITS
DIVISION 1. TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF PROCEDURES
   The following table summarizes the procedures explained in this article.
Table 1. Summary of Procedures
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.png]
 
DIVISION 2. STANDARD REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 320 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a pre-application conference is to provide an
opportunity for the applicant to learn about the submittal requirements,
procedures and standards applicable to a particular development application. A
pre-application conference is also an opportunity for town staff to become
familiar with, and offer preliminary comments about, the scope, features and
impacts of the proposed development, as it relates to the standards in this
ordinance.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Pre-application conference required. A pre-application conference
between the applicant and town staff is required before submittal of the
following applications:
         (a)   Administrative modification;
         (b)   Certificate of appropriateness;
         (c)   Comprehensive plan amendment;
         (d)   Conditional rezoning/map amendment;
         (e)   Conservation subdivisions;
         (f)   Conventional rezoning/map amendment;
         (g)   Development agreements;
         (h)   Major subdivision;
         (i)   Mixed use development;
         (j)   Planned unit developments;
         (k)   Site plan;
         (l)   Special use permits;
         (m)   UDO text amendments;
         (n)   Variances (to include flood hazard area and watershed
protection); and
         (o)   Vested rights certificate or determination.
      (2)   Pre-application conference optional. A pre-application conference
between the applicant and county staff is optional before submittal of the
following applications:
         (a)   Determinations and interpretations;
         (b)   Exempt subdivision plats;
         (c)   Final plats;
         (d)   Minor subdivisions;
         (e)   Reasonable accommodation;
         (f)   Sign permits;
         (g)   Temporary use permits;
         (h)   Vested rights certificate; and
         (i)   Zoning compliance certificates.
      (3)   Pre-application conference not conducted. When a town pre-
application conference is not required, one may be held at the request of
applicants, or for applications made directly to the county. The county may
require a pre application conference.
   (C)   Scheduling. Applicants shall contact the Town Planner to schedule a
pre-application conference.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Following receipt of a request for a pre-application conference,
the Town Planner shall schedule the conference and notify the applicant of the
time and location. The Town Planner may invite the Project Review Committee to
the conference. During the conference, town staff members will explain the
application review process and any special issues or concerns regarding the
subject proposal.
      (2)   The applicant is encouraged to submit a sketch or conceptual plan,
if appropriate, to town staff during the pre-application conference.
      (3)   In cases where a pre-application conference is required, the Town
Planner shall forward a brief written summary of the issues discussed during
the pre-application conference to the applicant for inclusion with the
application materials.
   (E)   Effect.
      (1)   When required, a completed pre-application conference entitles an
applicant to take the next step in the application process. Application types
requiring a pre-application conference will not be accepted until after the
mandatory pre-application conference has been completed.
      (2)   Discussions at a pre-application conference are not binding on the
town and do not constitute submittal for formal review of an application.
§ 321 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING.
   (A)   Application acceptance. The Town Planner shall not accept an
application for review that increases density or intensity compared to existing
development on a property unless:
      (1)   Meeting. All adjacent property owners have been invited to a
neighborhood meeting held at a reasonable time and location; and
      (2)   Attendance and summary. The applicant shall submit a summary report
indicating meeting minutes, an affidavit about the mailing and property posting
(see subsection (B), Applicant duty, below), attendance and the results of the
meeting with the required application.
   (B)   Applicant duty. The applicant shall set up the meeting. The applicant
may hold additional neighborhood meetings prior to any public hearing held by
the town at the applicant’s discretion.
      (1)   Mailed notice. At least seven days before the neighborhood meeting,
the applicant shall mail notice of the neighborhood meeting to the owners of
affected parcels of land and the owners of all parcels of land located within
300 feet of the boundaries of the land subject to the application. Properties
are “abutting” even if separated by a street, railroad, other transportation
corridor or stream, wetland or other natural features.
      (2)   Posted notice. The applicant shall prominently post a notice of the
neighborhood meeting on the subject property or on an adjacent street or right-
of-way. The notice shall be posted at least seven days before the neighborhood
meeting. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed rezoning/map
amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required, but the
applicant shall post sufficient notices to provide reasonable notice to
interested persons and affected and abutting property owners.
   (C)   Continuing the review process. After the neighborhood meeting has
occurred applications may be reviewed as provided in §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance, and the succeeding sections.
   (D)   Response to meeting summary.
      (1)   Any person attending the neighborhood meeting may submit a written
response to the applicant’s meeting summary to the Town Planner within 30 days
after the neighborhood meeting.
      (2)   The response may state the understanding of attendee comments,
discuss issues related to the development proposal and include any other
information deemed appropriate.
      (3)   All written responses to the applicant’s summary of the
neighborhood meeting shall be in the form of an affidavit and shall be
transmitted to the applicant and included with the application materials.
§ 322 APPLICATION FILING AND ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Authority to file applications. Unless expressly stated otherwise in
this ordinance, development applications associated with a particular lot or
site reviewed under this ordinance shall be submitted by the landowner,
contract purchaser, agent of the landowner or other person having a recognized
property interest in the land on which development is proposed. Agents may be
asked to provide proof of agency.
   (B)   Application content. The Town Planner is authorized to establish the
application content and forms, which shall be maintained in the offices of the
Planning Department.
   (C)   Application fees.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall establish application fees and may
amend and update those fees, as necessary. Fees shall cover the costs of
review, including public notification, as required.
      (2)   No action shall be taken on an application, and no application
approval shall be issued until all required application fees are paid in full.
   (D)   Submittal and review schedule.
      (1)   The Town Planner is authorized to and shall establish specific
rules for submittal and review schedules (including timeframes for review) for
the various types of development applications, which shall be on file and
available for inspection in the offices of the Planning Department during
normal business hours.
      (2)   Nothing shall require or prohibit the Town Planner from reducing
the amount of time necessary for review of an application as workflow allows,
but the timeframes for public notice in §
324, Public Notices, shall not be reduced.
   (E)   Application submittal.
      (1)   Applications shall be submitted to the Town Planner in the form
established by the Town Planner, along with the appropriate application fee.
      (2)   An application shall not be considered to be submitted until
determined to be complete in accordance with subsection (G) below.
      (3)   No application shall be reviewed or decided until after it is
determined to be complete.
   (F)   Burden of presenting complete application. The burden of presenting
and maintaining a complete application shall be solely upon the applicant.
   (G)   Determination of application completeness. On receiving a development
application, the Town Planner shall determine, within seven days, whether the
application is complete or incomplete. A complete application is one that:
      (1)   Contains all information and materials identified in the
appropriate town ordinances and other documentation as required for submittal
of the particular type of application;
      (2)   Is in the form and number of copies required by the appropriate
town ordinance(s) and/or documentation;
      (3)   Is legible and drawn or printed to scale (where appropriate);
      (4)   Is signed by the person with the authority to file the application;
      (5)   Includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate whether or
not the application complies with the applicable review standards in this
ordinance;
      (6)   Is accompanied by the fee established for the particular type of
application;
      (7)   Includes material associated with a pre-application conference if
one is required; and
      (8)   Includes the written summary of a neighborhood meeting if one was
conducted prior to application submittal.
   (H)   Application incomplete.
      (1)   If the application is incomplete, the Town Planner shall notify the
applicant in writing of the deficiencies.
      (2)   The applicant may correct the deficiencies and resubmit the
application for completeness determination.
      (3)   Application processing shall stop following delivery of a notice of
incomplete application until all deficiencies are addressed and the application
is determined to be complete, or the applicant declares the application to be
complete in accordance with subsection (J) below.
      (4)   If the deficiencies in an application are not addressed in writing
in 45 calendar days, the application will be treated as withdrawn. If the
application is re-submitted after 45 days, the fee set by the Board of
Commissioners will be charged.
   (I)   Application complete.
      (1)   On determining that the application is complete, it shall be
considered as submitted, the town shall notify the applicant and commence
review in accordance with the procedures and standards of this ordinance.
      (2)   Nothing shall preclude the Town Planner or a review authority from
re-evaluating an application for completeness in the event application
inadequacies are revealed at a date subsequent to an application being declared
complete.
   (J)   Declaration of completeness by applicant.
      (1)   If, upon receipt of notice of application deficiencies by the Town
Planner, an applicant wishes to have the application processed without further
amendment or revision, the applicant shall provide written notice to the Town
Planner that they desire the application to be processed without further
amendment or revision.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of written notice to process the application
without further amendment or revision, the Town Planner shall process the
application in accordance with the standards in this ordinance.
         (b)   In no instance shall additional materials or information be
added to the application by the applicant. Nothing shall limit an applicant
from withdrawing an application in accordance with §
329.1, Modification, Continuance or Withdrawal.
§ 323 STAFF AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE REVIEW AND ACTION.
   (A)   Determination of application completeness. On receiving a development
application, the Town Planner shall determine, within seven days, whether the
application is complete or incomplete. A complete application is one that:
      (1)   Contains all information and materials identified in the
appropriate town documentation as required for submittal of the particular type
of application;
      (2)   Is in the form and number of copies required by the appropriate
town documentation;
      (3)   Is legible and printed to scale (where appropriate);
      (4)   Is signed by the person with the authority to file the application;
      (5)   Includes information in sufficient detail to evaluate whether or
not the application complies with the applicable review standards in this
ordinance;
      (6)   Is accompanied by the fee established for the particular type of
application;
      (7)   Includes material associated with a pre-application conference if
one is required; and
      (8)   Includes the written summary of a neighborhood meeting if one was
conducted prior to application submittal.
   (B)   Application incomplete.
      (1)   If the application is incomplete, the Town Planner shall notify the
applicant of the deficiencies in writing.
      (2)   The applicant may correct the deficiencies and resubmit the
application for completeness determination.
      (3)   Application processing shall stop following delivery of a notice of
incomplete application until all deficiencies are addressed and the application
is determined to be complete, or the applicant declares the application to be
complete in accordance with subsection (E) below.
      (4)   On determining that the application is complete, it shall be
considered as submitted, the town shall notify the applicant and commence
review in accordance with the procedures and standards of this ordinance.
      (5)   Nothing shall preclude the Town Planner or a review authority from
re-evaluating an application for completeness in the event application
inadequacies are revealed at a date subsequent to an application being declared
complete.
   (C)   Staff report and recommendation.
      (1)   The Town Planner may review the application with the Project Review
Committee.
      (2)   The Town Planner shall prepare a written staff report on any
application to be reviewed or decided by the Planning Board, Board of
Commissioners or the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Except for appeals and variances, the staff report shall conclude
whether the application complies with all applicable review standards of this
ordinance and recommend one of the decisions authorized for the particular type
of application, based on the review standards applicable to the application
type.
      (4)   In cases where the staff finds an application does not comply with
the provisions of this ordinance, the staff report shall cite the specific code
section(s) in question and the reasons why the application fails to comply.
      (5)   The staff report may identify and recommend modifications to the
development proposal that specify how compliance deficiencies might be
corrected and how adverse effects of the development application (if any) might
be mitigated.
      (6)   A staff report is not required for applications decided by the Town
Planner or the Technical Review Committee, though one may be prepared.
   (D)   Distribution of application and staff report.
      (1)   Schedule and ensure any required public notice of the application
(if appropriate) is prepared in accordance with §
324, Public Notices;
      (2)   Transmit the application, related materials and staff report to the
appropriate review authority(ies);
      (3)   Transmit a copy of the staff report and any related materials to
the applicant; and
      (4)   Make the application, related materials and staff report available
for examination by the public.
   (E)   Declaration of completeness by applicant.
      (1)   If, upon receipt of notice of application deficiencies by the Town
Planner, an applicant wishes to have the application processed without further
amendment or revision, the applicant shall provide written notice to the Town
Planner that he or she desires the application to be processed without further
amendment or revision.
      (2)   Upon receipt of written notice to process the application without
further amendment or revision, the Town Planner shall process the application
in accordance with the standards in this ordinance. In no instance shall
additional materials or information be added to the application by the
applicant. Nothing shall limit an applicant from withdrawing an application in
accordance with §
329.1, Modification, Continuance or Withdrawal.
§ 324 PUBLIC NOTICES.
   (A)   Public notification requirements.
      (1)   Applicable state law. All development applications subject to
public notification shall comply with standards in G.S. §§ 160D-405, 160D-406,
160D-601, 160D-602, 160D-702, 160D-705 and 160D-1405 (as appropriate) and the
other provisions in this ordinance related to public notice.
      (2)   Notice type and timing. The Town Planner shall ensure public
notification (whether via published notice, mailed notice or posted notice) is
provided in accordance with the requirements in the following
Table 2, Public Notice and Scheduling, for the type of application and the type
of notice. In computing the required time periods, the day the notice is
published, mailed or posted shall not be included, but the day of the hearing
shall be included.
Table 2 - Public Notice and Scheduling
Application Type Review Authority [1] Type of Notice Provided
                                      “X” = Required
Table 2 - Public Notice and Scheduling
                              Type of Notice Provided
Application     Review        “X” = Required
Type            Authority [1] Published Notice Mailed Notice  Posted Notice [4]
                              [2]              [3]
Appeal          BOA           -                X [5]          X [5]
Certificate of  HPC           X                X              X
appropriateness
Comprehensive   BOC           X                X [7]
plan
Development     BOC           X                X [7]          X
agreement
Development     BOC           X                X              X
agreement
Mixed use       BOC           X                X              X
development
Planned unit    BOC           X                X              X
development
Site plan       BOC           -                X              X
Special use     BOC           X                X              X
permit
UDO text        BOC           X                -              -
amendment [6]
Variance        BOA           -                X              X
Vested rights
certificate or  BOC           X                X              -
determination
Zoning map      BOC           X                X [7]          X
amendment [6]
Notes:
[1] “BOA” = Board of Adjustment; “PB”= Planning Board; “BOC” = Board of
Commissioners; “HPC” = Historic
Preservation Commission.
[2] Published notice shall be provided once a week for 2 successive calendar
weeks, with the first notice published between 10 and 25 days before the public
hearing.
[3] Mailed notice shall be provided to the applicant, affected landowners and
landowners of abutting land between 10 and 25 days before the public hearing.
[4] Posted notice shall be provided between 10 and 25 days before the public
hearing.
[5] Mailed and posted notice shall only be required in cases where an appeal
pertains to particular lot or site.
[6] Review of text and map amendments (including mixed use and planned unit
developments) require consideration by the Planning Board, but these reviews
are conducted during public meetings, not publicly noticed hearings.
[7] Mailed notice shall not be required when a zoning map amendment includes
more than 50 lots or tracts owned by at least 50 different landowners, provided
the county publishes a map (occupying at least one-half of a newspaper page)
showing the boundaries of the affected area in a newspaper of general
circulation once a week for 2 successive calendar weeks between 10 days and 25
days before the public hearing. Affected landowners residing outside the
newspaper circulation area shall be notified via first-class mail pursuant to §
324, Public Notices.
 
   (B)   Published notice requirements.
      (1)   When the provisions of this ordinance require that public notice be
published, the Town Planner shall publish a notice in a newspaper that is
published weekly and that has general circulation in the community.
      (2)   The form and content of the notice shall comply with the applicable
state statute.
      (3)   A copy of the published notice shall also be published on the
town’s website.
   (C)   Mailed notice requirements.
      (1)   Mailed notice specified in
Table 2, Public Notice and Scheduling, shall be mailed to:
         (a)   All landowners subject to the application;
         (b)   The applicant, if different from the landowner; and
         (c)   All landowners entitled to receive notice by state statutes
(including landowners located outside the town) whose address is known by
reference to the latest county tax listing.
      (2)   Notice shall be deemed mailed by its deposit in the United States
mail, first-class or certified (as appropriate), properly addressed, postage
paid or other form of mailing authorized by the State Rule of Civil Procedure
4.
      (3)   The content and form of the notice shall comply with the applicable
requirements in the state statutes.
      (4)   A copy of the mailed notice shall be maintained in the Town
Planner’s office for public inspection during normal business hours.
      (5)   The town may choose, in some cases, and in its sole discretion, to
provide mailed public notice to parties beyond that required by the state
statutes. Failure of the town to provide mailed public notice beyond the
minimum requirements specified in the state statutes shall not invalidate the
proceedings or subject the town to claims of failure of due process.
   (D)   Posted notice requirements. Posted notice shall be made by the Town
Planner or designee and shall comply with the following:
      (1)   A sign shall be placed on the subject property in a conspicuous
location so as to be clearly visible to the traveled portion of the respective
street. Where the land subject to the notice does not have frontage on a public
street, the sign shall be erected on the nearest street right-of-way with an
attached notation generally indicating the direction and distance to the land
subject to the application.
      (2)   The content and form of the notice shall comply with the applicable
requirements in the state statutes.
   (E)   Constructive notice.
      (1)   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or
invalidate proceedings if a bona fide attempt is made to comply with applicable
notice requirements. Minor defects in notice may include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Errors in a legal description;
         (b)   Errors or omissions in the tax listing provided by the county;
or
         (c)   Typographical or grammatical errors that do not impede
communication of the notice to affected parties.
      (2)   Failure of a party to receive written notice shall not invalidate
subsequent action. In all cases, however, the requirements for the timing of
the notice and for specifying the time, date and place of a public hearing and
the location of the subject property(ies) shall be strictly adhered to.
§ 325 PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public meetings.
      (1)   Applications subject to a recommendation by the Planning Board in
Table 1, Summary of Procedures, shall be heard by the Planning Board during a
public meeting (not a public hearing) noticed in accordance with §
324, Public Notices.
      (2)   The public meeting shall be open to the public and shall be
conducted in accordance with the Planning Board’s adopted rules of procedure
for public meetings. There is no requirement to allow public comment or
testimony during a public meeting.
   (B)   Legislative public hearings.
      (1)   Except for applications for reasonable accommodations, special use
permits, applications decided by the Board at Commissioners as legislative
decisions as listed in
Table 1, Summary of Procedures, shall be reviewed during a legislative public
hearing subject to prior public notification in accordance with §
324, Public Notices.
      (2)   The legislative public hearing shall be open to the public and
shall be conducted in accordance with the review authority’s adopted rules of
procedure for public hearings. Attendees shall be afforded the opportunity to
comment or provide testimony during a public hearing, as authorized in the
adopted rules of procedure.
   (C)   Quasi-judicial public hearings. Some applications (e.g., special use
permits, appeals, variances and others) in
Table 1, Summary of Procedures, are decided following a quasi-judicial public
hearing, which shall be conducted in accordance with the review authority’s
rules of procedure and the following.
      (1)   Opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Any party with
standing shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to present testimony and
evidence in support of or in opposition to the application, and to ask
questions of the applicant, the applicant’s witnesses, town staff and the town
staff’s witnesses and any other witnesses. Only persons with standing, as
defined in subsection (C)(6) below, may cross-examine adverse witnesses,
present witnesses and arguments to the Board, make motions and objections and
generally act as an advocate for their matter.
      (2)   Limitation on evidence. The Chair or other presiding officer may
place reasonable and equitable limitations on the presentation of evidence and
arguments and the cross-examination of witnesses so that the matter at issue
may be heard and decided without undue delay, including the presentation of
repetitive or irrelevant testimony. The Chair may limit or exclude incompetent
evidence, immaterial evidence, repetitive evidence and ad hominem attacks.
      (3)   Members excused under certain circumstances. A member may be
excused from participation and voting on a particular issue by majority vote of
the remaining members if the member’s participation or voting would violate §
214, Conflict of Interest. Ex parte communications between an applicant or an
affected party and a member of the review authority deciding the application
are prohibited. See §
214(B), Conflict of Interest. If it occurs, it shall be disclosed during the
quasi-judicial public hearing. Nothing shall limit communication between the
applicant and town staff regarding the application.
      (4)   Subpoenas.
         (a)   The Chair, or in the Chair’s absence anyone acting as Chair, may
subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence.
         (b)   To request issuance of a subpoena, persons with standing, as
defined under subsection (C)(6) below may make a written request to the Chair
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled.
         (c)   The Chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines
to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope and not oppressive.
         (d)   The Chair shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a
subpoena.
         (e)   Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chair may be appealed
to the full Board of Adjustment.
         (f)   If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant
to this subsection (C)(4), the Board of Adjustment or the party seeking the
subpoena may apply to the general court of justice for an order requiring that
its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these
orders after notice to all proper parties.
      (5)   Objections. Before witness testimony, the Board shall hear and rule
on any objections to documents in the record, or any town staff report provided
to the Board.
      (6)   Standing. The following persons shall have standing to file an
appeal, request a variance or participate as a party in an action before the
Board:
         (a)   A person who has an ownership interest in the property that is
the subject of the action, a leasehold interest in the property that is the
subject of the action or an interest created by easement, restriction or
covenant in the property that is the subject of the action;
         (b)   A person who has an option or contract to purchase the property
that is the subject of the action;
         (c)   A person who is an applicant for an administrative decision or
map interpretation by the town staff;
         (d)   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result
of the action before the Board;
         (e)   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners or
lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have standing as an
individual to bring or challenge action and the association was not created in
response to the particular development or issue that is before the Board; and
         (f)   The town by action of the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Conduct of a quasi-judicial hearing. The Board of Adjustment,
Historic Preservation Commission or Board of Commissioners will conduct all
quasi-judicial hearings according to the following rules.
         (a)   Evidence and burden of proof. All persons who intend to present
evidence to the Board shall be sworn by the Chair or acting Chair.
            1.   All findings and conclusions necessary to the decision shall
be based upon reliable, competent and material evidence. Competent evidence
(evidence admissible in a court of law) shall be preferred whenever reasonably
available.
            2.   The term COMPETENT EVIDENCE shall not preclude reliance by the
Board on evidence that would not be admissible under the rules of evidence as
applied in the trial division of the state courts: (i) except for items noted
in sub-subdivisions (C)(7)(a)2.a., (C)(7)(a)2.b. and/or (C)(7)(a)2.c. below
that are deemed to be conclusively incompetent; (ii) the evidence was admitted
without objection; or (iii) the evidence appears to be sufficiently trustworthy
and was admitted under such circumstances that it was reasonable for the Board
to rely upon it. The term COMPETENT EVIDENCE, as used in this subsection (C)(7)
(a)2., shall, regardless of the lack of a timely objection, not be deemed to
include the opinion testimony of lay witnesses as to any of the following:
               a.   The use of property in a particular way would affect the
value of other property;
               b.   The increase in vehicular traffic resulting from a proposed
development would pose a danger to the public safety; and
               c.   Matters about which only expert testimony would generally
be admissible under the rules of evidence.
         (b)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the
reviewing authority to reach the conclusions of law required for variances,
certificates of appropriateness and special use permits, as well as the burden
of persuasion on those issues remains with the applicant or proponent, except
that in an appeal of a staff decision, the staff has the initial burden of
presenting evidence to justify the staff’s initial order or decision that is
being appealed.
      (8)   Voting.
         (a)   Variances shall be approved by a four-fifths majority of the
Board.
         (b)   All other decisions made by a Board hearing a quasi-judicial
matter require a simple majority.
      (9)   Board action.
         (a)   Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing and reflect the Board’s determination of contested
facts and conclusions of law and their application to the applicable ordinance
standards.
         (b)   The Board shall make its decision in a reasonable time. The
Board may continue a hearing to another time. The Board may conduct the public
testimony phase of the hearing at one meeting and make findings of fact and
conclusions of law at another meeting. The parties may agree to continuances,
subject to Board approval.
      (10)   Appeals to the county superior court. Every quasi-judicial
decision shall be subject to review by the county superior court by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari. A petition for review shall be filed with the
clerk of superior court by the later of 30 days after the decision is effective
or after a written copy thereof is provided in accordance with §
327, Written Notice of Decision. When first-class mail is used to deliver a
notice, three days shall be added to the time to file the petition.
   (D)   Other public hearings. Decisions by the Board of Commissioners on a
site plan application shall be conducted as a public hearing following
notification of the public in accordance with §
324, Public Notices.
   (E)   Record.
      (1)   A recording shall be made of all public hearings and the recordings
shall be kept for at least two years.
      (2)   Accurate minutes shall also be kept of all proceedings, but a
transcript need not be made.
      (3)   Whenever practicable, all documentary evidence presented at a
hearing as well as all other types of physical evidence shall be made a part of
the record of the proceedings and shall be maintained by the county in
accordance with its records retention policies.
§ 326 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Conditions of approval may be applied to the approval of an
application subject to a quasi-judicial procedure as identified in
Table 1, Summary of Procedures, as deemed necessary by a review authority.
   (B)   Conditions of approval shall be limited in both type and amount to
those that address:
      (1)   The conformance of the development to this ordinance or other
applicable town ordinances;
      (2)   The conformance of the development to the adopted policy guidance;
and
      (3)   The impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
on the public and surrounding land.
   (C)   All conditions of approval shall be expressly set forth in the
development permit or approval and may be subject to appeal in accordance with
§
3301, Appeals.
   (D)   Conditions of approval on conditional district rezonings must be
consented to by both the deciding Board and the applicant.
§ 327 WRITTEN NOTICE OF DECISION.
   (A)   Procedure. The written decision shall be signed by the Chair or other
duly authorized member of the Board. A quasi-judicial decision is effective
upon either: (i) filing the written decision with the Board of Adjustment
secretary; or (ii) delivery as provided in subsection (C) below, whichever is
later.
   (B)   Content. The notification of decision on an application shall be
issued in the name of the applicant or applicant’s agent, as appropriate,
directed to: (i) the applicant; (ii) the landowner, both to the address(es)
identified in the application materials; (iii) the other parties in interest
(if any); and (iv) any persons who make a written request for a copy of the
determination to the Town Planner. The notice shall identify the following:
      (1)   The land or matter subject to the application;
      (2)   A reference to any approved plans, as appropriate;
      (3)   The approved use(s), if any;
      (4)   Any conditions of approval or other applicable requirements; and
      (5)   Any order, finding or certificate approved and issued.
   (C)   Timing.
      (1)   Except where otherwise stated in this ordinance, the Town Planner
shall provide the applicant written notification of a decision or action within
ten business days after a final decision on a development application.
      (2)   The decision of the Board shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail or by first-class mail. The Town Planner shall certify that
proper notice has been made if required.
   (D)   Copy of decision. In addition to providing notification of a decision
on an application to an applicant, the Town Planner shall make a copy of the
decision available to the public in his or her offices at Town Hall during
normal business hours.
§ 328 EFFECT OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Effect. Approval of a development application in accordance with this
ordinance authorizes only the particular use, plan for development or other
specific activity approved.
   (B)   Permit prerequisite. In the event a permit or development approval is
a prerequisite to another permit or development approval (e.g., administrative
adjustment or variance approval prior to a site plan approval), development may
not take place until all prerequisite approvals are obtained. Approval of one
development application does not guarantee approval of any subsequent
development application.
   (C)   Transfer.
      (1)   Except when otherwise specified, development approvals run with the
land and may be transferred from one owner to another, provided the land,
structure or use type continues to be used for the same purpose for which the
approval was granted.
      (2)   The terms and requirements of the approval shall continue to apply
to all subsequent owners or interests.
§ 329 PHASED DEVELOPMENT.
   In the case of phased development, such as planned unit developments, mixed
use developments, site plans and major subdivisions, shall include:
   (A)   An illustration of all of the phases of the development;
   (B)   A schedule for completion of public and private infrastructure
associated with the development; and
   (C)   All necessary improvements within the phase as well as outside the
phase, but necessary to serve the development within the phase being proposed
for construction first.
§ 329.1 MODIFICATION, CONTINUANCE OR WITHDRAWAL.
   (A)   Modification of application. An applicant may revise an application
during a public hearing in response to recommendations or suggestions of the
Board.
      (1)   In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the
hearing or to suggestions or recommendations by the Board, the applicant may
agree to modify his or her application in writing, including the plans and
specifications submitted. In the alternative, the Board may continue the
hearing so that the application and/or plans may be revised and submitted to
the town.
      (2)   Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that the
Board cannot reasonably be expected to perceive the nature and impact of the
proposed changes without revised plans before it, the Board may approve the
application with the stipulation that the permit will not be issued until plans
reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to the Board’s secretary.
      (3)   The review authority may approve an application modified during a
public hearing, provided that a zoning compliance certificate will not be
issued until plans reflecting the agreed upon changes are submitted to and
approved by the appropriate town staff members.
   (B)   Continuances and withdrawals. The Board may continue the hearing until
a subsequent meeting to take additional information. No further notice of a
continued hearing need be published unless a period of 60 days or more elapses
between hearing dates. An applicant may request that a review authority’s
consideration of an application at public meeting or hearing be continued by
submitting a written request to the Town Planner.
      (1)   Town Planner action. If public notice has not been provided in
accordance with this ordinance prior to the request for a continuance, the Town
Planner shall consider and decide the request. A request for continuance shall
be approved only in cases where the applicant needs additional time to prepare
evidence, secure approval from outside agencies or bring the application into
closer alignment with the adopted policy guidance or the requirements of this
ordinance.
      (2)   Review authority action.
         (a)   If public notice has been provided in accordance with this
ordinance prior to a request for a continuance, the request for continuance
shall be placed on the agenda of the review authority on the date the
application is to be considered. The review authority may approve the request
for good cause.
         (b)   The applicant shall be responsible for any additional public
notification expenses.
   (C)   Continuance of public hearing.
      (1)   The Board may continue a public hearing until a subsequent meeting
and may keep the hearing open to receive additional information up to the point
when a final decision is made.
      (2)   No further notice of a continued hearing is required unless a
period of eight or more weeks lapses between hearing dates.
   (D)   Withdrawal.
      (1)   An applicant may withdraw an application at any time.
      (2)   If an applicant withdraws an application for the same land after
public notification two times within a single calendar year, the same
application may not be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of
the second withdrawal. Application fees for withdrawn applications shall not be
refunded.
§ 329.2 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   If a development application requiring a public hearing is denied, no
application proposing the same or similar development on all or part of the
same land shall be submitted within one year after the date of denial unless
the review authority approves a reduction in this time limit in accordance with
subsection (B) below. For the purpose of this section, THE SAME OR SIMILAR
DEVELOPMENT shall mean:
      (1)   The same use type(s) in the same approximate location(s) as the
denied application; or
      (2)   The same use type(s) in the same approximate building configuration
(e.g., building height, floor area, massing) as the denied application.
   (B)   The owner of land subject to this subsection (B), or the owner’s
authorized agent, may submit a written request for reduction of the time limit,
along with a fee to defray the cost of processing the request, to the Town
Planner, who shall transmit the request to the review authority. The review
authority may grant the request only on a finding by a majority of its
membership that the owner or agent has demonstrated that:
      (1)   There is a substantial change in circumstances relevant to the
issues or facts considered during review of the prior application that might
reasonably affect the review authority’s application of the relevant review
standards to the development proposed in the new application;
      (2)   New or additional information is available that was not available
at the time of review of the prior application and that might reasonably affect
the review authority’s application of the relevant review standards to the
development proposed in the new application;
      (3)   The new application proposed to be submitted is materially
different from the prior application; or
      (4)   The final decision on the prior application was based on a material
mistake of fact.
DIVISION 3. SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS.
§ 3300 ADMINISTRATIVE MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This is a new procedure created by the General Assembly in 2020
that allows the Town Planner to administratively reduce a numeric standard by
up to 10% as a “safety valve” to accommodate difficult sites or unexpected
conditions without having to require a variance, or an amendment to an approved
preliminary subdivision plat, site plan, conditional district rezoning or
special use permit.
      (2)   There are specific criteria that clarify when this can be used, and
for what purposes. Requests exceeding 10% would be required to obtain a
variance or the applicant could choose to file an amendment to the original
approval.
   (B)   Applicability. Administrative modifications may not change:
      (1)   The permitted uses; and
      (2)   The permitted density of the overall development or any phase
lines.
   (C)   Examples of adjustments that may be made by the Town Planner.
      (1)   Changes to the location of entrances or driveways, minor
rearrangement of internal streets, turn lanes, drives or access restrictions;
      (2)   Increases in or changes to the configuration of parking areas;
      (3)   Increases in or changes to the configuration or location of open
space or placement of required amenities;
      (4)   Changes to the arrangement or location of buildings, provided there
is no increase in number;
      (5)   Changes to the proposed building elevation or facade, including
materials, provided that the change retains the same general architectural
character and same building height;
      (6)   Changes to the configuration of landscape yards, including types of
materials, provided the screening function is maintained;
      (7)   Decreases in residential density or nonresidential gross floor
area; and
      (8)   Minor changes to lot line locations, provided there is no increase
in the total number of lots and provided all lots comply with the dimensional
requirements for the zoning district where located.
   (D)   Procedure. The owner or owner’s agent shall request an adjustment in
writing:
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Mandatory (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference);
      (2)   Application submittal. Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance); and
      (3)   Staff review and action. Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
   (E)   Decision. The Town Planner shall have ten business days to issue a
written decision and approve or deny the adjustment.
   (F)   Review criteria. The Town Planner shall review the application based
on the standards of the adjustment requested. For example, a request for a
variance shall be reviewed using the standards for a variance. An
administrative adjustment shall be approved if the applicant demonstrates all
of the following:
      (1)   The administrative adjustment:
         (a)   Is required to compensate for some unusual aspect of the site or
the proposed development that is not shared by landowners in general;
         (b)   Supports an objective or goal from the purpose and intent
statements of the zoning district where it is located;
         (c)   Is necessary to allow for proper functioning of on-site
wastewater or stormwater management devices;
         (d)   Saves healthy existing trees;
         (e)   The administrative adjustment does not exceed the maximum
allowable threshold;
         (f)   The administrative adjustment is consistent with the character
of development on surrounding land and is compatible with surrounding land
uses;
         (g)   The administrative adjustment will not pose a danger to the
public health or safety;
         (h)   The administrative adjustment will not have a negative impact on
the function or performance of on-site wastewater or stormwater management
structures;
         (i)   Adverse impacts resulting from the administrative adjustment
will be fully mitigated; and
         (j)   The development standard being adjusted is not the subject of a
previously approved administrative adjustment on the same site.
   (G)   Amendment.
      (1)   A second adjustment to the same standard, ordinance or approval is
not available, except in cases where the cause of the second adjustment is not
caused by the owner or owner’s agents. In no case will the first and any
subsequent adjustments be greater than a 10% deviation from the original.
      (2)   Example: Landowner seeks a 5% side yard setback adjustment for an
accessory building. The setback is ten feet. The Town Planner grants an
adjustment of six inches. Upon digging foundations, the landowner strikes
bedrock. The landowner asks for a second adjustment. The Town Planner may grant
a second six-inch adjustment.
   (H)   Expiration. Adjustments expire at the same time as the permit being
adjusted would have expired without the adjustment.
   (I)   Appeal. The landowner or landowner’s agent may apply for an amendment
to the permit for which the adjustment was sought or bring an appeal under §
3301, Appeals.
§ 3301 APPEALS.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall determine contested facts. The
decision of the Board shall be based on competent, material and substantial
evidence in the record. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm (wholly
or partly) or may modify the order, requirement or decision or determination
appealed from and shall issue a written decision containing the Board’s
decisions as to contested facts and the application of the facts to the
standards of the zoning ordinance. To this end, the Board of Adjustment shall
have all the powers of the town staff from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   An appeal from any final administrative order or decision of the
town staff charged with enforcement of the UDO may be taken to the Board of
Adjustment by any person with standing, as defined in §
325(C)(6), Public Meetings and Hearings. An appeal is taken by filing a written
notice of appeal specifying the grounds with the Board of Adjustment secretary.
A notice of appeal shall be considered filed with the town and the Board of
Adjustment when delivered to the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Time to appeal. The property owner, applicant or other party with
standing shall have 30 days from the receipt of written notice to file an
appeal. If delivery of the decision is by first-class mail, the time to appeal
shall be 33 days unless the appellant provides evidence of the date of
delivery.
   (C)   Stay of enforcement actions. An appeal stays all actions by the town
enforcing the requirements of the zoning ordinance unless the town staff who
made the decision files an affidavit with the Board stating the facts of the
case and how a stay of enforcement will cause imminent peril to life or
property or that a stay would interfere with ordinance enforcement because the
violation is transitory. If the enforcement action is not stayed by the county
superior court, the person appealing may file a request that the Board hear the
matter in 15 calendar days. The 15-day deadline is mandatory.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   After receipt of notice of an appeal, the Board of Adjustment
secretary shall schedule the time for a hearing which shall be at the next
regular or special meeting, but in no case later than 60 days from the filing
of notice of appeal.
      (2)   Written notice of the appeal shall be sent to the appellant,
property owner, applicant and all abutting property owners by the town staff
following the procedures in §
324, Public Notices.
      (3)   The town staff who made the decision shall send all documents and
exhibits constituting the record of the decision being appealed to the Board of
Adjustment, the person who made the appeal and the owner of the property.
      (4)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment, the designated
town staff shall have the initial burden of presenting to the Board sufficient
evidence and argument to justify the order or decision appealed from. The
burden of presenting evidence and argument to the contrary then shifts to the
appellant, who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
      (5)   The staff who made the decision, or the current incumbent in that
position, shall appear as a witness at the hearing.
      (6)   The Board shall hear the appeal following the procedural rules in §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings.
      (7)   The Board shall make its decision in a reasonable time following
the requirements of §§
325, Public Meetings and Hearings, and
327, Written Notice of Decision.
§ 3302 BUILDING PERMIT.
   The County Building Inspections Department issues building permits after
receiving a zoning compliance certificate issued by the Town Planner or
designee.
§ 3302.1CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference following the
requirements of §
320, Pre-Application Conference, is required.
   (B)   Application. Applications shall be submitted and reviewed by the Town
Planner in accordance with §§
322, Application Filing and Acceptance, and
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action.
   (C)   Public notice and hearing. The Town Planner shall cause public notice
to be made according to §
324, Public Notices. The Historic Preservation Commission shall hold a quasi-
judicial public hearing according to the requirements of §§
325, Public Meetings and Hearings, and
3302.1, Certificate of Appropriateness.
   (D)   Decision and notice. The Historic Preservation Commission shall issue
a written decision per the requirements of §
453, Site Plan Review. The Town Planner shall notify his or her applicant
property owner and other interested parties per the requirements of §
327, Written Notice of Decision.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals may be made to the county superior court in 30 days
as provided by G.S. § 160D-1402.
§ 3303 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; ZONING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
   The County Building Inspections Department issues certificates of occupancy
after the Town Planner checks the site for compliance with the UDO, any town-
issued permits and town policies, procedures and guidelines. The Town Planner
will provide the zoning compliance certificate and forward it to the county.
(See §
3323, Zoning Compliance Certificate.)
§ 3304 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Comprehensive plan required. The Board of Commissioners shall adopt
and reasonably maintain a comprehensive plan that sets forth goals, policies
and programs intended to guide the present and future physical, social and
economic development of the town. A comprehensive plan is required by G.S. §
160D-501(a) in order to adopt and apply zoning ordinances.
   (B)   Adoption and effect. Adoption and amendment of the comprehensive plan
will follow the same procedure as zoning text amendments. The Planning Board
shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of Commissioners on plans
and their amendments.
   (C)   Effect of zoning map amendments. If a zoning map amendment is adopted
that is deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall
also automatically amend the future land use plan map in the approved plan, and
no additional request or application is required.
      (1)   A plan amendment and a zoning map amendment may be considered
concurrently.
   (D)   Comprehensive plan amendment procedure. The comprehensive plan may be
amended by submitting an application on a form provided by the Town Planner.
The procedure to be followed is the same as for zoning map amendments.
   (E)   Comprehensive plan defined. The comprehensive plan, with the
accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive matter, shall show the Board
of Commissioner’s policies and intentions for coordinated, efficient and
orderly development of the town based on an analysis of present and future
needs. The planning process shall include opportunities for citizen engagement
in plan preparation and adoption. The comprehensive plan may include issues and
opportunities facing the town, including:
      (1)   Consideration of trends, values expressed by citizens, community
vision and guiding principles for growth and development;
      (2)   The pattern of desired growth and development and civic design,
including the location, distribution and characteristics of future land uses,
urban form, utilities and transportation networks;
      (3)   Employment opportunities, economic development and community
development;
      (4)   Acceptable levels of public services and infrastructure to support
development, including water, waste disposal, utilities, emergency services,
transportation, education, recreation, community facilities and other public
services, including plans and policies for provision of financing for public
infrastructure;
      (5)   Housing with a range of types and affordability to accommodate
persons and households of all types and incomes;
      (6)   Recreation and open spaces;
      (7)   Mitigation of natural hazards such as flooding, winds, wildfires
and unstable lands;
      (8)   Protection of the environment and natural resources, including
agricultural resources, mineral resources and water and air quality;
      (9)   Protection of significant architectural, scenic, cultural,
historical or archaeological resources; and
      (10)   Analysis and evaluation of implementation measures, including
regulations, public investments and educational programs.
§ 3305 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION.
   Conservation subdivisions shall be approved through the site plan (§
3317, Site Plan), preliminary major subdivision plat (§
3310, Major Subdivision), application procedure and approval process (§
785, Application Procedure and Approval Process) and final subdivision plat (§
3309, Final Plat) processes.
§ 3306 DETERMINATIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. There are two distinct types of determinations. The first
type is questions of interpretation of the official zoning map (OZM). The Board
of Adjustment interprets the zoning map and passes upon disputed questions of
lot lines or district boundary lines and similar questions. If such questions
arise in the context of an appeal from a decision of the town, they shall be
handled as provided in §
3301, Appeals. The second type is a process to allow an applicant to obtain a
written interpretation of: (i) the meaning of a word, phrase, clause section or
division of the UDO; or (ii) the meaning of a permit issued pursuant to this
UDO.
   (B)   Interpretation of the official zoning map.
      (1)   Application. An application for a map interpretation shall be
submitted to the Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with
the Board of Adjustment secretary. The application shall contain sufficient
information to enable the Board to make the necessary interpretation.
      (2)   Standards. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries shown on
the town’s official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines
of alleys, streets, highways, streams or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
         (b)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, town
limits, shall be construed as following such lines, limits or boundaries.
         (c)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed
to follow such shorelines, and, in the event of change in the shoreline, shall
be construed as following such shorelines.
         (d)   Where a district boundary divides a lot or where distances are
not specifically indicated, the boundary shall be determined by measurements
from the town’s zoning map.
   (C)   Determinations of the meaning of the UDO.
      (1)   Applicability. The Town Planner is responsible for written
interpretations, including, but not limited to, interpretations of:
         (a)   The meaning of the text in this ordinance;
         (b)   Interpretations of whether an unlisted use is comparable to a
use listed in §
527, the Principal Uses Table;
         (c)   Definitions of undefined terms; and
         (d)   Compliance with conditions of approval.
      (2)   Interpretations distinguished.
         (a)   Only formal interpretations issued in accordance with this
procedure are subject to appeal as an administrative decision.
         (b)   Any written or oral interpretations that do not meet the strict
requirements of this section are advisory interpretations.
         (c)   Advisory interpretations have no binding effect and are not
considered formal interpretations subject to appeal.
      (3)   Interpretation procedure.
         (a)   Pre-application conference. Optional (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference).
         (b)   Application submittal and acceptance. Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance). Any person may request a formal
interpretation of any provision of this ordinance, the location of a zoning
district boundary, how a proposed use may be treated, a definition or a prior
condition of approval, provided the request:
            1.   Relates to a specific parcel of property, section of this UDO
or prior development approval;
            2.   Is made in writing; and
            3.   States all of the necessary facts to make the interpretation
or enable research.
         (c)   If a request relates to a particular lot or site and the
applicant is not the owner, agent or contract purchaser, the applicant must
certify that a copy of the request has been provided to the landowner prior to
submittal to the town.
      (4)   Staff review and action.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
         (b)   The Town Planner shall review the request and make
interpretations in accordance with subsection (C)(5) below, Interpretation
review standards.
         (c)   The Town Planner may request additional information from an
applicant as necessary to make an interpretation.
         (d)   Prior to rendering an interpretation, the Town Planner may
consult with the Town Attorney, Project Review Committee or other town
officials.
      (5)   Interpretation review standards.
         (a)   Unlisted uses. Interpretation of whether an unlisted use is
similar to a use identified in the Principal Uses Table shall be based on
consistency with the town’s adopted plan(s) and the following standards:
            1.   The function, product or physical characteristics of the use;
            2.   The impact on adjacent lands created by the use;
            3.   The type, size and nature of buildings and structures
associated with the use;
            4.   The type of sales (retail, wholesale) and the size and type of
items sold and displayed on the premises;
            5.   The types of items stored (such as vehicles, inventory,
merchandise, chemicals, construction materials, scrap and junk and raw
materials, including liquids and powders).
            6.   The volume and type of vehicle traffic generated by the use
and the parking demands of the use;
            7.   Any processing associated with the use, including assembly,
manufacturing, warehousing, shipping, distribution and whether it occurs inside
or outside a building;
            8.   Any dangerous, hazardous, toxic or explosive materials
associated with the use;
            9.   The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the
premises, including, but not limited to, noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration,
radiation and fumes; and
            10.   Any prior applicable interpretations made by the Town Planner
or decisions made by the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   Undefined term. If a term in this ordinance is undefined or the
meaning is unclear, the Town Planner may interpret the term based upon
appropriate definitions in any of the following sources:
            1.   Planning-related definitions in publications prepared or
offered by the American Planning Association or the Urban Land Institute;
            2.   The Oxford Dictionary of Construction, Surveying and Civil
Engineering;
            3.   The state statutes;
            4.   The State Administrative Code;
            5.   The State Building Code;
            6.   Black’s Law Dictionary; or
            7.   Other professionally accepted source.
         (c)   Text provisions and prior approvals. Interpretation of this text
and approved applications shall be based on the standards in
Article 10, Measurement and Definitions, and the following considerations:
            1.   When the legislative intent of a provision is unclear, the
Town Planner shall consider the clear and plain meaning of the provision’s
wording, as defined by the meaning and significance given specific terms used
in the provision, as established in §
1030, Defined Terms, and/or by the common and accepted usage of the term;
            2.   The intended purpose of the provision, as indicated by purpose
statements, its context and consistency with surrounding and related
provisions, and any legislative history related to its adoption;
            3.   The general purposes served by this ordinance, as set forth in
§
115, Purpose and Intent; and
            4.   Consistency with the town’s adopted plan(s).
      (6)   Effect.
         (a)   A written interpretation shall be binding on subsequent
decisions by the Town Planner or other administrative officials in applying the
same provision of this ordinance or the official zoning map (OZM) in the same
circumstance, unless the interpretation is modified in accordance with this
section, the interpretation is later determined to have been made in error or
the text of this ordinance is amended.
         (b)   The Town Planner shall maintain a record of written
interpretations that shall be available in the Planning Department for public
inspection, on reasonable request, during normal business hours.
         (c)   After the Town Planner determines the use category or use type
in which the unlisted use is best classified, then the unlisted use shall be
subject to all applicable requirements of that use category or use type.
         (d)   After making an interpretation of an unlisted use, the Town
Planner shall determine whether the unlisted use is likely to be common or
recur frequently, and whether its omission is likely to lead to uncertainty and
confusion. On determining that the unlisted use is likely to be common and
would lead to confusion if unlisted, the Town Planner shall initiate an
application for an amendment to the text of this ordinance. Until final action
is taken on the text amendment, the Town Planner’s decision shall be binding.
         (e)   If after making an interpretation of an unlisted use, the Town
Planner determines that the unlisted use is of an unusual or transitory nature,
and unlikely to recur frequently, the determination shall be binding without
further action or amendment of this ordinance.
      (7)   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on an interpretation made by the Town
Planner shall be reviewed and decided by the Board of Adjustment in the nature
of certiorari and in accordance with §
3301, Appeals.
§ 3307 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Introduction and purpose. Development projects often occur in multiple
phases over several years, requiring a long-term commitment of public and
private resources. Such developments may create community impacts and
opportunities that are difficult to accommodate within traditional zoning
processes. Because of their scale and duration, such projects require careful
coordination of public capital facilities planning, financing and construction
schedules and phasing of the private development. Such large projects involve
substantial commitment of private capital, which developers are usually
unwilling to risk without sufficient assurances that development standards will
remain stable through the extended period of the development. Such developments
often permit the town and developers to experiment with different or non-
traditional types of development standards and concepts while managing impacts
on surrounding areas. To better structure and manage development approvals for
such developments and ensure their proper integration into local capital
facilities programs, the town needs flexibility to negotiate such developments.
Therefore, the town may enter into developments agreements subject to the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Powers supplemental. Development authorized by a development agreement
shall comply with all applicable laws, including town ordinances affecting the
development of property. The section is supplemental to the powers conferred on
the town and does not preclude or supersede the other provisions of this zoning
ordinance. When the Board of Commissioners approves rezoning of any property
associated with an executed and recorded development agreement, the provisions
of §§
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, and/or
3320, Text Amendment, apply.
   (C)   Procedure and Board of Commissioners approval required.
      (1)   A pre-application conference is required, per §
320, Pre-Application Conference.
      (2)   An application is required, per §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance.
      (3)   Following Town Planner and Development Review Committee review and
comment, per §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action, the Planning
Board will review and comment as it does on rezoning/map amendments, per §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment.
      (4)   Major modifications of development agreements must be approved by
the Board of Commissioners following a notice and a public hearing. The notice
and public hearing shall follow the requirements for notice found in §§
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, or
3319, Text Amendment. In addition, the notice must specify the property subject
to the development agreement, the uses proposed for the property, and where a
copy of the proposed development agreement may be obtained or inspected.
      (5)   The Board of Commissioners may adopt a development agreement as an
ordinance, or as a part of this ordinance. A development agreement may be
considered concurrently with a zoning map or text amendment affecting the
property subject to the agreement, a preliminary subdivision plat, a site plan,
other permit found in this zoning ordinance. A written notice of decision is
required per §
327, Written Notice of Decision.
   (D)   Size and duration. The development agreement shall be of a reasonable
term specified in the agreement. A development agreement may include
developable property of any size.
   (E)   Contents of development agreement. A development agreement shall
contain at least all of the following:
      (1)   A legal description of the property subject to the agreement and
the names of its legal and equitable property owners;
      (2)   The duration of the agreement. However, the parties are not
precluded from entering into subsequent development agreements that may extend
the original duration period;
      (3)   The development uses permitted on the property, including
population densities, and building types, intensities, placement on the site
and design;
      (4)   (a)   A description of public facilities that will service the
development, including who provides the facilities, the date any new public
facilities, if needed, will be constructed and a schedule to assure public
facilities are available concurrent with the impacts of the development.
         (b)   If the development agreement provides that the town will provide
certain public facilities, the agreement shall provide that the delivery date
of the public facilities is tied to successful performance by the developer in
implementing the proposed development, such as meeting defined completion
percentages or other performance standards;
      (5)   A description, where appropriate, of any reservation or dedication
of land for public purposes and any provisions to protect environmentally
sensitive property;
      (6)   A description of all town development permits approved or needed to
be approved for the development of the property together with a statement
indicating that the failure of the agreement to address a particular permit,
condition, term or restriction does not relieve the developer of the necessity
of complying with the law governing their permitting requirements, conditions,
terms or restrictions;
      (7)   A description of any conditions, terms, restrictions or other
requirements determined to be necessary by the town for the public health,
safety or welfare of its citizens;
      (8)   A description, where appropriate, of any provisions for the
preservation and restoration of historic structures;
      (9)   A development schedule, including commencement dates and interim
completion dates at no greater than five-year intervals; provided, however,
that the failure to meet a commencement or completion date shall not, in and of
itself, constitute a material breach of the development agreement pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-1008 but must be judged based upon the totality of the
circumstances;
      (10)   A provision that the Town Planner periodically review the
development agreement, at which time the developer shall demonstrate good faith
compliance with the terms of the agreement; and
      (11)   A development agreement may provide some or all of the following:
         (a)   A definition of what constitutes a major modification;
         (b)   A provision that the entire development or any phase be
commenced or completed by a date certain;
         (c)   Any other matter, including defined performance standards,
mutually acceptable terms regarding provision of public facilities and other
amenities and the allocation of financial responsibility for their provision,
provided any impact mitigation measures offered by the developer beyond those
that could be required by the town under G.S. § 160D-804 shall be expressly
enumerated and provided that the agreement contain no tax or impact fee not
authorized by law;
         (d)   Performance guarantees in compliance with G.S. § 160D-804(d);
and
         (e)   Penalties available for breach in lieu of termination of an
agreement, including, but not limited to, penalties allowed for violation of
this ordinance.
   (F)   Record development agreement.
      (1)   The developer shall record the development agreement at the County
Register of Deeds within 14 days of execution of an agreement. No permits may
be issued until an agreement is recorded.
      (2)   The burdens of a development agreement are binding upon, and the
benefits of the agreement shall inure, to all successors in interest to the
parties to the agreement.
   (G)   Procedures to approve debt. If any obligation of the town in a
development agreement constitutes debt, the Board of Commissioners shall comply
with any applicable constitutional and statutory procedures for approval of the
debt, at the time of the obligation to incur the debt and before the debt
becomes enforceable against the town.
   (H)   Breach and cure. If the town finds and determines that the developer
has committed a material breach to a development agreement, the town shall
notify the developer in writing, setting forth with reasonable particularity
the nature of the breach and evidence supporting the finding and providing the
developer a reasonable time in which to cure the material breach.
      (1)   If the developer fails to cure the material breach within the time
given, then the town may terminate or modify the development agreement,
provided the notice of termination or modification may be appealed to the Board
of Adjustment in the manner provided by §
3301, Appeals.
      (2)   Any party to a development agreement may enforce the agreement
notwithstanding any changes to the town’s development regulations made
subsequent to the date of the agreement. Any party to the agreement may file an
action of injunctive relief to enforce the terms of a development agreement.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT. The planning for or carrying out of a building activity, the
making of a material change in the use or appearance of any structure or
property, or the dividing of land into two or more parcels.
         (a)   DEVELOPMENT, as designated in a law or development permit,
includes the planning for and all other activity customarily associated with it
unless otherwise specified. When appropriate to the context, DEVELOPMENT refers
to the planning for or the act of developing or to the result of development.
         (b)   Reference to a specific operation is not intended to mean that
the operation or activity, when part of other operations or activities, is not
DEVELOPMENT. Reference to particular operations is not intended to limit the
generality of this item.
      PUBLIC FACILITIES. Major capital improvements, including, but not limited
to, transportation, sanitary sewer, solid waste, drainage, potable water,
educational, parks and recreational, and health systems and facilities.
§ 3308 EXPEDITED AND EXEMPT SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Expedited exception for subdivision of land in single ownership
established by G.S. § 1600-802. In reviewing expedited subdivisions, the Town
Planner shall follow the procedure in subsection (B)(2)(b) below. The Town
Planner will review and approve a final plat prior to recordation and sign the
required certificates, only if all the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The division will not create parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this subsection (A) in the ten years prior to division;
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres;
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division;
and
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   Any lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land use
regulations, if any;
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements, if any; and
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
   (B)   Exempt subdivision certification.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose for this exempt subdivision
procedure is to establish a clear and predictable procedure for the town to
determine and document that a proposed division of land is exempted from the
subdivision requirements of this ordinance in accordance with G.S. § 160D-802.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   The following forms of land division (see
Figure 1, Exempt Subdivision) are exempt subdivisions exempted from the
subdivision requirements of this ordinance (but not from the provisions in this
section):
            1.   A combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots that does not increase the total number of lots,
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this ordinance;
            2.   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
            3.   Public acquisition involving the purchase of strips of land
for the widening or opening of streets;
            4.   Division of a tract of land in single ownership, where the
total area of all land in the land division is no greater than two acres, the
division creates no more than three lots, where no street right-of-way
dedication is involved, and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of this ordinance;
            5.   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with G.S. Chapter 29; or
            6.   Divisions of land that are not consistent with these criteria
shall not be considered exempt subdivisions and shall be subject to the
applicable review procedure and subdivision requirements of this UDO.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.png]
 
Figure 1
         (b)    Subdivision exemption or exception review procedure.
            1.   Pre-application conference. Optional (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference).
            2.   Application submittal. Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance).
               a.   An application for exempt subdivision determination may be
filed by the Town Planner, the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners, a
landowner or a contract purchaser.
               b.   Except for subdivisions where all lots shall be served by a
central wastewater system, applications for a subdivision exemption shall
include an evaluation from the County Environmental Health Department
indicating that an on-site wastewater system may be used on each lot included
in the subdivision.
            3.   Staff review and action.
               a.   Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
               b.   The Town Planner shall review the application in accordance
with subsection (B)(2)(d) below, Exempt subdivision review standards, and
certify that the land division qualifies as an exempt subdivision.
         (c)   Recordation. If an exempt subdivision plat or other document is
prepared by the applicant, it shall be certified by the Town Planner and shall
be recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
         (d)   Exempt subdivision review standards. A division of land shall be
certified as an exempt subdivision if it:
            1.   Is excluded from the definition of a subdivision in accordance
with G.S. § 160D-802, Applicability;
            2.   Complies with all applicable standards in
Article 4, Zoning Districts;
            3.   Complies with all standards or conditions of any applicable
permits and development approvals; and
            4.   Complies with all other applicable requirements in the town’s
code of ordinances.
         (e)   Effect. A division of land determined to be an exempt
subdivision shall be exempted from the subdivision standards of this ordinance,
but development of land within an exempt subdivision shall remain subject to
the requirements for an improvement permit from the County Health Department,
as well as all applicable standards in this ordinance. In the event a division
of land does not qualify as an exempt subdivision, it shall be reviewed in
accordance with the applicable subdivision procedure and shall be subject to
all applicable subdivision standards in this ordinance.
      (3)   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on an expedited or exempt subdivision
shall be reviewed and decided by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
3301, Appeals.
§ 3309 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Application requirements. Applications for final plat approval of
subdivisions shall be filed with the Town Planner. The Town Planner shall
prescribe the form of application, as well as any other material he or she may
reasonably require to determine compliance with this division. Final plats
shall comply with the mapping requirements of this section and
Article 7, including the certification and endorsement requirements of Division
9, Plat Certificates. For major subdivisions, a preliminary plat for the lots
shown on the proposed final plat must have been approved and not expired before
a final plat approval application may be accepted. As part of the application
for final plat approval, the applicant shall certify one of the following:
      (1)   All required improvements (streets, utilities, storm drainage
facilities, street signs and facilities for common use, if any) approved as
part of the preliminary plat approval and serving lots shown on the final plat
have been completed;
      (2)   A performance guarantee has been posted and approved by the town;
or
      (3)   The development requires only review of the final plat per this
section.
   (B)   Town Planner’s action. When the Town Planner accepts an application
for final plat approval of a subdivision, the Town Planner shall determine if
the final plat conforms to all applicable regulations and to an approved valid
preliminary plat if a major subdivision. He or she shall approve or deny the
application.
   (C)   Actions subsequent to decision. If an application for final plat
approval of a subdivision is approved, the Town Planner shall endorse his or
her approval on a minimum of two reproducible Mylar originals of the final
plat. The applicant shall record the final plat in the office of the County
Register of Deeds. Approval of any final plat is void if it is not properly
recorded within 60 calendar days after the Town Planner’s endorsement of the
approval. The Town Planner may extend this deadline, provided the applicant has
demonstrated a good faith effort to comply with the deadline, but for reasons
beyond his or her control, fails to meet the requirements of the Register of
Deeds for recordation within that period. Such plat shall conform to the
drawing specifications, certifications and endorsement requirements of this
section,
Article 7, Subdivisions, and
Article 7, Division 9, Plat Certificates.
   (D)   Appeal of decision. The Town Planner’s decision on a final plat
approval application may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment under an appeal
of administrative decision in §
3301, Appeals.
   (E)   Specifications for drawings.
      (1)   Format. The requirements of this section apply to the format of
drawings.
      (2)   Plat. The plat shall be drawn to the standards of G.S. § 47-30,
Plats and Subdivision; Mapping Requirements, at a scale between 1:100 and 1:20.
Under special circumstances, with the Town Planner’s approval, a preliminary
plat can be drawn to another scale which can clearly and accurately display the
necessary information for review. The plat shall show the following.
      (3)   Title data. Name of the subdivision, the names and addresses of the
owner or owners, name of designer of the plat, scale, date, approximate north
point and in large letters the words “Preliminary Plat.”
      (4)   Existing data. Property lines, street lines and names, greenways,
sidewalks, bicycle facilities, principal buildings, existing utility lines
(water, sewer, electric, gas and the like) watercourses (intermittent and
perennial), wetlands, bridges, public/private easements, names of adjacent
subdivisions, property owners, zoning districts, land uses, distance to nearest
street intersection, voluntary agricultural districts, corporate limits and/or
planning district lines; and an inset sketch map showing the subdivision’s
location in relation to the town and general area.
      (5)   Data relating to subdivision. Names, locations and other dimensions
and/or metes and bounds of proposed streets, lots, easements, building lines,
gross acreage to be developed, development existing and proposed impervious
surfaces, buffers and recreational/open space areas, if appropriate. A
statement describing the water supply and sanitary sewage disposal facilities
proposed to be installed in the subdivision.
      (6)   Floodway data. The boundaries of both the floodway and floodplain,
shown on maps entitled flood hazard boundary map, shall be shown clearly.
      (7)   Dedications for future right-of-way. Whenever land to be subdivided
includes any part of a planned thoroughfare improvement shown on the official
plan(s) adopted by the town, the applicant shall dedicate the right-of-way in
the location and to the width specified in the comprehensive plan or roadway
project to the DOT or HOA, whichever applies. Land reserved for future right-
of-way shall not be counted in satisfying any yard, area or dimensional
requirements.
      (8)   Stormwater management statement as required in
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention.
   (F)   Final plat. The final plat shall show the following.
      (1)   Title and documentation data. Name of subdivision, the township,
the name of the licensed surveyor under whose supervision the plat was
prepared; the date of the plat; the scale and north point; and all endorsements
and certifications required by
Article 7, Division 9, Plat Certificates.
      (2)   Data relating to the subdivision. Lines and names of streets; lines
of all lots, easements, areas devoted to common use, with notes stating clearly
their proposed use, required landscape buffers, any limitations and the person
or entity responsible for continued maintenance; corporate and/or other
boundaries; lots numbered consecutively through the subdivision; building
lines; metes and bounds survey information sufficient to determine readily on
the ground the location of every street, lot line, boundary line, block line,
easements line and building line; the radius central angle, and tangent
distance for both street lines of curved streets, the locations and types of
all permanent monuments; the names of subdivisions, subdivision entrance sign
easement and streets adjoining the platted subdivision; if applicable, the
location of mail kiosk; and designation of all streets and easements within the
subdivision as public or private.
      (3)   State statute. All data shown on the final plat shall be consistent
with the provisions set out in G.S. § 47-30.
      (4)   Easements. All easements and their function shall be shown on the
final plat. Drainage easements shall comply with
Chapter 151 and NCDOT Subdivision Road Standards.
      (5)   Floodway data. The boundaries of both the floodway and 100-year
floodplain zone, as shown on the map entitled “Flood Boundary and Floodway
Map,” shall be shown. The FIRM panel and its adoption date shall be shown.
      (6)   Future streets. All streets intended for future extension either
within or beyond the boundaries of the subdivision shall clearly be indicated
on the plat, by the words “Reserved for Future Public Access.”
      (7)   Subdivision road disclosure statement. The subdivision road
disclosure statement shall be shown on the final plat. All roads shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6, and
designation as a public road shall be conclusively presumed an offer of
dedication to the public. Where roads are dedicated to the public but not
accepted into a municipal or the state system, before lots are sold, a
statement explaining the status of the road shall be noted on the final plat.
      (8)   Plat certificates. As required by
Article 7, Division 9, Plat Certificates, below.
      (9)   Certificates and endorsements on final plat. The certificates and
endorsements in the following table, where applicable, must be shown on all
final plats of subdivisions. See
Article 7, Division 9, Plat Certificates, for examples of the certificates.
Table 3 - Required Certificates
Table 3 - Required Certificates
Exempt    797, 799.3
Expedited 790, 791, 793, 796 ,797, 798, 799.2
          As applicable: 792, 799.1.
Major     790, 791, 792, 793, 794, 796, 797, 798, 799.2
          As applicable, 795, 799, 799.1
Minor     790, 791, 792, 796, 797, 798, 799.2
          As applicable 793, 794, 795, 799, 799.1
 
   (G)   Distribution of recorded plat and recorded covenants. When approved by
the Town Planner, he or she shall endorse his or her approval on a minimum of
two reproducible Mylar originals of the final plat. The Town Planner may
approve a final plat with conditions. The applicant shall record such plats
with the County Register of Deeds, returning one to the Town Planner, along
with a recorded copy of the required covenants, in 30 days. The applicant shall
provide a copy of the recorded plat to the County Departments of Environmental
Health and Public Utilities, as needed.
§ 3309.1 GRADING PERMIT.
   A zoning compliance certificate must be obtained from the Town Planner
before beginning grading. The Town Planner issues grading permits. See the
Engineering Standards and Practices Manual (February 15, 2021, as amended) for
details on grading standards.
§ 3310 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Preliminary plat approval. All major subdivisions must have a
preliminary plat approved by the Planning Board and the Town Board of
Commissioners prior to any construction or final plat approval.
   (B)   Preliminary conference. Required. See §
320, Pre-Application Conference.
   (C)   Neighborhood meeting. Required if the proposed development increases
density or intensity compared to existing development on a property. See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting
   (D)   Application submittal requirements. Applications for major preliminary
plat approval shall be filed with the Town Planner per §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance. The Town Planner shall not accept an
application unless it complies with all UDO requirements (see
Article 7, Subdivisions), including written confirmation that the applicant is
the owner or agent having a valid ownership interest, or a valid enforceable
contract or option for an ownership interest in the property involved. An
incomplete application shall be returned to the applicant, with a notation of
its deficiencies.
   (E)   Town Planner’s report. The Town Planner shall forward to the Planning
Board an analysis of an application for major preliminary plat approval with
his or her recommendation per §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action.
   (F)   Planning Board review and action.
      (1)   After receiving the Town Planner’s report on an application for
major subdivision preliminary plat approval, the Planning Board shall consider
the application at its next regularly scheduled meeting. No formal public
hearing will be held. The Planning Board may hear comments and questions. The
Planning Board may place reasonable and fair limitations on comments, arguments
and questions to avoid undue delay. The applicant shall bear the burden of
establishing that he or she is entitled to approval of the application.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall recommend approval, denial or approval
with conditions to the Town Board of Commissioners on applications for major
subdivision preliminary plat approval after reviewing the application, the Town
Planner’s report and public comment on the application. It shall base its
action on its findings as to conformity with all applicable UDO requirements.
The Planning Board may also table to address deficiencies identified by the
Planning Board.
      (3)   After receiving the Town Planner’s report and the recommendation of
the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners will consider the application at
its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Board shall approve, deny, approve or
table to allow the applicant to address deficiencies in the application. The
Board may impose reasonable conditions on its approval to ensure compliance
with the UDO per §
326, Conditions of Approval.
      (4)   The Town Planner shall notify the applicant in writing of the Board
of Commissioner’s decision and shall file a copy of the decisions.
   (G)   Expiration of preliminary plat approval. Preliminary plat approval, or
re-approval, for a major or commercial subdivision shall be effective for two
years from the date of approval. An extension may be requested of the Board of
Commissioners for an additional two-year period. Otherwise, the vesting
provisions at
Article 1, Division 3 apply.
   (H)   Appeal of decision. The Board of Commissioner’s decision on an
application for a preliminary plat approval for a major subdivision may be
appealed to the county superior court within 30 days from receipt of written
notice of the decision.
   (I)   Conservation subdivisions. The approval of conservation subdivisions
requires several steps before preliminary plats can be accepted for review. See
Article 7, Division 8, Conservation Subdivisions.
§ 3311 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Application submittal requirements. A pre-application conference is
optional. Applications for minor subdivision approval, along with any required
fees, shall be filed with the Town Planner. The Town Planner shall prescribe
the form of applications, as well as any other material that may reasonably be
required to determine compliance with this division. Minor subdivision plats
shall comply with the mapping requirements of
Article 7, Division 9, Plat Certificates,
Table 21, Required Certificates (see §
3309, Final Plat) and
Article 7, Subdivisions. The Town Planner shall not review an application
unless it is complete and complies with the requirements of the UDO. An
incomplete application shall be returned to the applicant, with a notation of
its deficiencies.
   (B)   Town Planner’s action. The Town Planner shall discuss the application
with the Development Review Committee. The Town Planner shall forward a written
recommendation with the application to the Planning Board for consideration at
its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   Planning Board’s action. The Board shall determine if the plat and
application conform with all applicable regulations. The Board shall act on an
application based solely on the findings as to compliance with applicable
regulations. The Board shall approve, approve subject to conditions, deny or
refer to the major subdivision approval process if he or she finds it to be a
major subdivision proposal or if requested by the applicant. If the Board
refers the request to a major subdivision review, an amended application shall
be submitted as required in §
3310, Major Subdivision. The Board may impose reasonable conditions on its
approval to ensure the subdivision complies with the intent and requirements of
the UDO.
   (D)   Actions subsequent to decision. The Town Planner shall notify the
applicant of the decision on the applicant’s application for a minor
subdivision approval and shall file a copy of the decision in the office of the
Town Planner. The Planning Board Chair shall endorse his or her approval on a
minimum of two reproducible Mylar originals of the final plat if it is approved
or approved with conditions. The applicant shall record such plats with the
County Register of Deeds, returning one to the Town Planner and one copy to the
County Department of Environmental Health, if any of the lots are served by a
well and/or septic tank. Approval of any minor subdivision plat is void if it
is not properly recorded within 60 days after the Board’s approval. The Town
Planner may extend this deadline, provided the applicant has demonstrated a
good faith effort to comply with the deadline, but for reasons beyond his or
her control, fails to meet the requirements of the Register of Deeds for
recordation within that period. Plats shall conform to the drawing
specifications and certification requirements of
Article 7, Subdivisions.
   (E)   Appeal of decision. Subdivisions not approved by the Planning Board
are automatically referred to the Board of Commissioners for reconsideration.
§ 3312 MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. See
Article 4, Division 5, Part 2, Mixed Unit Developments.
   (B)   Preliminary conference. A pre-application conference is required. See
§
320, Pre-Application Conference.
   (C)   Neighborhood meeting. Required if the proposed development increases
density or intensity compared to existing development on a property. See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting. Application submittal requirements. Applications for
a mixed unit development (MUD) rezoning shall follow the requirements of §
3316, Conditional District Rezoning. Site plans are also required for final
approval per §
3317, Site Plan. Subdivision approval may be required. Applications for a mixed
use development zoning may be processed simultaneously with a site plan and/or
a subdivision application(s).
      (1)   Each application for a MUD shall include a written narrative
explaining why approval of the MUD is in the community’s best interest, why it
cannot be developed through the conventional zoning process and how the
proposed project complies with the purpose and intent. The narrative shall also
provide justification for any modification from minimum standard or
requirement.
      (2)   The town may retain one or more professionals to review the
application. For that reason, the time to review the application may be
extended.
      (3)   The Town Planner may convene the Development Review Committee to
attend the pre-application conference.
   (D)   Land use composition and design standards.
      (1)   Mixed use developments shall contain a least two distinct land uses
as listed in §
527, Principal Uses, in the “PUD” column, and if not in a single building, at
least one of the uses shall be nonresidential.
      (2)   Submitted applications shall follow the mandatory design standards
and guidelines found in
Article 6, Division 12, Mixed Use Development Standards, and §§
459.15, Design Standards Flexibility, and
459.18, Sign Standards. The section numbers and titles of the required design
standards are listed below.
Table 4 - Section Numbers and Titles of Required Design Standards
Table 4 - Section Numbers and Titles of Required Design Standards
6121 Blocks, Buildings and Street Networks
6122 Block Design
6123 Site Design for Multiple Building Developments
6124 Street Networks
6126 Required Public Amenities
6127 Optional Design Guidelines
6128 MUD/PUD Residential (Except for townhouse facade standards, which are
     optional)
6129 Conservation Subdivision Residential Standards
 
      (3)   The Town Planner may waive any of the mandatory design standards
that are impossible to meet. For example, a MUD of one building may not create
new blocks. In addition, every mixed use development shall choose and follow
two of the optional design standards.
      (4)   Designate at least 15% of either the land or floor area as
nonresidential uses within the first phase of the project (if the project
consists of multiple phases). Section
527, Principal Uses Table, shall be used for guidance for the determination of
nonresidential uses.
      (5)   Clustered residential single-family detached and townhome uses are
permissible. Please see the standards at §
6128, MUD/PUD Residential.
§ 3313 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose for the planned unit development
procedure is to provide a uniform means for amending the official zoning map to
establish a planned unit development (PUD) zoning district. The planned unit
development district creates opportunities for master planned unit development
that is developed under unified control in accordance with flexible standards
and procedures that are conducive to creating mixed use, pedestrian-oriented
development that makes efficient use of land while protecting natural
resources. It is the intent of these standards to allow an applicant to propose
a wide variety of allowable uses and the flexible application of some of the
development standards in
Article 6, Development Standards, including Division 12, Mixed Use Development
Standards, which are also applicable to planned unit developments, in return
for a higher quality of development with more amenities than might otherwise
result from a strict application of the standards in this ordinance.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section may be applied to any
land of one acre in area or more and under unified control.
   (C)   Planned unit development procedure.
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Applicable (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference).
      (2)   Neighborhood meeting. Required if the proposed development
increases density or intensity compared to existing development on a property.
See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting.
      (3)   Application submittal.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance).
         (b)   Planned unit development applications may not be initiated by
anyone other than the landowner(s) of the land subject to the application or a
contract purchaser with written approval to submit the application by the
landowner(s).
         (c)   The application shall include a master plan depicting the
general configuration and relationship of the principal elements of the
proposed development, including uses, general building types, density/
intensity, resource protection, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, open
space, public facilities and phasing.
         (d)   The application shall also include a terms and conditions
document that identifies how the proposed development will meet or exceed the
requirements and standards in
Article 4, Division 5, Part 1, and subsection (D) below, Planned unit
development (PUD) district review standards, how any required environmental
mitigation will take place, and outline how public facilities will be provided
to serve the planned unit development.
         (e)   To ensure unified control, the application shall also include a
copy of the title to all land that is part of the proposed PUD zoning district
classification.
         (f)   An applicant may file an application for a preliminary plat and/
or a major or minor site plan concurrently with a planned unit development
master plan and statement terms of conditions.
      (4)   Staff review and action.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
         (b)   The Town Planner shall review the application, prepare a staff
report and provide a recommendation in accordance with subsection (D) below.
      (5)   Review by Planning Board.
         (a)   Public meetings as required per §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings.
         (b)   The Planning Board, following review during a public meeting,
shall make a recommendation on an application in accordance with subsection (D)
below, planned unit development review standards.
         (c)   In cases where a planned unit development application includes a
site plan, the Planning Board shall review both the site plan portion and the
application and make a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners, who shall
decide the major site plan portion with the other application materials.
      (6)   Public notice. Applicable. (See §
324, Public Notices).
      (7)   Review and decision by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   Applicable. (See §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings).
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a
legislative public hearing, shall decide the application in accordance with
subsection (D) below, Planned unit development review standards.
         (c)   The decision shall be one of the following:
            1.   Approval of the planned unit development subject to the PUD
master plan and PUD terms and conditions statement in the application;
            2.   Approval of the planned unit development subject to additional
or revised conditions related to the planned unit development master plan or
planned unit development terms and conditions statement;
            3.   Denial of the planned unit development; or
            4.   Remand of the planned unit development application back to the
Planning Board for further consideration.
         (d)   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written statement including each of the following:
            1.   Whether the planned unit development application (and
associated zoning map amendment) is approved, denied or remanded;
            2.   The degree to which the planned unit development application
(and associated zoning map amendment) is or is not consistent with the town’s
adopted plans and policies;
            3.   The ways in which the planned unit development application
(and associated zoning map amendment) is or is not consistent with the town’s
adopted plans and policies;
            4.   Whether approval of the planned unit development application
also amends or does not amend the town’s adopted comprehensive land use plan;
            5.   If the adopted land use plan is amended as part of the
application approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the
development needs of the town that were taken into account as part of the
approval;
            6.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is reasonable; and
            7.   An explanation of why the action taken by the Board of
Commissioners is in the public interest.
   (D)   Planned unit development review standards.
      (1)   The advisability of amending the zoning map to establish a planned
unit development district is a matter committed to the legislative discretion
of the Board of Commissioners and is not controlled by any one factor. In
determining whether to adopt or deny a planned unit development, the Board of
Commissioners may consider the standards in §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, and the standards for the proposed type of PUD
District in
Article 4, Division 4, Part 1, Planned Unit Developments, and
Article 6, Design Standards.
      (2)   In the event an applicant files an application for a preliminary
plat concurrently with a planned development application, the Board of
Commissioners shall review and decide the preliminary plat portion of the
application in accordance with the standards in §
3310, Major Subdivisions.
      (3)   In the event an applicant files an application for a major or minor
site plan concurrently with the planned unit development application, the Board
of Commissioners shall review and decide the major or minor site plan portion
of the application in accordance with the standards in §
3317, Site Plan.
   (E)   Designation on the official zoning map. Designation of a PUD zoning
district on the official zoning map shall note the ordinance number approving
the PUD zoning classification.
   (F)   Effect.
      (1)   Lands rezoned to a Planned Unit Development (PUD) District shall be
subject to the approved PUD master plan and the approved PUD terms and
conditions.
      (2)   The master plan and terms and conditions are binding on the land as
an amendment to the official zoning map.
      (3)   The applicant may apply for and obtain subsequent development
permits and approvals necessary to implement the PUD master plan in accordance
with the appropriate procedures and standards set forth in this UDO.
   (G)   Amendment. Applicable (see §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment).
   (H)   Expiration.
      (1)   If no application for approval of a preliminary plat or site plan
for any part of the approved PUD master plan is submitted within two years
after approval of the planned unit development, the Town Planner may initiate a
zoning map amendment application to rezone the land back to its prior zoning
classification or any other general zoning classification determined to be
appropriate. Such time period may be extended with transfer of ownership.
      (2)   Upon written request submitted at least 30 days before expiration
of the two-year period provided in subsection (H)(1) above, and upon a showing
of good cause, the Town Planner may grant one extension not to exceed one year
for the applicant to submit required development applications.
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   Appeal of a decision on a planned unit development shall be subject
to review by the county superior court.
      (2)   Petitions for review must be filed with the clerk of court within
30 days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the Town Clerk and
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail or first-class mail to the
applicant, landowner and to any person who has submitted a written request for
a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective. (See §
327, Written Notice of Decision.)
§ 3314 REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   (A)   Introduction. The Board of Commissioners is authorized to grant
reasonable accommodations under the federal Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 3601 et seq., for the circumstances set forth in this section, except that
the Board of Adjustment may provide a reasonable accommodation through a
variance as provided in §
3320, Text Amendment. Where the request for a reasonable accommodation includes
both a request that may be granted by a variance, and a request that does not
come under the definition of variance, then the entire request shall be heard
by the Board of Commissioners. For example, variances may not be used to obtain
a change of use.
   (B)   Persons authorized to file applications. An application for a
reasonable accommodation may be filed only: by the owner of the land affected
by the reasonable accommodation; an agent, lessee or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner to file such application; or any unit of
government that is not the owner of the lot but proposes to acquire the lot by
purchase, gift or condemnation.
   (C)   Pre-application conference. Before filing an application for a
reasonable accommodation, the applicant may request a pre-application
conference with the Town Planner under §
320, Pre-Application Conference.
   (D)   Application filing and contents. An application for a reasonable
accommodation shall be filed with the Town Planner and contain: (i) the
applicant’s contact information (name, mailing address, phone number, fax
number and email address); (ii) the contact information for the owner(s) of the
property (if different from the applicant); (iii) the address of the property
at which the reasonable accommodation is requested; (iv) a description of the
reasonable accommodation requested; (v) a statement explaining how and why the
request meets the “approval criteria” for a reasonable accommodation (see
subsection (F) below, Approval criteria); and (vi) notarized signature of the
applicant and property owner(s) (if different from the applicant). No filing
fee shall be required for the application.
   (E)   Action by the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners (or
the Board of Adjustment if accommodation is a request for a variance) shall
hold a quasi-judicial hearing on the proposed reasonable accommodation. The
Board shall decide the request upon a majority vote of the members. The quasi-
judicial hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the hearing procedures
of §
325(C), Public Meetings and Hearings.
   (F)   Approval criteria. The Board of Commissioners shall grant a reasonable
accommodation to any provision of the zoning ordinance if the Board of
Commissioners finds by the greater weight of the evidence that the proposed
reasonable accommodation is both reasonable and necessary, in accordance with
the following criteria.
      (1)   Reasonable. An accommodation will be determined to be reasonable if
it would not undermine the legitimate purposes and effects of existing zoning
regulations, and if it will not impose significant financial and administrative
burdens upon the town and/or constitute a substantial or fundamental alteration
of the town’s zoning ordinance provisions.
      (2)   Necessary. An accommodation will be determined to be necessary if
it would provide direct or meaningful therapeutic amelioration of the effects
of the particular disability, handicap or institutionalized persons and would
afford handicapped or disabled persons’ equal opportunity to enjoy and use
housing in residential districts in the town.
   (G)   Appeals. Appeals are made to the United StatesDistrict Court for the
Middle District of North Carolina.
§ 3315 REZONING/MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Introduction. There are two types of map amendments: general and
conditional. General rezonings are conventional or traditional map amendments
where a property is moved from one zoning classification to another.
Conditional map amendments create an individualized zoning district.
Conditional districts are described in §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments.
   (B)   Who may propose an amendment. This UDO, including the zoning map, may
be amended only by the Board of Commissioners, according to the procedures of
this section and in §
3320, Text Amendment. Proposed amendments may be initiated by the property
owners or their agents, the Board of Commissioners or the Planning Board.
   (C)   Down-zoning. No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that
down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
Board of Commissioners. For the purpose of this section, DOWN-ZONING means a
zoning ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense
than was allowed under its previous usage; or
      (2)   By reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed
under its previous usage.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   A pre-application conference is mandatory per §
321, Neighborhood Meeting, and required if the proposed rezoning increases
density or the intensity of the property compared to existing development on a
property. See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting. Except for amendments initiated by the Board of
Commissioners, Planning Board or staff, no proposed amendment to the zoning map
shall be considered by the Board of Commissioners, nor a public hearing held
until an application containing the following information is submitted by the
applicant:
         (a)   A report on the neighborhood meeting.
         (b)   A statement of the present zoning classification.
         (c)   The name and signature of the applicant and owner if the owner
is not the applicant.
         (d)   The tax parcel number of the lot proposed to be rezoned.
         (e)   The names and addresses of the owners of the lot in question.
         (f)   The names of the owners and use of each abutting property.
Abutting properties include those separated from the parcel to be rezoned by a
street, railroad or other transportation corridor.
         (g)   A completed application form with fee paid.
         (h)   The applicant shall provide any additional information related
to the proposed amendment requested in writing by the Town Planner, Planning
Board or Board of Commissioners. The Town Planner shall transmit the original
application to the Board of Commissioners, and the original application shall
be filed in the office of the Town Planner after consideration by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   Planning Board review. After a complete application is submitted, the
Planning Board shall issue a written recommendation with statements of
consistency and reasonableness to the Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Statements of consistency and reasonableness. In accordance with
G.S. §§ 160D-604 and 160D-605, the Planning Board shall advise and comment on
whether the proposed amendment is consistent with any comprehensive plan that
has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan, as applicable. The
Planning Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners that addresses plan consistency and other matters deemed
appropriate by the Planning Board, but a comment by the Planning Board that a
proposed amendment is inconsistent with a comprehensive plan or any other
officially adopted plan, as applicable, shall not preclude consideration or
approval by the Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board shall also provide a
statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning. This statement
of reasonableness may consider, among other factors: (i) the size, physical
conditions and other attributes of the area proposed to be rezoned; (ii) the
benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors and the surrounding
community; (iii) the relationship between the current actual and permissible
development on the tract and adjoining areas and the development that would be
permissible under the proposed amendment; (iv) why the action taken is in the
public interest; and (v) any changed conditions warranting the amendment.
   (F)   Public hearing procedures.
      (1)   Notifications. Notice is required. Notice will be made as provided
in §
324, Public Notices.
      (2)   No amendment shall be adopted by the Board of Commissioners until
it has held a public hearing on the amendment. The public hearing may be held
after the Board of Commissioners receives a recommendation from the Planning
Board, or if no recommendation is forthcoming, the public hearing may be held
after the Planning Board has not made a recommendation in 65 days from the date
of the Planning Board’s first meeting on the application or any Board of
Commissioner’s extension, if provided, has elapsed.
      (3)   Board of Commissioners statement. After the public hearing, and
prior to adopting or rejecting any zoning amendment, the Board of Commissioners
shall adopt a written statement(s) describing whether its action is consistent
with an adopted comprehensive plan and is reasonable and in the public
interest. The Board of Commissioners statements shall follow the requirements
in subsection (E)(1) above.
   (G)   Limitation on down-zoning. No amendment to zoning text or map that
down-zones property shall be initiated nor shall it be enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
town. For the purpose of this section, DOWN-ZONING means a zoning ordinance
that affects an area of land in one of the following ways: by decreasing the
development density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under its
previous usage; and by reducing the permitted uses of the land that are
specified in a zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses
than were allowed under its previous usage. No denied zoning application can be
resubmitted within one year.
   (H)   Citizen comments. If any resident or property owner in the town
submits a written statement regarding a proposed zoning map or text amendment
to the Town Clerk at least two business days prior to the proposed vote on such
change, the Town Clerk shall deliver the written statement(s) to the Board of
Commissioners with the meeting agenda or, if received later, to the Board of
Commissioners before the meeting.
§ 3316 CONDITIONAL DISTRICT MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Who may initiate. All the owners of a property, or the owner’s agent
or persons holding a contract to purchase the property must sign the petition
for conditional district rezoning.
   (B)   Process. The procedure is the same as general rezonings except for the
following.
      (1)   Conditional district rezoning petitions are a separate process from
general rezonings. Conditional district rezonings must begin with a unique
petition. Once an application is accepted, it is not possible to switch from a
general to a conditional rezoning and vice versa.
      (2)   The applicant owners shall propose conditions on the rezoning in
the application that are more restrictive than those in the base zoning
district. All proposed conditions must be in writing signed by the applicant/
owner. A site plan is required.
      (3)   The town may propose conditions, but only those agreed to by the
applicant and Board of Commissioners may be approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   A sketch plan showing the number of lots that could be developed
under conventional zoning shall be provided as a part of the application.
Except for conservation subdivisions, the residential densities shall not
exceed those shown on the sketch plan.
      (2)   Sketch plans should show: the lots at the dimensions required in §
412, Generally Applicable Dimensional Standards; streets; areas that cannot be
developed such as wetlands and their buffers; and required open space.
   (D)   Limitation on conditions.
      (1)   Unless consented to by the applicant in writing, in the exercise of
the authority granted by this section, the Board of Commissioners may not
require, enforce or incorporate into the zoning regulations any condition or
requirement not authorized by otherwise applicable law, including, without
limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of
G.S. § 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in
G.S. §§ 136-18(29) and 160A-307 or other unauthorized limitations on the
development or use of land.
      (2)   Conditions and site-specific standards imposed in a conditional
district shall be limited to those that address the conformance of the
development and use of the site to local government ordinances, plans adopted
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-501 or the impacts reasonably expected to be generated
by the development or use of the site.
   (E)   Amendments. Except for administrative modifications permitted under §
3300, Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate, any changes to
conditions shall follow the same process for approval as a new application for
a map amendment.
§ 3317 SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Pre-application conference required. See §
320, Pre-Application Conference.
   (B)   Neighborhood meeting. Required if the proposed development increases
density or intensity compared to existing development on a property. See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting.
   (C)   Site plan application submittal requirements.
      (1)   Site plans applications are required for all developments except
detached single-family. Site plan applications may be submitted in conjunction
with other permit applications, or alone. For example, if a commercial
subdivision has already received zoning and subdivision approval, then a site
plan application may be submitted by itself. In other cases, site plan
applications are a requirement for a permit application. For example, site plan
applications are required with special use permit applications. A pre-
application conference is required (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference). The Town Planner should be consulted for
details on the procedural requirements.
      (2)   Applications for a site plan permit shall be submitted to the Town
Planner. The Planner shall prescribe the form on which applications are made.
Applications shall include the information listed in
Article 11, Division 1, Information Required with Sketch Plans, Site Plans and
Subdivisions. The Town Planner shall prescribe any other material that may
reasonably be required to determine compliance with this article. Two copies of
the application and attachments shall be submitted to the Town Planner. No
application shall be accepted by the Town Planner unless it is compliant with
Article 11, Division 1.
   (D)   Action on the application. On receipt of a completed application for a
site plan, the Town Planner shall review as required in §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action. Site plans will
be forwarded to the Planning Board for a written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may impose such reasonable conditions
as detailed in §
326, Conditions of Approval.
   (E)   Actions subsequent to decision. In the case of denial, approval or
approval with conditions of a site plan application, the Town Planner shall
notify the applicant as required in §
327, Written Notice of Decision. If approved, the Town Planner may issue the
zoning compliance certificate if no other permits or approvals are required.
Where a building permit or sign permit is required, such permit shall not be
issued prior to the issuance of the site plan permit and shall comply with the
approved site plan, including all conditions of approval thereto (see §
328, Effect of Development Approval).
   (F)   Appeal of decision. A decision by the Board of Commissioners in
granting or denying a site plan may be appealed to the county superior court
within 30 days of the decision.
   (G)   Modification of site plan permits. The Town Planner may approve a
modification of a site plan (including site plans approved as a part of another
permit application, such as a special use permit) per §
3300, Administrative Modifications. Except for minor modifications per §
3300, an application for modification of a site shall be reviewed in accordance
with the procedures established in this article for a new site plan.
   (H)   Expiration and revocation of site plan approvals.
      (1)   Starting time limit. If the use, construction or activity
authorized by approval of an application for a site plan permit or modification
of a site plan permit is not started within 24 months of the date of approval,
the permit shall expire and any town permit issued pursuant to the approval may
be voidable. The Board of Commissioners may grant an extension of the starting
time limit for up to 12 months. The Town Planner shall determine whether the
use, construction or activity has started.
      (2)   Revocation of site plan permit. If any conditions of a site plan
permit or modification of a site plan permit, or requirements of this article
applicable to the permit or modification, are violated, the Board of
Commissioners may revoke the permit or modification. The Board of Commissioners
may reinstate a revoked site permit or modification of a zoning compliance
certificate if it determines that:
         (a)   The holder of the revoked permit or modification submitted a
request for reinstatement within 90 days of the revocation;
         (b)   The violations that were the cause of the revocation have been
corrected; and
         (c)   The development fully complies with all conditions of the permit
or modification and all applicable requirements of this article.
§ 3318 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Permitted special uses provide for a more detailed review of
applications for certain uses. Subject to
Article 6, Development Standards, certain uses of property are allowed in
specified districts where those uses would not otherwise be acceptable. Special
uses, in some circumstances, may be compatible with and desirable in the
districts in which they are designated, but they may also have characteristics
which could have detrimental effects on adjacent properties, or even the entire
town area, if not properly designed and controlled. By means of controls
exercised through the special use permit procedures, uses of property which
would otherwise be undesirable in certain districts can be developed to
minimize any bad effects they might have on surrounding properties. The land
uses requiring a special use permit are listed in §
527, Principal Uses Table.
   (B)   Special uses require a permit from the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Special use permits shall only be granted after the Board of
Commissioners has held a quasi-judicial public hearing using the procedure set
forth in §
325(C), Public Meetings and Hearings.
      (1)   Pre-application conferences with the Town Planner per §
320, Pre-Application Conference, are required.
      (2)   Neighborhood meeting is required. See §
321, Neighborhood Meeting. The minutes and affidavits required shall not be the
basis for a decision on the application by the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Applications for special use permits and a fee in accordance with
the fee schedule adopted by the Board of Commissioners shall be received by the
Town Planner per §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance.
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners shall call for a public hearing. Public
notice of the hearing shall be made in accordance with §
324, Public Notices.
      (5)   Public hearings by the Board of Commissioners for special use
permits shall be conducted following the requirements of §
325(C), Public Meetings and Hearings (Quasi-judicial public hearings), and the
following.
         (a)   The Mayor shall summarize the evidence that has been presented,
giving the parties opportunity to make objections or corrections. The Board of
Commissioners members, parties or other persons with standing (see §
325(C)(6), Public Meetings and Hearings) shall be the only persons allowed to
ask questions of a witness.
         (b)   At a special meeting called for the purpose, the Board of
Commissioners may view the premises.
         (c)   The Board of Commissioners may continue the hearing until a
certain date and time.
         (d)   In order to issue a special use permit, the Board of
Commissioners shall consider each of the following conditions, and based on the
evidence presented at the hearing, make findings in regard to each and must
find that the issuance of the special use permit promotes the public health,
safety and welfare and is in the best interest of the town:
            1.   Will not materially endanger the public health, safety if
located where proposed;
            2.   Complies with all standards, conditions and specifications of
the UDO, including Articles 4, Zoning Districts, and 6, Development Standards;
            3.   Will not substantially injure the value of the abutting land,
or the special use is a public necessity;
            4.   Will be in harmony with the area in which it is to be located;
            5.   Is in general conformity with the town’s adopted comprehensive
and other plans; and
            6.   Will not exceed the town’s ability to provide adequate public
facilities (fire and rescue, utilities and so on).
         (e)   1.   If the Board of Commissioners approves a special use
permit, it may, as part of the terms of such approval, impose any additional
reasonable conditions and safeguards as may be necessary to ensure that the
criteria for the granting of such a permit will be followed per §
326, Conditions of Approval. Where appropriate, such conditions may include
requirements that streets and/or utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the
public, and that provisions be made for recreational space and facilities.
            2.   The Board of Commissioners may not impose conditions for which
the town does not have statutory authority, including taxes, impact fees,
building design elements for one- or two-family dwellings and driveway
improvements in excess of those allowed by G.S. § 160D-702(b).
         (f)   The Board of Commissioner’s final decisions shall be shown in
the order of the case as entered in the Council’s minutes and signed by the
Clerk and the Mayor on approval of the minutes by the Board. Such order shall
show the reasons for the determinations, with a summary of the evidence
introduced and the findings of fact made by the Council. When a special use
permit is granted, the order shall state the facts that support findings
required to be made before such permit is issued. The order shall state in
detail what, if any, conditions and safeguards the Council imposes in
connection with granting of a special use permit. The record shall be final
when it is filed in the Town Clerk’s office.
         (g)   The order of the decision in each case shall be prepared, filed
in the Clerk’s office and furnished to any person as stipulated in §
327, Written Notice of Decision.
         (h)   A copy of the record shall be filed in the office of the County
Register of Deeds.
   (D)   Effect.
      (1)   Applicable (see §
328, Effect of Development Approval).
      (2)   A special use and the associated site plan approval are perpetually
binding and run with the land, unless amended.
      (3)   An action invalidating a special use condition of approval (such as
exceeding maximum allowable intensity or hours of operation limitation) shall
render the special use permit as well as any site plan approval null and void.
   (E)   Amendment. Applicable; except for administrative modifications (see §
3300), a modification requires a new application and approval by the Board of
Commissioners following a quasi-judicial hearing.
   (F)   State and federal requirements. Special uses shall meet all applicable
state and federal requirements for location and operation. Failure to maintain
compliance with those requirements may result in the revocation of the special
use permit.
   (G)   Expiration.
      (1)   Replacement. If a special use is replaced by a use otherwise
permitted by right in the zoning district, the special use permit approval is
deemed abandoned and the special use permit approval is null and void, but the
site plan approval is unaffected, provided there are no physical changes to the
building or the site.
      (2)   Failure to complete construction. Unless otherwise stated in the
special use permit approval, a special use permit shall become voidable two
years after the date of issuance if:
         (a)   The authorized use has not commenced;
         (b)   No substantial construction activity has taken place; or
         (c)   Construction activities have started but the value of all
construction activity after two years is less than 5% of the estimated total
cost of construction.
      (3)   Special use permits may be revoked by the Board of Commissioners
following a quasi-judicial hearing in the same manner that they were granted.
See §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings.
      (4)   Extension.
         (a)   An applicant may request an extension of a special use permit
approval in writing to the Town Planner at least 30 days prior to expiration.
         (b)   Extension requests shall be reviewed and decided by the Board of
Commissioners.
         (c)   Up to one extension for a maximum period of one year may be
granted if:
            1.   The applicant has proceeded towards completion of construction
in good faith and with due diligence; and
            2.   Conditions have not changed to the extent that a new
application is warranted in the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners.
   (H)   Appeal.
      (1)   Appeal of a decision on a special use permit shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari and in
accordance with G.S. § 1600-1402.
      (2)   Petitions for review must be filed with the clerk of court within
30 days of the date the decision is filed in the office of the appropriate
review authority and delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail or first-
class mail to the applicant, landowner and to any person who has submitted a
written request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
   (I)   The special use permit may be reviewed by the town on a periodical
basis.
   (J)   No denied special use permit can be resubmitted for the same type of
request unless conditions have so changed that a new application is warranted.
§ 3319 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to establish a
uniform mechanism for reviewing temporary uses, structures, special events and
temporary signage to ensure they comply with the standards in
Article 5, Division 5, Temporary Uses.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
proposed temporary uses, temporary structures, special events and temporary
signage set forth in
Article 5, Division 5, Temporary Uses.
   (C)   Temporary use permit procedure.
      (1)   Application submittal. Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance).
      (2)   Staff review and action.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
         (b)   The Town Planner shall review and decide the application in
accordance with subsection (D) below, Temporary use permit review standards.
   (D)   Temporary use permit review standards.
      (1)   A temporary use permit shall be approved if it complies with:
         (a)   The standards in
Article 5, Division 5, Temporary Uses;
         (b)   Any applicable standards in
Article 6, including Division 8, Signage;
         (c)   The State Building Code;
         (d)   The applicable requirements of the County Health Department,
including all improvement permit requirements (if any);
         (e)   All standards or conditions of any prior, applicable permits and
development approvals; and
         (f)   All other applicable requirements of this ordinance, the town’s
code of ordinances, state law and federal law.
   (E)   Effect. Applicable (see §
328, Effect of Development Approval).
   (F)   Amendment. Applicable (see §
3300, Administrative Modifications. If the amendment is outside the parameters
of §
3300, a new application for a temporary use permit is required).
   (G)   Expiration. Approval of a temporary use permit shall be effective
beginning on the date of approval and shall remain effective for the period
indicated in the permit.
   (H)   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a temporary use permit shall be
reviewed and decided by the Board of Adjustment in the nature of certiorari and
in accordance with §
3301, Appeals.
§ 3320 TEXT AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section provides a uniform means for amending
the text of this ordinance whenever the public necessity, changed conditions,
convenience, general welfare or appropriate land use practices justify or
require doing so.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   The standards and requirements of this section shall apply to
applications to revise the text of this ordinance.
      (2)   The requirements in this section shall not apply to amendments of
the comprehensive plan or other functional plans and documents (see §
3304, Comprehensive Plan).
   (C)   Text amendment procedure.
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Required (see §
320, Pre-Application Conference).
      (2)   Application submittal.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance).
         (b)   An application for a text amendment to this ordinance may be
filed by anyone. However, §
3315(C), Rezoning/Map Amendment, Down-zoning, applies to text amendments.
      (3)   Staff review and action.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action).
         (b)   The Town Planner shall prepare a staff report and provide a
recommendation in accordance with subsection (E) below, Text amendment review
standards.
      (4)   Review by Planning Board.
         (a)   Applicable (see §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings).
         (b)   The Planning Board, following review during a public meeting,
shall make a recommendation on an application in accordance with subsection (E)
below, Text amendment review standards.
         (c)   The Planning Board shall comment on whether or not the text
amendment is consistent with the town’
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment.
      (5)   Public notice. Required (see §
324, Public Notices).
   (D)   Review and decision by Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Applicable (see §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings).
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners, after the conclusion of a legislative
public hearing, shall decide the application in accordance with subsection (E)
below, Text amendment review standards.
      (3)   The decision shall be one of the following:
         (a)   Adoption of the text amendment as proposed;
         (b)   Adoption of a revised text amendment;
         (c)   Denial of the text amendment; or
         (d)   Remand of the text amendment application to the Planning Board
for further consideration.
      (4)   In making its decision, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt a
written statement including each of the following:
         (a)   Whether the text amendment application is approved, denied or
remanded;
         (b)   The degree to which the text amendment application is or is not
consistent with the town’s adopted plans;
         (c)   Whether approval of the text amendment application also amends
or does not amend the town’s plans; and
         (d)   If the adopted plans are amended as part of the application
approval, a description of the change in conditions to meet the development
needs of the town that were taken into account as part of the approval; and an
explanation of why the action taken by the Board of Commissioners is in the
public interest per §
3315(E)(1), Rezoning/Map Amendment (Statements of consistency and
reasonableness).
   (E)   Text amendment review standards. The advisability of amending the text
of this ordinance is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the
Board of Commissioners and is not controlled by any one factor. In determining
whether to adopt or deny the proposed UDO text amendment, the Board of
Commissioners may, but is not required to consider whether and the extent to
which the proposed text amendment:
      (1)   Is consistent with the town’s adopted plans;
      (2)   Is not in conflict with any provision of this ordinance or the
town’s code of ordinances;
      (3)   Is required by changed conditions;
      (4)   Addresses a demonstrated community need;
      (5)   Addresses an unforeseen matter or use of land not present when the
ordinance was adopted;
      (6)   Is consistent with the purpose and intent of the zoning districts
in this ordinance, or would improve compatibility among uses and ensure
efficient development within the town;
      (7)   Would result in a logical and orderly development pattern;
      (8)   Addresses other factors determined to be relevant by the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (9)   Would not result in significantly adverse impacts on the natural
environment, including, but not limited to, water, air, noise, stormwater
management, wildlife, vegetation and the natural functioning of the
environment.
   (F)   Effect. Applicable (see §
328, Effect of Development Approval).
   (G)   Amendment. Amendment of a text amendment approval may only be reviewed
and considered in accordance with the procedures and standards established for
its original approval.
   (H)   Appeal. Appeal of a decision on a UDO text amendment shall be subject
to review by the county superior court. Petitions for review must be filed with
the clerk of court within 30 days of the date the decision is filed in the
office of the appropriate review authority and delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail or first-class mail to the applicant, landowner and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy, prior to the date the
decision becomes effective.
§ 3321 VARIANCE.
   (A)   A complete application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board
of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Town Planner per §
322, Application Filing and Acceptance.
   (B)   The Town Planner shall advertise the hearing in accordance with the
requirements of §
324, Public Notices.
   (C)   When presented to the Board of Adjustment at the hearing, the
application for a variance shall be accompanied by a report as required by §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action.
   (D)   Following advertisement per §
324, Public Notices, the Board shall hold a hearing following the requirements
of §
325, Public Meetings and Hearings.
   (E)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
   (F)   A variance may be granted by the Board of Adjustment if it concludes
that strict enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary hardships
for the applicant upon a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the federal Fair Housing Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., for a person(s) with a disability (see § 
3314, Reasonable Accommodation);
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.png]
 
Figure 2
   (G)   If a motion to grant a variance is not made or fails to receive the
four-fifths vote necessary for adoption, then a motion to deny the variance
shall be in order. If the Board finds that any one or more of the four criteria
set forth in subsection (F) above are not satisfied, the variance cannot be
granted. A motion to deny may be adopted as the Board’s decision if supported
by more than one-fifth of the Board’s membership.
   (H)   Before granting a variance, the Board must take a separate vote and
vote affirmatively (by a four-fifths majority) on each of the four required
findings stated in subsection (F) above. Insofar as practicable, a motion to
make an affirmative finding on each of the requirements set forth in subsection
(F) above shall include a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact
supporting such motion.
   (I)    In granting variances, the Board of Adjustment may impose such
reasonable conditions as will ensure that the use of the property to which the
variance applies will be as compatible as practicable with the surrounding
properties.
   (J)    A variance shall run with the land. The variance shall be recorded at
the County Register of Deeds’s office.
   (K)    The nature of the variance and any conditions attached to it shall be
entered on the face of the certificate of zoning compliance, or the certificate
of zoning compliance may simply note the issuance of the variance and refer to
the written record of the variance for further information. All such conditions
are enforceable in the same manner as any other applicable requirement of this
division. No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
§ 3322 VESTED RIGHTS CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Introduction. This section is intended to implement the provisions of
G.S. § 160D-108.1 pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is
established upon the approval of a site-specific vesting development plan. For
the purpose of this section, a SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLAN is defined as a plan
of land development submitted to the town for purposes of obtaining a special
use permit or zoning permit. A variance or special use permit with a site plan
that fails to describe with reasonable certainty the type and intensity of use
for a specific parcel or parcels of property shall not constitute a valid
application for a site-specific vesting plan. For the purpose of this section,
a ZONING VESTED RIGHT is defined as a right pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.1 to
undertake and complete the development and use of property under the terms and
conditions of an approved site-specific development plan
   (B)   Establishment of a statutory vested right.
      (1)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the Board of Commissioners, of a site-
specific vesting plan.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may approve a site-specific vesting plan
upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above and this subsection (B),
approval of a site-specific vesting plan with a condition that a variance is
obtained shall not confer a zoning vested right unless the necessary variance
has been obtained.
      (4)   A site-specific vesting plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the Board of Commissioner’s approval authority’s action or
ordinance relating thereto.
      (5)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of any overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does
not affect the allowable type or density of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulation by the town, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes. Otherwise, applicable new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site-specific vesting plan upon the expiration or termination of the vested
right in accordance with this section.
      (6)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right but shall attach to
and run with the applicable property. After approval of a site-specific vesting
plan, all successors to the landowner that established the zoning vested right
shall be entitled to exercise such right while applicable.
   (C)   Approval procedures and approval authority.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided for in this section, an application
for specific vesting plan approval shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established by ordinance and shall be considered by the designated
approval authority for the specific type of zoning or zoning compliance
certificate or approval for which application is made.
      (2)   (a)   In order to obtain a zoning vested right, the applicant must
request in writing at the time of application that the application be
considered and acted on by the Board of Commissioners following notice and a
public hearing as provided in §§
324, Public Notices, and
325, Public Meetings and Hearings.
         (b)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon
approval of a site-specific vesting plan, the applicant must indicate at the
time of application, on a form to be provided by the town, that a zoning vested
right is being sought.
      (3)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site-
specific vesting plan shall contain the following notation: “Approval of this
plan established a zoning vested right under G.S. § 160D-108.1 unless
terminated at an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until two
years from date of issuance.”
      (4)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site-specific
vesting plan, nothing in this section shall exempt such a plan from subsequent
reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the
original approval, provided that such reviews and approvals are not
inconsistent with the original approval.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval or the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Duration.
      (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this section
shall remain vested for a period of two years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided by the Board of Commissioners as provided in this
subsection (D). This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the
Board of Commissioners at the time the amendment or modification is approved.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and (B)
above, the Board of Commissioners may provide that rights shall be vested for a
period exceeding two years, but not exceeding five years, where warranted in
light of all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of
the development, the level of investment, the need for or desirability of the
development, economic cycles and market conditions.
         (b)   These determinations shall be in the sound discretion of the
Board of Commissioners at the time the site-specific vesting plan is approved.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. §§ 160D-1111 and 160D-1115 apply, except that a building permit shall not
expire or be revoked because of the running time while a zoning vested right
under this section is outstanding.
   (E)   Termination. A zoning right that has been vested as provided in §
3321, Variance, shall terminate:
      (1)   At the end of the application vesting period with respect to
buildings and uses for which no valid building permit application has been
filed;
      (2)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
      (3)   Upon finding by the Board of Commissioners, by ordinance after
notice and a public hearing, that natural or human-made hazards on or in the
immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat
to the public health, safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as
contemplated in the approved site-specific development plan;
      (4)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all
costs, expenses and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not
limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
engineering, planning, marketing, legal and other consultant’s fees incurred
after approval by the town, together with interest thereon at the legal rate
until paid. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the
property which is caused by such action;
      (5)   Upon findings by the Board of Commissioners, by ordinance after
notice and a public hearing, that the landowner or his or her representative
intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the approval
authority of the site-specific development plan; or
      (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and public hearing.
   (F)   Limitations. Nothing in this article is intended or shall be deemed to
create any zoning vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. §
160D-108.1.
§ 3323 ZONING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Certificate of zoning compliance. Except as otherwise specifically
provided in this ordinance, it shall be unlawful to begin any excavation,
removal of soil, clearing of site or placing any fill on lands contemplated for
development, or to begin any construction, moving, alteration or renovation,
except for ordinary repairs, of any building or other structure, including
accessory structures and signs, until the Town Planner has issued for such
action a zoning compliance certificate, certifying that such development
complies with the applicable provisions of this article.
   (B)   Zoning compliance certificate application submittal requirements/
sketch or site plan review required.
      (1)   All applications for a zoning compliance certificate shall include
either a subdivision, site plan or a sketch plan application.
      (2)   Site plans are required for applications for a variance,
subdivision plat, floodplain development permit or special use permit. See §
3317, Site Plan, and
Article 11, Division 1, Information Required with Sketch Plans, Site Plans and
Subdivisions, for further details.
      (3)   Sketch plan review and approval by the Town Planner, as
appropriate, shall be required prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance
certificate for single-family dwellings or duplexes, residential additions,
accessory structures or accessory uses on a lot. The Town Planner shall
prescribe the form on which applications are made.
      (4)   Sketch plan applications shall include a sketch plan drawn to
scale. At a minimum, the sketch plan shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner and applicant, if not the same
person;
         (b)   The approximate total acreage of the proposed development;
         (c)   The locations of buildings, lot boundaries, impervious surfaces
and square footage total, easements and building setback lines; and
         (d)   Any other information the owner or applicant believes necessary
to obtain the opinion of the Town Planner staff as to proposed development’s
compliance with the requirements of this UDO. If the principal structure is
less than ten feet from a lot boundary line, or if additional information is
needed to evaluate compliance, the Town Planner may require a survey drawn,
signed and sealed by a state licensed engineer, architect or professional
surveyor.
         (e)   If the property is located in a floodplain, the application
requirements of
Chapter 151 must be met.
      (5)   Applications which are not complete shall be returned to the
applicant in a reasonable time, not to exceed 60 days, depending on the
complexity of the application, with a notation of the deficiencies in the
application.
   (C)   Staff consultation after application submitted.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a formal application for a zoning compliance
certificate, the Town Planner shall review the application and forward the
application to the Project Review Committee for its review and comment. If the
applicant wishes, the Town Planner or the Town Planner and Project Review
Committee may confer with the applicant to ensure that he or she understands
the Town Planner’s interpretation of the applicable requirements of this
article, that the developer has submitted all of the information that he or she
intends to submit and that the application represents precisely and completely
what he or she proposes to do. If the Town Planner and/or Project Review
Committee believes that the application is incomplete, the Town Planner shall
advise the applicant in writing about what is required to complete the
application.
      (2)   If the application is for a permit that requires Planning Board,
Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioner’s approval, the Town Planner shall
place the application on the agenda of the proper board when the application is
complete or the applicant states, in writing, that the application is complete.
   (D)   Action on the application. On receipt of a completed application for a
zoning compliance certificate, the Town Planner, together with the Project
Review Committee, shall cause an analysis to be made pursuant to §
323, Staff and Development Review Committee Review and Action. The Town Planner
and Project Review Committee shall determine if any applicable conditions of an
approved special use permit, conditional district zoning approval or variance
have been met. The Town Planner may impose such reasonable conditions on an
approval as will ensure compliance with this UDO. No Zoning compliance
certificate will be issued until all necessary NCDOT (curb cut or other
applicable permits) and/or County Health Department (septic system and/or well)
requirements for the proposed work and/or town or county public utilities have
issued permits that have been given to the Town Planner. Where a building
permit, floodplain development permit or sign permit is required, such permit
shall not be issued prior to the issuance of the zoning compliance certificate
required for the development. The aforementioned permits shall comply with the
approved zoning compliance certificate, including all conditions of approval
thereto.
   (E)   Actions subsequent to decision. In the case of approval or approval
with conditions of an application for a zoning compliance certificate, the Town
Planner shall issue the zoning compliance certificate. In case of denial on an
application, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the reasons for
such denial. No building or structure for which a zoning compliance certificate
has been issued shall be used or occupied until, after final zoning compliance
inspection, a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the county indicating
compliance with the provisions of this article and all other state and local
laws, including the conditions of the zoning compliance certificate and all
other required permits.
   (F)   Appeal of decision. A decision by the Town Planner in granting or
denying a zoning compliance certificate may be appealed within 30 days to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with the provisions of §
3301, Appeals.
   (G)   Modification of zoning compliance certificates. The Town Planner, with
the advice of the Project Review Committee may approve a modification of zoning
compliance certificate provided such changes continue to comply with the
approving action (if any) and all other applicable requirements. An application
for modification of a zoning compliance certificate shall be reviewed in
accordance with the procedures established in this article.
   (H)   Expiration and revocation of zoning compliance certificates.
      (1)   Starting time limit. If the use, construction or activity
authorized by approval of an application for a zoning compliance certificate or
modification of a zoning compliance certificate is not started within 24 months
of the date of approval, the permit shall expire and any town permit issued
pursuant to the approval shall be void (except for permits issued as a result
of quasi-judicial process). The Town Planner, with the advice of the Project
Review Committee, may grant an extension of the starting time limit for up to
12 months. The Town Planner shall determine whether the use, construction or
activity has started.
      (2)   Revocation of zoning compliance certificate.
         (a)   If any conditions of a zoning compliance certificate or
modification of a zoning compliance certificate, or requirements of this
article applicable to the permit or modification, are violated, the Town
Planner, with the advice of the Project Review Committee, may revoke the permit
or modification.
         (b)   The Town Planner, with the advice of the Project Review
Committee, may reinstate a revoked zoning compliance certificate or
modification of a zoning compliance certificate if he or she determines that:
            1.   The holder of the revoked permit or modification submitted a
request for reinstatement within 90 days of the revocation;
            2.   The violations that were the cause of the revocation have been
corrected; and
            3.   The development fully complies with all conditions of the
permit or modification and all applicable requirements of this article.
§ 3324 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   See
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention, of the town’s code of ordinances.
ARTICLE 4. ZONING DISTRICTS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY.
§ 410 DISTRICTS DISTINGUISHED.
   All land within the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be in one or more of
the following types of zoning districts.
   (A)   All land subject to these standards shall be classified into one of
the conventional or floating zoning districts identified in the Zoning
Districts Established Table.
   (B)   Land in any conventional or planned unit development zoning district
may also be classified into one or more overlay zoning districts.
   (C)   In cases where land is within an overlay zoning district, the
standards in the overlay district apply in addition to the standards governing
development in the underlying conventional or planned unit development zoning
district.
   (D)   Land in the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be classified or
reclassified into a conventional, conditional district, planned unit
development or overlay zoning district only in accordance with the procedures
and requirements set forth in this article, §§
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment,
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments, or
3313, Planned Unit Development, as appropriate.
§ 411 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Zoning Districts Established Table listed below sets out the
conventional, planned unit development and overlay zoning districts established
by this ordinance.
   (B)   All land in the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be included in at
least one the available conventional or planned unit development zoning
districts.
Table 5 - Zoning Districts Established
Conventional Zoning Districts
Abbr. District Name   Abbr. District Name
Residential Districts Nonresidential Districts
Table 5 - Zoning Districts Established
Conventional Zoning Districts
Abbr.  District Name                  Abbr. District Name
Residential Districts                 Nonresidential Districts
                                      CB    Central Business
RA     Residential-Agricultural       CB-C  Central Business Conditional Use
RA-C   Residential-Agricultural       HB    Highway Business
       Conditional Use
R-9    Medium to High Density         HB-C  Highway Business Conditional Use
       Residential
R-9-C  Medium to High Density         I     Manufacturing and Industrial
       Residential Conditional Use
R-9M   High Density Residential       I-C   Manufacturing and Industrial
                                            Conditional Use
R-9M-C High Density Residential       LI    Light Industrial
       Conditional Use
R-15   Low to Medium Density Single-  LI-C  Light Industrial Conditional Use
       Family Residential
       Low to Medium Density Single-
R-15-C Family Residential Conditional NB    Neighborhood Business
       Use
R-20   Low Density Single-Family      NC-C  Neighborhood Business Conditional
       Residential                          Use
R-20-C Low Density Single-Family      OI    Office and Institutional
       Residential Conditional Use
                                      OI-C  Office and Institutional
                                            Conditional Use
Floating Development Districts        Overlay Zoning Districts
PUD    Planned unit development [1]   H     Historic
MUD    Mixed use [1]
NOTES:
[1] Planned unit or mixed use development districts are applied to individual
lots or developments, each with its own unique planned unit development
district designator.
 
§ 412 GENERALLY APPLICABLE DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Developments of multiple buildings or structures. Developments that
include multiple principal buildings as part of a single development, such as a
multi-family, shopping center or campus-style development, shall be subject to
a perimeter setback from all boundary lot lines and are exempted from setbacks
from lot lines internal to the development. Individual principal and accessory
buildings and structures within a multi-building development shall be set back
from one another in accordance with the building separation standards in the
zoning district where located.
   (B)   Drainage and utility easements in subdivisions.
      (1)   Wherever possible, drainage and public or private utility easements
shall be located within required setbacks, be at least ten feet in width and be
located along all lot lines adjacent to a street right-of-way as well as along
interior lot lines.
      (2)   Stormwater conveyance features located outside a drainage easement
shall be at least 20 feet in width and shall not include a habitable structure.
   (C)   Reductions prohibited. Except where otherwise authorized by this
ordinance:
      (1)   No lot shall be reduced in area below the minimum area requirements
for the district where located.
      (2)   Lots created after November 1, 1995, shall meet the minimum
dimensional requirements for the district where located.
   (D)   Required lot width. All buildable lots established after November 1,
1995, shall maintain the minimum required lot width on a street in accordance
with the dimensional requirements for the zoning district where located.
   (E)   Required yards. The land area between a lot line and the boundary of a
required setback is considered as a required yard. The location of street
(front), side or rear yards on irregularly shaped lots shall be determined by
the Town Planner. Wherever possible, the Town Planner shall interpret these
boundaries in ways that minimize nonconformities. Except for allowable
encroachments, required yards shall not be subject to encroachment by a
building, structure or outdoor use area.
   (F)   Setback from streets. No building shall be located closer to any
street right-of-way or existing private street pavement edge than the minimum
street setback line established by this ordinance.
   (G)   Split zoning. Wherever a single lot is located within two or more
different zoning districts, each portion of the lot shall be subject to all the
regulations applicable to the zoning district where it is located.
§ 413 ALLOWABLE ENCROACHMENTS.
   The Allowable Encroachments into Setbacks Table listed below sets out the
kinds of structures or building features that are permitted to encroach within
a required setback, subject to the following.
   (A)   Features identified in the table may encroach into a required setback
or required yard but may not cross a lot line into a lot under separate
ownership or included as part of a separate development.
   (B)   Regardless of the amount of permitted encroachment, features
identified in the table shall not:
      (1)   Obstruct visibility for motorists, pedestrians or bicyclists at any
street, driveway, accessway or intersection;
      (2)   Obstruct access for vehicles, pedestrians or bicyclists along
streets, sidewalks, trails or internal circulation routes; and
      (3)   Interfere with the function of infrastructure facilities.
   (C)   In the event a feature identified in the table encroaches into a
right-of-way owned or operated by the town or NCDOT, an encroachment agreement
with the town or NCDOT, as appropriate, shall be required.
   (D)   Structures or building features not listed in the table may only
encroach into a required setback following approval of a variance.
Table 6 - Allowable Encroachments into Setbacks
Site Feature Maximum Allowable Encroachment into a Required Setback [1]
Table 6 - Allowable Encroachments into Setbacks
Site Feature                            Maximum Allowable Encroachment into a
                                        Required Setback [1]
                                        May extend into any required setback,
                                        but shall be no closer than five feet
                                        from any lot line
                                        Must maintain a minimum height of at
Awning                                  least nine feet above a sidewalk or
                                        other pedestrian access and shall not
                                        encroach into a planting required
                                        landscaping area or into a vehicular
                                        travel way
                                        When attached to a principal structure,
                                        may extend up to four feet into any
                                        required setback, but shall be no
                                        closer than three feet from any lot
Balcony or bay window                   line and shall not interfere with a
                                        required landscaping area or with
                                        pedestrian or vehicular movement
                                        When attached to an accessory
                                        structure, may not encroach into a
                                        required setback
                                        May extend into any required setback,
                                        but shall be located no closer than
                                        five feet to a lot line
                                        Regardless of where located, shall
Canopy, attached                        maintain a minimum height of at least
                                        nine feet above a sidewalk or other
                                        pedestrian access and shall not
                                        encroach into a required landscaping
                                        area or into a vehicular travel way
Canopy, freestanding                    May not encroach into any required
                                        setback
                                        May extend up to three feet into any
Chimneys, fireplaces, outdoor kitchens  required setback, but shall be no
                                        closer than ten feet from any lot line
Cornice, beltcourse, sill, gutter or    May extend up to two feet into any
downspout                               required setback
Decks, covered                          May not encroach into any required
                                        setback
                                        May extend into any required setback,
                                        but shall be located no closer than
Decks, uncovered                        five feet to a lot line
                                        When attached to an accessory
                                        structure, may not encroach into a
                                        required setback
Detached garage or carport              May not encroach into any required
                                        setback
                                        May cross any required setback, but
Driveways                               shall be configured to avoid location
                                        within a setback, to the maximum extent
                                        practicable
Elevators and similar mechanical        May be located in any required setback
devices                                 when proposed as part of a reasonable
                                        accommodation
                                        May be located in any required setback
Fences or walls, excluding retaining    but shall not be located within a
walls                                   required sight distance triangle, nor
                                        within two feet of a lot or property
                                        line
                                        May not encroach into any required
                                        front setback
                                        May extend up to four feet into any
Fire escape                             required side or rear setback but shall
                                        maintain a minimum height of at least
                                        nine feet above a sidewalk or other
                                        pedestrian access
                                        May be located in any required setback,
Flagpoles, mailboxes, lamp and address  but flagpoles shall not be located
posts                                   within five feet of a street right-of-
                                        way
Gazebo or garden structure              May not encroach into any required
                                        setback
                                        May be located in any required setback
Handicap ramps                          provided it does not unduly obstruct
                                        pedestrian or vehicular access
Off-street parking area                 May not be located within a required
                                        setback
Outdoor display and sales               May not encroach into a required
                                        setback
Outdoor equipment (e.g., H.V.A.C.       May not encroach into any required
condenser, water heater and the like)   setback
                                        May extend into any required setback,
                                        but shall be located no closer than
                                        five feet to a lot line
Outdoor seating areas serving a         Regardless of where located, shall
nonresidential use                      maintain a minimum height of at least
                                        nine feet above a sidewalk or other
                                        pedestrian access and shall not
                                        encroach into a required landscaping
                                        area or into the vehicular travel way
Outdoor storage                         May not encroach into a required
                                        setback
                                        May encroach into a required setback,
Parking area, uncovered                 but shall not be located within a
                                        required landscaping area
Patio, covered                          May not encroach into any required
                                        setback
                                        May extend into any required setback,
                                        but shall be located no closer than
                                        five feet to a lot line
Patio, uncovered                        Regardless of where located, shall not
                                        encroach into a required landscaping
                                        area or into the vehicular travel way
                                        May not encroach into required setbacks
                                        when serving an accessory structure
Pet shelters or enclosures              Subject to the setbacks applied to
                                        accessory structures
Playground equipment accessory to a     May not encroach into a required
residential use                         setback
Potable water well house (functional or May be located in any required setback,
aesthetic)                              but shall be no closer than 15 feet to
                                        a right-of-way
                                        May encroach into a required setback
Public art                              but shall not be located within a
                                        required sight distance triangle
                                        May encroach into a required setback
Retaining walls                         but shall not be located within a
                                        required sight distance triangle
Roof eaves, rakes and overhangs         May extend up to two feet into any
                                        required setback
                                        May encroach into a required setback,
Signs                                   but shall not be located within a
                                        required landscaping area
                                        May encroach up to six feet into any
Steps and stairs                        required setback but no closer than ten
                                        feet to any lot line
Swimming pool, (including all ancillary May not encroach into any required
appurtenances)                          setback
Underground structures (including
septic systems but excluding swimming   May encroach into any required setback
pools)
Vegetation and landscaping features     May encroach into any required setback
 
DIVISION 2. RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 420 RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL-DISTRICT (RA).
District Intent
District Intent
The RA District is established to accommodate agriculture, agriculturally related
uses and limited forms of residential development at low densities in rural
portions of the town’s planning jurisdiction. The district is primarily intended to
preserve and protect bona fide farms and resource lands for current or future
agricultural use as well as to protect the rural character of the area. It is also
intended to ensure that residential development maintains appropriate densities
consistent with the suitability of land, availability of public services,
accessibility to transportation systems and that are compatible with surrounding
development. For all of the preceding reasons, after July 1, 2022, all subdivisions
in this district shall be conservation subdivisions developed under
Article 7, Division 8. The district also accommodates “agri-tourism” as well as
service and support uses to the rural community, including daycare, educational
uses, public safety facilities, parks and utility features.
Dimensional Standards [1]
Max. building height                      35
Max. density (units/ac)                   2.0 [2]
Min. access easement setback (lf)         15
Min. accessory structure setback (lf)     10
Min. building separation (lf)             10
Min. lot area (sf)                        20,000 [3]
Min. lot width (lf)                       100
Min. open space set-aside (% of total     15 [7]
site size)
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               25
Min. rear lot line setback (lf)           30
Min. side lot line setback (lf)           15 [5] [6]
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             40
   From local inside subdivision       40 [4]
   From local outside subdivision      40
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf”= linear feet.
[2] County Public Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[3] Duplexes may only be built on lots of at least 43,560 sq. ft.
[4] May be reduced to 20 in a subdivision served by a public water system.
[5] May be reduced to 5 in a subdivision with lots served by a public water system.
[6] One side setback may be reduced to zero if the opposing side setback is double
the minimum.
[7] Not applied to the development of an individual single-family detached dwelling
on its own lot, a nonresidential use or a development of two acres in area or less.
(C) Typical developments.
Figure 3                                  Figure 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1723.png]
Figure 5                                  Figure 6
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.png]
 
§ 421 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-20).
District Intent
District Intent
The Low Density Single-Family Residential (R-20) District is established to
accommodate low density residential neighborhoods and supporting uses throughout
the town’s planning jurisdiction in rural locations. The district is intended to
accommodate residential development in ways that will not interfere with
agricultural activity or negatively impact the surrounding rural character. For the
reasons in the preceding sentence, after July 1, 2022, all subdivisions in this
district shall be conservation subdivisions under
Article 7, Division 8. The district accommodates single-family detached homes and
associated accessory uses. It also allows supporting uses like public safety
facilities and utilities. District regulations discourage uses that interfere with
the development of residential dwellings or that are detrimental to the low density
residential nature of the district.
Figure 7                                  Figure 8
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1729.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1731.png]
Max. building height                      35
Max. density (units/ac)                   2.0 [2]
Min. access easement setback (lf)         15
Min. building separation (lf)             10
Min. lot area (sf)                        20,000 [3] [4]
Min. lot width (lf)                       100
Min. open space set-aside (% of total     15 [5]
site size)
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               25
Min. rear lot line setback (lf)           30
Min. side lot line setback (lf)           15 [3][4]
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             40
   From local inside subdivision       40
   From local outside subdivision      40
Min. accessory structure setback (lf)     10
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] County Public Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[3] Corner lots setback is 20 feet from the side street.
[4] One side setback may be reduced to zero if the opposing side setback is double
the minimum.
[5] Not applied to the development of an individual single-family detached dwelling
on its own lot, a nonresidential use or a development of two acres in area or less.
 
§ 422 LOW TO MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-15).
(A) District Intent.
The Low to Medium Density Single-Family Residential (R-15) District is established
to accommodate low-to-moderate density residential neighborhoods and supporting
uses throughout the town’s planning jurisdiction in suburban locations. The
district is intended to accommodate residential development on individual lots and
in neighborhood settings. The district accommodates single-family detached homes
and associated accessory uses. After July 1, 2022, all subdivisions in this
district shall be conservation subdivisions under
Article 7, Division 8. It also allows supporting uses like public safety
facilities, parks, educational uses and utilities. District regulations discourage
uses that interfere with the development of residential neighborhoods or that are
detrimental to the district’s single-family neighborhood character.
(B) Typical Development.
Figure 9                                  Figure 10
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1733.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1735.png]
Figure 11
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/IMAGES/
0-0-0-1737.png]
(C) Dimensional Standards. [1]
Max. building height                      35
Max. density (units/ac)                   2.5
Min. access easement setback (lf)         15
Min. accessory structure setback (lf)     10
Min. building separation (lf)             10
Min. lot area (sf)                        15,000 [2] [3]
Min. lot width (lf)                       75
Min. open space set-aside (% of total     15 [8]
site size)
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               20
Min. rear lot line setback (lf)           30
Min. side lot line setback (lf)           15[6][7]
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             40
   From local inside subdivision       25 [5]
   From local outside subdivision      25
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] County Public Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[3] Reserved.
[4] Reserved.
[5] 40 feet is preferred; 25 feet is permissible
[6] May be reduced to 12 feet. Corner lots setback is 20 feet from the side street.
[7] One side setback may be reduced to zero if the opposing side setback is double
the minimum.
[8] Not applied to the development of an individual single-family detached dwelling
on its own lot, a nonresidential use or a development of two acres in area or less.
 
§ 423 MEDIUM TO HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-9).
(A) District Intent.
It is the policy of the town not to rezone any property from RA, R-20 or R-15 to R-
9 after July 1, 2022. The Medium to High Density Residential (R-9) District was
established to accommodate a wide range of residential dwelling types at higher
densities. Development patterns consist primarily of residential neighborhoods and
supporting uses located adjacent to the historic town core and infill development.
The district accommodates single-family detached homes and associated accessory
uses as well as temporary manufactured homes, duplex and triplex dwellings. It also
allows supporting uses like public safety facilities, parks, educational uses and
utilities. District regulations discourage uses that interfere with the development
of residential neighborhoods or that are detrimental to the district’s neighborhood
character.
(B) Typical Development.
Figure 12                                 Figure 13
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1739.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1741.png]
Figure 14
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/IMAGES/
0-0-0-1743.png]
(C) Dimensional Standards. [1]
Max. building height                      35
Max. density (units/ac)                   4.0 [2]
Min. access easement setback (lf)         15
Min. accessory structure setback (lf)     10
Min. building separation (lf)             10
Min. lot area (sf)                        9,000 [3] [4] [5]
Min. lot width (lf)                       50 [10]
Min. open space set-aside (% of total     15 [9]
site size)
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               20
Min. rear lot line setback (lf)           10 [7]
Min. side lot line setback (lf)           10 [7][8]
Min. street setback (lf)                   
   From arterial/collector             70
   From local outside subdivision      50
   From local inside subdivision       25 [6]
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] Reserved.
[3] County Public Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[4] Reserved.
[5] Duplexes may only be established on lots of 12,000 sf or larger. Triplexes
require a min. lot area of 15,000 sf
[6] May be reduced to 20 in a subdivision served by a public water system.
[7] Corner lots setback is 20 feet from the side street. On other lots, min. side
yard may be reduced to 10 feet.
[8] One side setback may be reduced to zero if the opposing side setback is double
the minimum.
[9] Not applied to the development of an individual single-family detached dwelling
on its own lot, a nonresidential use or a development of two acres in area or less.
[10] Duplexes require a min. lot width of 100 ft.; triplexes require a min. lot
width of 120 ft. (if a dwelling unit is on the second floor, subtract 20 ft. from
the min. lot width). Townhouses require a minimum lot width of 80 ft. + 20 ft. for
every additional dwelling unit on the first floor.
 
§ 424 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R-9M).
District Intent
District Intent
The High Density Residential (R-9M) district is established to accommodate a
wide range of residential and institutional use types at medium to high
densities. The district allows a wide range of housing types, including
duplexes, triplexes, townhouses and multi-family development (apartments),
but manufactured housing is not permitted. The district also allows a wide
variety of institutional uses, including community centers, daycare, schools,
assisted living, churches, parks and utilities. Lots served by public sewer
may have reduced minimum lot sizes. District regulations are intended to
support the town’s investment in infrastructure by encouraging the
development of compact, vibrant neighborhoods with a variety of house sizes
and types that are located in close proximity to the historic downtown and
complementary institutional uses. Multi-family development is typically
denser than its immediate surroundings and can also serve as an effective
transition between single-family detached development and adjacent commercial
or employment uses. Buildings in the R-9M District tend to have shared site
access, shared building access, common site features (like recreation space)
owned in common and centralized service functions. It is the policy of the
town not to rezone any additional land to the R-9M District unless it is
adjacent to the historic town core or a newly-established urban core built in
the PUD or MUD zoning districts.
Figure 15                          Figure 16
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08efeef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1745.png]             IMAGES/0-0-0-1747.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
Requirement              Duplex    Triplex    Townhouse  Multi-     All Other
                                                         family     Uses
Max. building height     35        35         45         45         40
Max. density (units/ac)  6.0 [2]   6.0 [2]    12.0 [2]   12.0 [2]   N/A
Min. access easement     15        15         N/A        N/A        N/A
setback (lf)
Min. accessory structure 10        10         10         10 [6]     10
setback (lf)
Min. building separation 10        10         20         25 [4]     20
(lf)
                                              18,000 for
                                              4 units    Same as
Min. lot area (sf) [5]   12,000    15,000 [7] plus 3,000 Townhouse  43,560
                                              for each   [7]
                                              additional
                                              unit [7]
Min. lot width (lf) [3]  100       120        140        Ditto      150
Min. open space set-
aside (% of total site   15        15         20         20         N/A
size) [13]
Min. perimeter setback   N/A       N/A        20         20         20
(lf)
Min. rear lot line       25        25         25         25         10
setback (lf)
Min. side lot line       10 [9]    10 [9]     20         20         10
setback (lf)
Min. street setback (lf)                                         
   From arterial/     40        40         40         40         40
collector
   From local inside  40        40         40         40         40
subdivision
   From local outside 40        40         40         40         40
subdivision
R-9M District Dimensional Standards Continued [1]
Notes (for R-9M District dimensional requirements):
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] This is a theoretical maximum. All standards of this ordinance must be
met.
[3] Minimum lot width may be decreased by 20 ft. for each dwelling unit
located above the first floor.
[4] 0.5 ft. where one building face contains both windows and doors.
[5] County Environmental Health may require a larger minimum lot area based
on soil conditions.
[6] 0.5 ft. where multi-family abuts property zoned or developed as single-
family residential.
[7] Minimum development size.
[8] May be reduced to 20 in a subdivision served by a public water system.
[9] 20 feet on corner lot facing a side street.
 
DIVISION 3. NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 430 OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT (OI).
District Intent
District Intent
The Office and Institutional (OI) District is established to accommodate
office uses, research and development facilities and multi-family
residential uses in high quality single-building and multi-building
developments. The district also accommodates the ancillary service uses
necessary to support the predominant office development, but is not
intended as a retail district. Retail, personal service and other
commercial uses permitted as accessory to an office or institutional use
should not occupy more than 10% of the floor area and should be
configured to minimize visibility from off-site areas. The OI District
also serves as a transition area between higher intensity commercial uses
and nearby lower density single-family residential neighborhoods.
Development in the OI District is subject to design standards to ensure
it maintains compatibility with its surroundings.
Figure 17                              Figure 18
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/     [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1749.png]                 IMAGES/0-0-0-1751.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
Requirement          Nonresidential    Townhouse and Duplex and Triplex
                     Development       Multi-Family
Max. building height 45                              35
Max. density (units/ N/A               12.0 [2]      6,0 [2]
ac)
Min. access easement N/A               N/A           15
setback (lf)
Min. building        20                20            10
separation (lf)
Min. lot area (sf)   40,000            40,000 [4]    40,000 [4]
[3]
Min. lot width (lf)  100 [5]           100 [5]       100 [5]
Min. open space set-
aside (% of total    N/A               20            15 [7]
site size)
Min. perimeter       20                20            N/A
setback (lf)
Min. side or rear
lot line setback
from a               10                10            10
nonresidential
district (lf)
Min. side or rear
lot line setback     20                20            20
from a residential
district (lf)
Min. street setback
(lf)
   From arterial/ 40                40            40
collector
   From local     20                20            20
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] This is a theoretical maximum. All requirements of this ordinance
must be met.
[3] County Environmental Health may require a larger minimum lot area
based on soil conditions.
[4] Minimum development size.
[5] Applied to entire development site, not individual lots.
 
§ 431 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (NB).
District Intent
District Intent
The Neighborhood Business (NB) District is intended for low intensity,
neighborhood-serving commercial development around significant roadway
intersections along the edges of neighborhoods. The district allows offices,
personal services and small-scale retail and a variety of institutional uses. As a
means of providing additional housing options, the district allows multi-family
residential uses on upper floors of nonresidential uses. Industrial development and
single-use multi-family residential uses are not permitted. New commercial
development is built close to the street and subject to commercial design standards
to raise the bar for development quality. District regulations discourage uses that
are too intense or that draw the majority of their patrons from outside the
immediate area.
Typical Development
Figure 19                                 Figure 20
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1753.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1755.png]
Figure 21                                 Figure 22
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1757.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1759.png]
Requirement                               Nonresidential Multi-Family (allowed on
                                          Development    upper stories only)
Max. building floor area (sf)             20,000         5,000 per floor [4]
Max. building height                      35             45
Max. density (units/ac)                   N/A            12.0 [2]
Min. access easement setback (lf)         N/A
Min. building separation (lf)             20
Min. lot area (sf) [3]                    N/A            N/A
Min. lot width (lf)                       N/A
Min. open space set-aside (% of total     N/A            20
site size) [9]
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               20
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 10
nonresidential district (lf)
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 20
residential district (lf)
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             20
   From local                          20
Notes:
[1] “sf”= square feet; “lf”= linear feet.
[2] 12 is a theoretical maximum. All requirements of this ordinance must be met.
[3] County Public Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[4] May be added to the maximum floor area for a nonresidential use.
[5] Not applied to the development of an individual building on its own lot.
Additional NB District Standards
All nonresidential use types permitted in the NB District shall be subject to the
following standards.
(1) No lot shall include nonresidential floors of more than 20,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
(2) No more than five employees shall work at the same time in a retail trade use
type.
(3) Outdoor storage is prohibited.
(4) Hours of operation for commercial uses shall be restricted to between 6:00 a.m.
and 12:00 a.m.
(5) Drive-through or drive-up facilities are prohibited.
(6) Except for street lighting, no exterior lighting shall be located higher than
15 feet above ground or pavement.
(7) Off-street parking lots shall be located to the side or rear of buildings.
(8) Where possible, access to off-street parking areas shall be via an alley or
driveway located to the side or rear of a lot.
(9) A maximum of five dwelling units per floor may be provided on the upper levels
of a building containing a first-floor nonresidential use.
 
§ 432 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CB).
District Intent
District Intent
The Central Business (CB) District is the primary district intended to serve
retail, business and service uses in the town’s planning jurisdiction and is found
along Main St. (N.C. 205) and major arterial streets and on lots surrounding the
core of town. Development in the CB District tends to be pedestrian oriented and
comprised of a mix of individual buildings on individual sites and multi-tenant or
multi-building developments located on Main Street. Most of the CB District is also
in the historic overlay district. In addition to commercial uses, the district also
accommodates a wide range of institutional uses. Limited forms of residential use
are allowed. Uses in the district are subject to standards intended to ensure
development is compatible with adjacent residential neighborhoods, ensure that the
traffic-carrying capacity along the town’s major roadways is not impaired due to
unsafe turning movements, and that development is well landscaped and aesthetically
pleasing. In order to maintain compatibility with surrounding uses and ensure a
high quality of development, all activities, including storage, shall be indoors or
be fully screened from view from the street or from lands in lower-intensity zoning
districts.
Typical Development
Figure 23                                 Figure 24
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1761.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1763.png]
Figure 25
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/IMAGES/
0-0-0-1765.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
Requirement                               Nonresidential Residential Development
                                          Development
Max. density (units/ac)                   N/A            12.0 [2]
Max. building height                      40             40
Max. building separation (lf) [5]         20             10
Min. access easement setback (lf)         N/A            15
Min. lot area (sf) [3]                    11,000         11,000 [4]
Min. lot width (lf)                       150            150
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 10             10
nonresidential district (lf)
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 20             20
residential district (lf)
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             [2]            [2]
   From local                          None           None
Notes:
[1] “sf”= square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
[2] On lots fronting N.C. 205, the front wall of all new building shall either
match the setbacks of the adjoining buildings or about the sidewalk. Outdoor
restaurants may be set back up to 50 feet from the rights-of-way (ROW) if a low
wall, fence or screen is placed at the building setback line. Where there is no
adjoining building and/or existing utility easements preclude the placement of the
front building wall at the back of sidewalks, the front building wall can be
located no more than 18 feet from the edge of the ROW. No parking is permitted
between the ROW and the front building wall.
[3] County Environmental Health may require a larger minimum lot area based on soil
conditions.
[4] Lots must be served by a public water system.
[5] Fire codes may require a different separation.
 
§ 433 HIGHWAY BUSINESS (HB).
District Intent
District Intent
The Highway Business (HB) District is the primary district intended to serve
retail, business and service uses in the town’s planning jurisdiction and is found
along major arterial streets outside of the core of town. Development in the HB
District tends to be automobile oriented and comprised of a mix of individual
buildings on individual sites and multi-tenant or
multi-building developments located near major roadway intersections. In addition
to commercial uses, the district also accommodates wholesale sales and a wide range
of institutional uses. Limited forms of temporary residential use are allowed.
Uses in the district are subject to standards intended to ensure development is
compatible with adjacent residential neighborhoods, ensure that the traffic
carrying capacity along the town’s major roadways is not impaired due to unsafe
turning movements and that development is well landscaped and aesthetically
pleasing. In order to maintain compatibility with surrounding uses and ensure a
high quality of development, all activities, including storage, shall be indoors or
be fully screened from view from the street or from lands in lower-intensity zoning
districts.
Typical Development
Figure 26                                 Figure 27
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1767.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1769.png]
Figure 28
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/IMAGES/
0-0-0-1771.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
Requirement                               All Development
Max. building height                      50
Max. density (units/ac)                   N/A
Min. access easement setback (lf)         N/A
Min. building separation (lf)             20
Min. lot area (sf) [2]                    43,560
Min. lot width (lf)                       100
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               20
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a Side 10, Rear 20
nonresidential district (lf)
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 20
residential district (lf)
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             40
   From local                          30
Notes:
[1] “sf”= square feet; “lf”= linear feet.
[2] County Environmental Health may require a specific lot area based on soil
conditions.
 
§ 434 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (LI).
District Intent
District Intent
The Light Industrial (LI) District is established to accommodate warehousing
and light manufacturing uses, including assembly, fabrication, processing,
distribution, storage and wholesales sale of finished or semi-finished
products from previously prepared materials. The district also allows
commercial activities intended to serve the primary businesses in the district
and their employees. Uses allowed in the district may require large amounts of
land or large building areas for operation or large yard areas for isolation
or protection from adjoining premises or activities. Activities take place
outdoors or indoors. Buildings or uses are situated in outlying areas on large
tracts to reduce impacts on adjacent lower intensity uses. Heavy industrial
uses and uses with significant adverse impacts on adjoining lands, single-
family detached homes and other low-intensity uses are not permitted.
Typical Development
Figure 29                                 Figure 30
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1773.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1775.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
                                          Industrial
Requirement                               and         All other Uses
                                          Commercial
                                          Uses
Max. building height                      50          50
Max. density (units/ac)                   N/A         N/A
Min. access easement setback (lf)         N/A         15
Min. building separation (lf)             20          10
Min. lot area (sf)                        87,120      43,560
Min. lot width (lf)                       200         150
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               40
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 15 side, 20 15 side, 20 rear
nonresidential district (lf)              rear
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 40          40
residential district (lf)
Min. street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             50          50
   From local                          40          40
Notes:
[1] “sf”= square feet; “lf”= linear feet.
 
§ 435 MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I)
District Intent
District Intent
The Manufacturing and Industrial (I) District is established to accommodate
heavy manufacturing uses, including storage and processing of raw materials,
fabrication and processing from raw materials, resource extraction, assembly,
distribution, storage and wholesales sale of finished or semi-finished
products from previously prepared materials. The district also allows
commercial activities intended to serve the primary businesses in the district
and their employees. Uses allowed in the district may require large amounts of
land or large building areas for operation or large yard areas for isolation
or protection from adjoining premises or activities. Activities take place
outdoors or indoors. Buildings or uses are situated in outlying areas on large
tracts to reduces impacts on adjacent lower intensity uses. Heavy industrial
uses and uses with significant adverse impacts on adjoining lands, single-
family detached homes and other low intensity uses are permitted.
Typical Development
Figure 31                                 Figure 32
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/ eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1777.png]                    IMAGES/0-0-0-1779.png]
Dimensional Standards [1]
                                          Commercial
Requirements                              and         All Other Uses
                                          Industrial
                                          Uses
Max. building height                      50          50
Max. density (units/ac)                   N/A         N/A
Min. access easement setback (lf)         N/A         15
Min. building separation (lf)             20          10
Min. perimeter setback (lf)               50
Min. lot area (sf)                        114,420     43,560
Min. lot width (lf)                       200         150
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 15 side, 20 15 side, 20 rear
nonresidential district (lf)              rear
Min. side or rear lot line setback from a 60          40
residential district (lf)
Minimum street setback (lf)
   From arterial/collector             60          50
   From local                          60          40
Notes:
[1] “sf” = square feet; “lf” = linear feet.
 
DIVISION 4. CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 440 CONDITIONAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   In addition to the
Article 4, Division 2 residential zoning districts and the Division 3
nonresidential zoning districts, for each one of the districts established in
Divisions 2 and 3, a corresponding conditional zoning district is established.
See §
411, Districts Established,
Table 5.
   The conditional zoning districts are identical to the zoning districts
established in Divisions 2 and 3 except that more restrictive development
standards are required.
DIVISION 5. FLOATING DISTRICTS: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
AND MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT (MUD) DISTRICTS
PART 1. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 450 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is established and intended to
encourage innovative land planning and site design concepts that support a high
quality of life and achieve a high quality of development, environmental
sensitivity, energy efficiency and other town goals by:
   (A)   Reducing or diminishing the inflexibility or uniform design that
sometimes results from strict application of zoning and development standards
designed primarily for individual lots;
   (B)   Allowing greater freedom in selecting the means of providing access,
open space and design amenities;
   (C)   Allowing greater freedom in providing a well-integrated mix of
residential and nonresidential land uses in the same development, including a
mix of housing types, lot sizes and densities;
   (D)   Creating a system of incentives for redevelopment and infill in order
to revitalize established areas;
   (E)   Promoting a vibrant public realm by placing increased emphasis on
active ground floor uses, pedestrian-oriented building facade design, intensive
use of sidewalks and establishment of public gathering areas;
   (F)   Providing for efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of
utilities and streets and thereby lowering development and housing costs; and
   (G)   Promoting quality design and environmentally sensitive development
that respects surrounding established land use character and respects and takes
advantage of a site’s natural and human-made features, such as trees,
ridgelines, special flood hazard areas and historic features.
§ 451 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ALL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   How established. A planned unit development is established in
accordance with the procedures and requirements in §
3313, Planned Unit Development.
   (B)   Establishment limited.
      (1)   A planned unit development district may be established on land in
any zoning district at the time the planned unit development application is
filed.
      (2)   Nothing shall limit land that is newly annexed and receiving its
first zoning district designation from the town to be designated as a planned
unit development, provided an application for establishment of the district has
been submitted in accordance with this ordinance.
   (C)   Master plan required. All development configured as a PUD shall be
subject to a master plan submitted and approved as part of the application to
establish the district. The master plan shall:
      (1)   Include a statement of planning objectives for the district;
      (2)   Describe the specific ways in which any modifications to the
generally applicable standards in this ordinance will result in a development
of higher quality than would have otherwise resulted if the development were
established without any proposed modifications to the standards in this
ordinance;
      (3)   Identify the general location of individual development areas,
identified by land use(s) and/or development density or intensity;
      (4)   Depict the general configuration and relationship of the principal
elements of the proposed development, including general building types;
      (5)   Identify for the entire district and each development area, the
acreage, types and mix of land uses, number of residential units (by use type),
nonresidential floor area (by use type), residential density and nonresidential
intensity;
      (6)   Identify the general location, amount and type (whether designated
for active or passive) of open space;
      (7)   Identify the location of environmentally sensitive lands, wildlife
habitats and resource protection lands;
      (8)   Identify the on-site transportation circulation system, including
the general location of all public and private streets, existing or projected
transit services, pedestrian and vehicular circulation features, and how they
will connect with existing and planned systems;
      (9)   Identify the general location of on-site potable water and
wastewater facilities, and how they will connect to existing systems;
      (10)   Identify the general location of on-site stormwater management
facilities and how they will connect to existing public systems; and
      (11)   Identify the general location of all other on-site public
facilities serving the development, including, but not limited to, parks,
schools, bus shelters and facilities for fire protection, police protection,
EMS and solid waste management.
§ 452 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   Planned unit developments that include the division of land into two or more
lots shall be subject to the subdivision standards in
Article 7, Subdivisions, and shall be subject to the requirements of §§
3310, Major Subdivision, and
3309, Final Plat, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
§ 453 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The planned unit development master plan may take the form of a
generalized concept plan for development that provides a general indication of
building and site feature location, or it may be configured to the level of
detail associated with site plans and construction drawings depicting exact
building placement, location and profile of public infrastructure and
configuration of site features like parking, landscaping and similar elements.
   (B)   In cases where the master plan is more general or conceptual in
nature, the development proposed in the planned unit development designation
shall also undergo site plan review in accordance with §
3317, Site Plan.
   (C)   In cases where the master plan is detailed and meets the minimum
requirements for a site plan in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, the
applicant shall request, and the Board of Commissioners may grant, an exemption
from subsequent site plan review.
   (D)   If a site plan review exemption is granted by the Board of
Commissioners, the proposed development shall fully comply with the development
configuration depicted in the planned unit development master plan. Failure to
comply with the approved master plan configuration shall require an amendment
of the planned unit development application in accordance with this section.
§ 454 DENSITIES/INTENSITIES.
   The densities for residential development and the intensities for
nonresidential development applicable in each development area of a PUD
district shall be as established in the master plan, and shall be consistent
with the maximums specified in the zoning ordinance for the applicable unit
types, except those residences on the upper floors of nonresidential structures
shall be exempt from the maximum density limits. In no case shall the gross
density of a PUD be more than five dwelling units per acre.
§ 455 DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   The dimensional standards applicable in each development area of a PUD
district shall be as established in the master plan. The master plan shall
include at least the following types of dimensional standards:
   (A)   Minimum lot area;
   (B)   Minimum lot width;
   (C)   Minimum and maximum setbacks;
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage;
   (E)   Maximum building height;
   (F)   Maximum individual building size; and
   (G)   Minimum setbacks from adjoining residential development or residential
zoning districts.
§ 456 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All development in a PUD district may comply with the development
standards of
Article 6, Division 12, Mixed Use Development Standards, unless modified in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   In cases where a planned unit development district is proposed as part
of redevelopment of an existing site and the existing site does not comply with
the standards of this ordinance, the development contemplated in the planned
unit development shall not be required to achieve full compliance, but shall
not increase the degree to which the development fails to comply with the
standards in this ordinance.
§ 457 CONSISTENCY WITH ADOPTED POLICY GUIDANCE.
   The PUD zoning district designation, the master plan and the terms and
conditions document should be consistent with the comprehensive plan and any
other adopted policy guidance.
§ 458 COMPATIBILITY WITH SURROUNDING AREAS.
   (A)   Development along the perimeter of a PUD district shall be compatible
with adjacent existing or proposed development outside the district. Where
there are issues of compatibility, the master plan shall provide for transition
areas at the edges of the PUD district that provide for appropriate buffering
and/or ensure a complementary character of uses.
   (B)   Determination of complementary character shall be based on densities/
intensities, lot size and dimensions, building height, building mass and scale,
hours of operation, exterior lighting, siting of service areas or other aspects
identified by the Board of Commissioners.
§ 459 DEVELOPMENT PHASING PLAN.
   If development in the PUD district is proposed to be phased, the master plan
shall include a development phasing plan that identifies the general sequence
or phases in which the district is proposed to be developed, including how
residential and nonresidential development will be timed, how infrastructure
(public and private) and open space will be provided and timed, and how
development will be coordinated with the town’s capital improvements program.
§ 459.1 CONVERSION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The planned unit development application may include a conversion
schedule that identifies the extent to which one type of residential use may be
converted to another type of residential use or one type of nonresidential use
may be converted to another type of nonresidential use (i.e., residential to
residential or nonresidential to nonresidential). These conversions may occur
within development areas and between development areas, as long as they occur
within the same development phase, as identified by the approved development
phasing plan, and are consistent with established extents of conversion set
down in the conversion schedule.
   (B)   In the event an applicant seeks to revise the development in
accordance with an approved conversion schedule, the applicant shall provide a
revised site plan depicting the proposed conversions to the Town Planner for
review and approval prior to commencing any conversions.
§ 459.2 ON-SITE PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   (A)   Design and construction. The master plan shall establish the
responsibility of the developer/landowner to design and construct or install
required and proposed on-site public facilities in compliance with applicable
town, state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Dedication. The master plan shall establish the responsibility of the
developer/landowner to dedicate to the public the right-of-way and easements
necessary for the construction or installation of required and proposed on-site
public facilities in compliance with applicable town, state and federal
regulations.
   (C)   Modifications to street standards. In approving a master plan, the
Board of Commissioners may approve modifications or reductions of street design
standards, including those for right-of-way widths, pavement widths, required
materials, provision of public transit amenities and turning radii, with NCDOT
approval, on finding that:
      (1)   The master plan provides for adequate separation/integration of
vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle traffic;
      (2)   Access for emergency service vehicles is not substantially
impaired;
      (3)   Adequate parking is provided for the uses proposed; and
      (4)   Adequate space for public utilities is provided within the street
right-of-way.
§ 459.3 ALLOWABLE USES.
   (A)   The uses allowed in a PUD district are identified in §§
527, Principal Uses Table, and
543, Table of Common Accessory Uses, as allowed subject to a master plan.
Allowed uses shall be listed in the approved master plan or terms and
conditions documents. Allowed uses shall be consistent with adopted policy
guidance, the purpose of the particular PUD district, and subject to any
additional use standards in this ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing shall limit an applicant from seeking to modify an otherwise
applicable use standard in accordance with these standards. Open space shall be
provided following the standards in
Article 6, Division 6, except that at least one-third of the open space
provided shall be open to the public or offered for dedication to the town. The
Board of Commissioners may vary this standard in its sole discretion.
§ 459.4 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   The terms and conditions document shall incorporate by reference or include,
but not be limited to:
   (A)   Conditions related to approval of the application for the PUD zoning
district classification;
   (B)   The master plan, including any density/intensity standards,
dimensional standards and development standards established in the master plan;
   (C)   Conditions related to the approval of the master plan, including any
conditions related to the form and design of development shown in the master
plan;
   (D)   Provisions addressing how transportation, potable water, wastewater,
stormwater management and other infrastructure will be provided to accommodate
the proposed development;
   (E)   Provisions related to environmental protection and monitoring;
   (F)   The range of allowable and accessory uses; and
   (G)   Any other provisions the Board of Commissioners determines are
relevant and necessary to the development of the PUD in accordance with
applicable standards and regulations.
§ 459.5 AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED MASTER PLAN.
   Amendments or modifications to a master plan shall only be considered in
accordance with the standards in §
3313, Planned Unit Development.
PART 2. MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS
§ 459.10 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the mixed use development district (MUD) is to provide
for the orderly development of land with a mix of land uses and intensities.
MUD zoning is intended to permit innovation and flexibility in the design,
construction and processing of mixed use developments in exchange for the
developer providing enhanced design elements that exceed the requirements of
the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO). While the conventional zoning
districts and the requirements of those districts set forth in the UDO are
reasonable in most cases, there are parcels of land that are more appropriate
to be developed with a mixed use zoning district. Furthermore, there may be
circumstances in which it is in the community’s best interest to allow unique
and/or creative designs and techniques that:
      (1)   Promote the most appropriate use of a parcel;
      (2)   Allow diversification of use;
      (3)   Facilitate the adequate and economical provision of streets, parks,
open space, schools, storm drainage and sewer and water utilities;
      (4)   Preserve and utilize open space, tree cover, topography and
significant natural features;
      (5)   Offer recreational opportunities close to residential uses;
      (6)   Create physically integrated and interconnected neighborhoods that
provide safe cross-access for vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians; and
      (7)   Enhance neighborhood appearance/design.
§ 459.11 PROCEDURES AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A MUD shall be processed as a conditional district zoning map
amendment (rezoning) as a special purpose zoning district and shall follow the
process outlined in §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments.
   (B)   In addition, the town may retain one of more professionals to review
the application. For that reason, the review of the application may be
extended. Prior to submission of an application, the Project Review Committee
shall conduct a pre-application meeting with the applicant. Because the MUD is
intended to be utilized for innovative and creative design, it is understood
that flexibility from certain requirements may be warranted. The purpose of the
meeting is to review the proposed development and to determine the
applicability.
   (C)   Each application for a MUD shall include a written narrative
explaining why approval of the MUD is in the community’s best interest, why it
cannot be developed through the conventional zoning process and how the
proposed project complies with §
459.10(A)(1) through (A)(7), . The narrative shall also provide justification
for any modification from minimum standard or requirement.
   (D)   The application shall also include a scaled site plan or plans,
illustrating the location and extent of all structures, both residential and
commercial, and uses as required in §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments, or a site plan (§
3317, Site Plan). The site plan shall be designed in accordance with
Article 4, Division 4, and
Article 6, Division 12, Mixed Use Development Standards, and shall include
sufficient engineering data to ensure that the project is achievable in the
manner proposed. Such engineering data shall include proposed street cross-
sections, stormwater improvement details and utility service information. If
the proposed MUD is a multi-phase development, each phase shall be clearly
indicated, with site data included for each phase and for the overall project.
The design of future phases in a more conceptual basis for projects with longer
anticipated build-outs may be considered on a case-by-case basis provided that
engineering data is sufficient to ensure that the future phase of the project
can be developed in a manner consistent with the initial phase or phases. In
the event that it is determined, after approval of the initial phases, that
these future phases are not consistent, a modification of the approved zoning
shall be required.
   (E)   The site plans shall include the size, type and maximum height of all
proposed structures. The plans shall also specify minimum setbacks for
structures and minimum dimensional specifications for each proposed use and the
type of landscaping buffers separating the uses. The application shall also
include architectural renderings of all proposed nonresidential structures
(with building type construction) and all residential structures with the
exception of dwellings subject to the One- and Two-Family Building Code. The
site plan and application shall also indicate the location, size and type of
all proposed signage. A maintenance plan for all spaces in common ownership
shall be provided.
§ 459.12 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   Mixed use developments that include the division of land into two or more
lots shall be subject to the subdivision standards in
Article 7, Subdivisions, and shall be subject to the requirements of §§
3310, Major Subdivision, and
3309, Final Plat, prior to the issuance of a building permit.
§ 459.13 LAND USE COMPOSITION AND PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The proposed MUD shall:
      (1)   Contain at least two distinct land uses and, if not within a single
building, shall contain two distinct building types. At least one of the land
uses shall be nonresidential;
      (2)   Any plans submitted shall follow the mandatory design standards and
guidelines found in
Article 4, Division, Part 2, §
459.19, Design Elements for Mixed Use and Planned Unit Developments, as listed
below;
Table 7 - Mandatory Design Standards for Mixed Use Developments
Section Name
Table 7 - Mandatory Design Standards for Mixed Use Developments
Section   Name
6121      Blocks, Buildings and Street Networks
6122      Block Design
6123      Site Design for Multiple Building Developments
6124      Street Networks
6125      Pedestrian Passthrough Design
6126      Required Public Amenities
6127      Optional Design Guidelines
Article 6 Development Standards, not inconsistent with the preceding sections.
          When in conflict, the stricter standards control.
 
      (3)   The Town Board may waive any of the mandatory design standards
which are impossible to meet given the size, configuration or types of proposed
development. In addition, every mixed use development shall choose and follow
two of the optional design standards;
      (4)   Designate at least 15% of either the land or floor area as
nonresidential uses within the first phase of the project (if the project
consists of multiple phases). Section
527, Principal Uses Table, shall be used for guidance for the determination of
nonresidential uses;
      (5)   Be compliant with the densities specified in the most current
comprehensive plan;
      (6)   Conservation subdivision and townhome uses are permissible. See the
standards at
Article 4, Division 5, Part 2, §
459.19, Mixed Use Development Standards; and
      (7)   (a)   Open space shall be provided following the standards in
Article 6, Division 6, except that at least one-third of the open space
provided shall be open to the public or offered for dedication to the town.
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners may vary this standard in its sole
discretion.
§ 459.14 MINIMUM LAND AREA.
   No minimum land area is required for rezoning to a MUD district.
§ 459.15 DESIGN STANDARD FLEXIBILITY.
   (A)   The proposed MUD shall generally meet dimensional requirements of the
UDO and any adopted town engineering standards. However, minor modifications of
some non-safety related dimensional standards may be considered where
appropriate. The MUD may provide for flexibility in the development of the site
and the applicant shall clearly demonstrate that the requested modifications
will result in a more innovative design and will be in the community’s best
interest. These modifications may be considered provided if the project
contains the mandatory and optional enhanced design elements as specified in
Article 6, Division 11.
   (B)   Recommended design elements for mixed use and planned unit
developments. All requested modifications shall be clearly stated within the
application narrative and labeled on the proposed site plan. All dimensional
and minimum standards shall be adhered to unless specifically listed as a
modification within the narrative and on the site plan.
   (C)   All densities shall comply with the maximums specified in the zoning
ordinance for the applicable unit types, except those residences on the upper
floors of nonresidential structures shall be exempt from the maximum density
limits. In no case shall the gross density of a MUD be more than six gross
dwelling units per acre.
   (D)   Unless otherwise requested as deviations, minimum dimensional
requirements for residential uses shall comply with Residential Nine (R-9) and
Residential Nine M (R-9M) minimum requirements.
   (E)   A perimeter buffer shall be provided based on the land use type(s) in
the MUD and the adjacent land use type(s). See the Buffer Applications Table at
§ 650(K). In no case shall the buffer be smaller, or contain fewer plantings,
than a Type A separation buffer. In the instances of a MUD district that is an
infill project, or when the project is contiguous to a Neighborhood Business
(NB), Historic District or Central Business (CB) District, the buffer may be
modified. This modification shall be considered based upon the characteristics
of adjacent roadways or adjacent land uses, but in no instances may be less
than a Type A separation buffer. The applicant shall clearly demonstrate that
any deviation from the required buffer(s) will result in a more innovative
design and will be in the community’s best interest. This buffer shall not be
counted as part of the required minimum open space for the development, the
buffer shall not be located within the lot area of any individual building lot,
and no encroachments are permissible within the buffer.
   (F)   Buffers between individual uses in the proposed MUD shall be provided,
and dimensions shall be clearly labeled on the site plan.
   (G)   In no instances are modifications allowed to state or federally
mandated standards such as stormwater requirements, floodplain protection
requirements, Building Code, minimum Fire Code requirements or State Department
of Transportation (NCDOT) or town minimum safety standards.
§ 459.16 PROFESSIONAL DESIGN TEAM REQUIRED.
   (A)   An applicant for a MUD approval shall certify, in writing at the time
of application, that a member of one or more of the following professions was
used in the planning and design process for the proposed development:
      (1)   Project planning and design by a licensed state architect, licensed
state landscape architect or planner certified by the American Institute of
Certified Planners (A/GP);
      (2)   Landscaping design by a licensed state landscape architect; and
      (3)   Site engineering by a state registered engineer.
§ 459.17 MODIFICATION OF APPROVED MASTER PLAN.
   Modification of the approved master plan is permissible in accordance with §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments.
§ 459.18 SIGN STANDARDS.
   Sign standards for a MUD district shall be governed by
Article 6, Division 8, Signage, or through sign standards approved with the MUD
district. In no instance may a MUD district be requested solely for the
modification of a sign standard.
§ 459.19 DESIGN PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   As indicated in §
459.10, MUD zoning is intended to permit flexibility in the design,
construction and processing of residential, commercial, office and/or
industrial developments of a quality that could not be achieved under
conventional zoning concepts. However, certain minimal design standards shall
apply, and the zoning application for each project will be reviewed considering
the below items.
      (1)   When 30 or more residential units are proposed, the project shall
include a variety of housing stock that serves a range of incomes and age
groups. Examples may include attached and detached single-family, clustered
detached single-family neighborhoods, clustered townhouses, multi-family and
dwelling units above commercial. The variety may include differing sizes of the
same housing type, such as a mixture of larger and smaller lot sizes to
accommodate a variety of single-family home designs.
      (2)   Uses are compact and well integrated as opposed to widely separated
and buffered.
      (3)   The project is well integrated into established adjacent areas
relative to existing development standards, scale and use, with compatibility
being achieved through effective architectural design and site planning.
      (4)   Open space is a significant element of the project’s design. These
open spaces shall include active and passive open space with an emphasis on
accessible trails and connections to both existing and proposed greenways. All
open space shall be specifically labeled and defined on the submitted site plan
to include uses and aesthetic design. Additionally, all open spaces shall be
accessible by a street, sidewalk, greenway or trail. While environmentally
sensitive areas (floodplains, wetlands and the like) may be within the minimum
open space, at least 50% of the open space shall be upland area (non-
environmentally sensitive). At least 25% of the overall gross land area of the
site shall be designated as open space and 30% of the required open space on
the site shall consist of active open space, except that this requirement may
be modified in the event that the applicant demonstrates that the project is
“infill” and is located adjacent to a sidewalk or trail network and is within
walkable distance of active open space.
      (5)   The proposed development includes a variety of interconnected
street types that are accessible to pedestrian, bicycle and automobile, and
residential and nonresidential areas shall be connected for both vehicles and
pedestrians. The street pattern shall be designed in such a way as to encourage
walking and to reduce the number and length of automobile trips. Bicycle lanes
shall be provided along at least 70% of all collector streets.
      (6)   Enhanced design elements may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Increased open space and unique open space designs;
         (b)   Preservation of heritage trees and significant native tree
canopy;
         (c)   Establishment of habitat preservation measures and/or wildlife
sanctuary areas; and
         (d)   Use of native plants and pollinator gardens within the site.
      (7)   The project includes building types that delineate the streets and
civic/nonresidential areas to minimize the visibility of parking lots.
      (8)   Grading and clearing shall be minimized to the extent possible, and
the natural topography should be integrated into the site design and amenities.
      (9)   Any required stormwater facilities shall be used and integrated
into the development. When larger, stand-alone stormwater ponds and basins are
proposed, they shall be designed and constructed as amenities
DIVISION 6. OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT(S)
§ 460 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this division to provide for various zoning districts
which shall overlay the conventional and planned unit development zoning
districts enumerated in this article, and which shall provide for special
review of development within such overlay districts in accordance with the
intents, procedures and standards established for the overlay districts.
§ 461 HISTORIC DISTRICT ESTABLISHED; BOUNDARIES; PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Authority. The General Assembly has, in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9,
Part 4, Historic Preservation, permitted the town to establish, conserve and
preserve Historic Districts and landmarks.
   (B)   Intent. The Board of Commissioners finds that conservation and
preservation of Historic Districts and landmarks stabilize and increase
property values and strengthen the overall economy of the town. This division
is adopted to do the following:
      (1)   To safeguard the heritage of the town by preserving the historic
overlay district and any town landmarks that embody important elements of the
town’s culture, history and architectural history; and
      (2)   To promote the use and conservation of the historic overlay
district and/or landmark for the education, pleasure and enrichment of the
residents of the town, county and the state as a whole.
   (C)   Applicability. From and after January 1, 2007, no exterior
architectural features of any building or structure located in the historic
overlay district shall be altered, restored, erected or moved within the
district until a certificate of appropriateness is issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission, or under special circumstances, the Town Planner. For
the purpose of this section, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall include the architectural
style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or
other structure, including the kind and texture of the building material, the
size and scale of the building, and the type and style of all windows, doors,
light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant features. In the case of outdoor
advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall be construed to mean the style,
material, size and location of all the signs. The exterior features may, at the
discretion of the Historic Preservation Commission, include historic signs,
color and significant landscape, archaeological and natural features of the
area. All of the provisions of this section are applicable to the construction,
alteration, moving and demolition by the state, its political subdivisions,
agencies and instrumentalities, provided however that they shall not apply to
interiors of buildings or structures owned by the state. The state and its
agencies shall have a right of appeal to the State Historical Commission or any
successor agency assuming its responsibilities under G.S. § 121-12(a) from any
decision of the local commission. The decision of the State Historical
Commission shall be binding upon both the state and the Historic Preservation
Commission.
      (3)   The town and all public utility companies shall be required to
obtain a certificate of appropriateness prior to initiating work in a Historic
District for any changes in the character of street paving, sidewalks, trees,
utility installations, lighting, walls, fences, structures and buildings on
property, easements or streets owned or franchised by the town or public
utility companies.
§ 462 APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   See §
3302.1.
§ 463 REVIEW CRITERIA FOR CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   To provide reasonable standards to assist in the review of the
application for a certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall take
into account the following elements to ensure that they are consistent with the
historic or visual character or characteristics of the district:
      (1)   The height and width of the building in relation to the height and
width of adjacent, opposite and surrounding buildings;
      (2)   The setbacks and placement of the building in relation to the
setback of adjacent, opposite and surrounding buildings;
      (3)   Exterior construction materials, including textures, but not to
include color;
      (4)   Architectural detailing such as lintels, cornices, brick bond and
foundation materials;
      (5)   Roof shapes, forms and materials; fenestration;
      (6)   Proportions, shapes, positions and locations, patterns and sizes of
any elements of fenestration;
      (7)   General form and proportions of buildings and structures; and
      (8)   Appurtenant fixtures and other features such as lighting and
fencing.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intention of these regulations to ensure, as far as
possible, that buildings or structures shall be in harmony with other buildings
or structures located herein. It is not the intent of these regulations to
require the reconstruction or restoration of individual or original buildings.
§ 464 MINOR WORKS.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness application, when determined to
involve a minor work, may be reviewed and approved by the Town Planner
according to specific review criteria and guidelines.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, MINOR WORKS are defined as those
exterior changes that do not involve substantial alterations, additions or
removals that could impair the integrity of the property and/or the district as
a whole. The MINOR WORKS shall be limited to those listed in the Commission’s
rules of procedure.
   (C)   No application involving a minor work may be denied without the formal
action of the Commission.
§ 465 COMMISSION HAS NO JURISDICTION OVER THE INTERIOR OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) below, the Commission shall have
no jurisdiction over interior arrangement and shall take no action under this
section except to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, moving or demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant
features or outdoor advertising signs or other significant features in the
district of the landmark which would be incongruous with the special character
of the landmark or district.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the jurisdiction of the Commission
over interior space shall be limited to specific interior features of
architectural, artistic or historical significance in publicly owned landmarks
and of privately owned historic landmarks for which consent for interior review
has been given by the owner. The consent of any owner for interior review shall
bind future owners and/or successors in title, provided the consent has been
filed in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county and indexed
according to the name of the owner and the specific nature of the Commission’s
jurisdiction over the interior.
§ 466 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR PERMITTED.
   (A)   Certain changes not prohibited. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior
architectural feature of a historic landmark or in a Historic District which
does not involve a change in design, materials or outer appearance thereof, nor
to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration or
demolition of any feature which the building inspector or similar official
shall certify is required by the public safety because of an unsafe or
dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a property
owner from making any use of his or her property not prohibited by other
statutes, ordinances or regulations. Nothing in this ordinance shall be
construed to prevent the maintenance or, in the event of an emergency, the
immediate restoration of any existing above-ground utility structure without
approval by the Commission.
§ 467 DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS AND BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a designated landmark or a building, structure or
site within the district may not be denied except as provided in division (G)
below. However, the effective date of a certificate may be delayed for a period
of up to 365 days from the date of approval.
   (B)   The maximum period of delay authorized by this section shall be
reduced by the Commission where it finds that the owner would suffer extreme
hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return from the
property by virtue of the delay.
   (C)   During that period, the Commission shall negotiate with the owner and
with any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the building
or site.
   (D)   If the Commission finds that a building or site within the Historic
District has no special significance or value toward maintaining the character
of the district, it shall waive all or part of that period and authorize
earlier demolition or removal.
   (E)   If the Commission has voted to recommend designation of a property as
a landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation has
not been made by the Town Board of Commissioners, the demolition or destruction
of any building, site or structure located on the property of the proposed
landmark or in the proposed district may be delayed by the Commission for a
period of up to 365 days or until the Town Board of Commissioners takes final
action on the designation, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   The Town Board of Commissioners may enact an ordinance to prevent the
demolition by neglect of any designated landmark or any building or structure
within an established Historic District. The ordinance shall provide
appropriate safeguards to protect property owners from undue economic hardship.
   (G)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site or structure determined by the
State Historic Preservation Officer as having statewide significance, as
defined in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places, may be
denied except where the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme
hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue
of the denial.
DIVISION 7. OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 470 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The version of the official zoning map maintained in the offices of
the town shall be the final authority as to the status of the current zoning
district classification of land in the town’s planning jurisdiction and shall
only be amended in accordance with §§
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, or
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments.
   (B)   The official zoning map designates the location and boundaries of the
conventional, conditional district, overlay and planned unit development zoning
districts established in this ordinance.
   (C)   The official zoning map shall be maintained in a digital format and
paper copies shall be kept on file and are available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (D)   The Town Planner shall maintain paper or digital copies of superseded
versions of the official zoning map for historical reference, as appropriate.
   (E)   Copies of the official zoning map may be purchased from the town and
paper copies of the map that are certified by the Town Planner in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-79 shall be admissible in evidence and have the same force of
effect as the original map.
§ 471 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town’s official zoning map, as amended (hereinafter the “official
zoning map”), is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made part of this
ordinance.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall bear the adoption date (July 1, 2022) of
this ordinance and the signatures of the Town Planner and Town Clerk.
   (C)   The flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) prepared by FEMA and the
associated flood insurance study (FIS) are hereby incorporated by reference
herein and made part of this ordinance.
§ 472 DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries or districts as shown
on the official zoning map, the Board of Adjustment shall determine the
boundaries in accordance with the following standards.
   (A)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a utility line or a
street, alley, railroad or other public accessway shall be interpreted as
following the centerline of the right-of-way or easement for the utility line
or accessway.
   (B)   If a street, alley, railroad or utility easement forming the boundary
between two separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication,
the district boundaries shall be construed as following the centerline of the
abandoned or vacated roadbed or utility easement.
   (C)   (1)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a lot line shall be
interpreted as following the lot line as it existed when the boundary was
established.
      (2)   If a subsequent minor adjustment (such as from settlement of a
boundary dispute or overlap) results in the lot line moving ten feet or less,
the zoning boundary shall be interpreted as moving with the lot line.
   (D)   Boundaries shown as approximately following a river, stream, canal,
lake or other watercourse shall be interpreted as following the centerline of
the watercourse as it actually exists, and as moving with that centerline to
the extent the watercourse moves as a result of natural processes (flooding,
erosion, sedimentation and the like).
   (E)   Boundaries shown parallel to or as extensions of features indicated in
this section shall be interpreted as such.
   (F)   Boundaries shown as following the boundary of the town corporate
limits shall be interpreted as following the boundary of municipal
incorporation.
   (G)   If the specific location of a depicted boundary cannot be determined
from application of the above standards, it shall be determined by using the
official zoning map’s scale to determine the boundary’s distance from other
features shown on the map.
   (H)   Where the actual location of existing physical or natural features
varies from that shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
that are not covered by this section, the Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to determine the district boundaries.
   (I)   In the case of flood hazard overlay district boundaries, the FEMA work
maps, if available, shall be used for scaling.
   (J)   In cases where boundaries on the town’s official zoning map are based
on another official map promulgated by the state or other federal agency and
the other state or federal map is amended, the town’s maps shall automatically
be amended to remain consistent with the officially promulgated state or
federal map.
§ 473 REVISION.
   (A)   Changes made in zoning district boundaries on the official zoning map
shall be considered an amendment to this ordinance and are made in accordance
with §
3315, Rezoning/Map Amendment, or §
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments, as appropriate.
   (B)   Changes to the official zoning map approved by the Board of
Commissioners shall be entered on the official zoning map by the Town Planner
promptly after the approval.
   (C)   Where the ordinance enacting a zoning district boundary change
contains wording explaining or clarifying the location of the new boundary, the
Town Planner shall enter the boundary on the official zoning map in accordance
with the ordinance wording.
   (D)   Upon entering the most recently approved amendment on the official
zoning map, the Town Planner shall also change the date of the map to indicate
the date of its latest revision.
ARTICLE 5. USE REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. USES DISTINGUISHED
   This article contains all the standards related to the use of land in the
town’s planning jurisdiction and is organized by the three kinds of land uses:
principal, accessory or temporary use.
§ 510 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Principal uses are the primary, permanent use types proposed on a lot
(like a single-family home).
   (B)   Accessory uses are subordinate to the principal use located on the
same lot (like a detached garage serving a single-family home) and may be a
structure or an activity.
   (C)   Temporary uses are structures or activities allowed for a short
duration of time (like a portable storage container used for the purposes of
storing or moving a household’s belongings).
§ 511 USE TYPES.
   (A)   Use types are the specific individual principal uses included within a
particular use classification.
   (B)   Individual use types are defined in
Article 10, Division 3, Definitions.
§ 512 DEVELOPMENTS WITH MULTIPLE PRINCIPAL USES.
   Developments with multiple principal uses, such as shopping centers, shall
incorporate only those use types allowed in the applicable zoning district.
§ 513 PROCEDURE FOR CLASSIFICATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   (A)   In the event that a proposed principal or accessory use type is not
listed in §
527,
Table 8, Principal Uses, and such land use is not listed as a prohibited use,
or is not otherwise prohibited by law, the Town Planner shall determine whether
a materially similar use type exists in this ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Planner shall determine whether or not an unlisted use
is similar to an existing use type set out in
Table 8, Principal Uses, based on the definitions in this ordinance, and the
standards for unlisted uses in §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations.
      (2)   Nothing shall limit the Town Planner from seeking input from town
staff, the Development Review Committee, the Planning Board or the Board of
Commissioners in making a determination of how to categorize an unlisted use.
   (C)   Should the Town Planner determine that a materially similar land use
does exist, the regulations governing that land use shall apply to the unlisted
use type and the Town Planner’s determination shall be recorded in writing.
   (D)   In cases where a proposed unlisted use type is not found to be similar
to an existing use type, the Town Planner may, but shall not be required to,
initiate a text amendment application to revise the text of this ordinance to
add the use type in accordance with §
3320, Text Amendment.
DIVISION 2. PRINCIPAL USES
§ 520 GENERALLY.
   
Table 8, Principal Uses, lists the range of allowable principal uses, the
zoning districts where they are principal, and the procedure to be followed for
their establishment. The table also includes cross-references to any applicable
use-specific standards that may apply to a principal use.
§ 521 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   A “P” in a cell of the table indicates that the specific use type is
permitted by right in the corresponding zoning district, subject to compliance
with any additional use-specific standards referenced in the Principal Uses
Table, and any other applicable standards in this ordinance.
§ 522 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   An “S” in a cell of the table indicates that the specific use type is
permitted in the corresponding zoning district only upon approval of a special
use permit in accordance with §
3318, Special Use Permit, any additional use-specific standards referenced in
Table 8, Principal Uses, and any other applicable requirements of this
ordinance.
§ 523 USES REQUIRING REZONING TO A CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT.
   A “C” in a cell of a table indicates that the specific use type is permitted
in the corresponding zoning district only upon approval of a map amendment
(rezoning) to a conditional zoning district in accordance with §§
3316, Conditional District Map Amendments, and
440, Conditional Districts Established, any additional use specific standards
in
Table 8, Principal Uses, and any other applicable requirements of this
ordinance.
§ 524 ALLOWED IN A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   An “A” in a cell of the table indicates that the specific use type is
principal in a planned unit development district, provided the specific use
type is included in the list of potential use types in the master plan or terms
and conditions document. If a use is not listed, then it is not principal
within the planned development.
   (B)   Allowed uses are subject to any additional use-specific standards
referenced in the Principal Uses Table.
   (C)   If a use type is listed as not principal in a planned development
district in the table, it may not be included in a master plan or terms and
conditions statement.
§ 525 USES NOT PERMITTED.
   A “•” in a cell of the table indicates that the specific use type is not
permitted in the corresponding zoning district.
§ 526 USE STANDARDS.
   When a specific use type is permitted in a zoning district, there may be use
standards that are applicable. Such additional standards are referenced in the
table column titled “Use Standards.” These standards shall apply to a specific
use type regardless of the zoning district, unless otherwise specified.
§ 527 PRINCIPAL USES TABLE.
   The following table sets out the range of allowable principal uses by zoning
district.
Table 8 - Principal Uses
“P” = Permitted with a zoning compliance permit, subject to
applicable use standards
“S” = Permitted with a special use permit, subject to applicable use
standards
“A” = Allowed provided the use is listed in the PD terms and
conditions statement, subject to applicable use standards
“•” = Prohibited
[#] = Table Note
         Zoning Districts                           Use
Use Type RA R-20 R-15 R-9 R-9M OI NB CB HB LI I PUD Standards §
Table 8 - Principal Uses
“P” = Permitted with a zoning compliance permit, subject to applicable use
standards
“S” = Permitted with a special use permit, subject to applicable use standards
“A” = Allowed provided the use is listed in the PD terms and conditions
statement, subject to applicable use standards
“•” = Prohibited
[#] = Table Note
                        Zoning Districts                           Use
Use Type                RA R-20 R-15 R-9 R-9M OI NB CB HB LI I PUD Standards §

Agricultural Use Classification
Agricultural and        P  •  •  • •  ••••P  A   530(B)
horticulture
Agriculture support     P  •  •  • •  ••P  •P  A   530(C)
service
Agri-tourism            P  •  •  • •  •••••A   530(A)
Farmers market          P  •  •  • •  P  P  P  P  •A
Riding stable           P  S    •  • •  •P  P  ••A
Commercial Use Classification
Animal boarding or      S  •  •  • •  •S  S  P  •A
grooming
Automotive painting/    ••  •  • •  ••C  P  P  P A   533(A)
body shop
Automotive parts and    ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  P  P A   533(B)
accessory sales
Automotive repair and
servicing (without      ••  •  • •  •C  P  P  P  P A   533(C)
painting/ bodywork)
Automobile sales or     ••  •  • •  •C  P  P  P  A   533(D)
rentals
Automotive towing and   ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A   533(E)
storage lot
Bar, cocktail lounge or ••  •  • •  •S  S  P  •A   533(F)
private club
Bed and breakfast       S  S    S    P   P    P  ••••A   533(G)
Bottle shop (with on-   ••  •  • •  •S  S  P  •A   533(H)
premises consumption)
Bulky items sales       ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  P A
Business incubator      ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  P  P A   533(I)
Car wash or automobile  ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  A   533(J)
detailing
Catering establishment  S  •  •  • •  ••P  P  P  P A
Coffee shop/bakery      ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  •A   533(K)
Computer-relat ed       ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  P  A
service
Convenience store       ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  P  A   533(L)
Co-working space        ••  •  • S    P  P  P  P  P  A   533(M)
Electronic gaming       ••  •  • •  ••S  S  •• 533(N)
operation
Event venue             S  •  •  • •  •S  P  P  •A   533(O)
Financial service       ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  S  A   533(P)
Funeral-related service ••  •  • •  •••P  S  A
Game rooms (including
pool, billiards and     ••  •  • •  ••P  P  S  A   533(FF)
slot machines)
Hair, nails, skin-
related and tanning     S  •  •  • •  P  P  P  P  •A   533(Q)
services
Heavy equipment sales,  ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A   533(R)
rental and repair
Hotel or motel          ••  •  • •  ••P  P  •A
Indoor commercial       ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  •A   533(S)
recreation
Microbrewery or         ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  A   533(T)
microdistillery
Office, medical         ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  •A
Office, professional    ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  P  A   533(U)
Outdoor commercial      S  •  •  • •  •••P  S  S A
recreation
Outdoor shooting range  S  •  •  • •  •••••• 533(V)
Outdoor storage (as a   S  •  •  • •  ••C  C  S  P A   533(W)
principal use)
Packaging and printing  ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  P  P A   533(X)
service
Parking lot (as a       ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  P  P A
principal use)
Pharmacy                ••  •  • •  P  P  P  P  S  A   5304(Y)
Repair shop             ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  P  P A
Restaurant, indoor/     ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  P  A
outdoor seating
Restaurant with drive-
through/d rive-up       ••  •  • •  ••P  P  S  A
service
Retail use              ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  S  A   533(Z)
Self service storage    ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  P A   533(AA)
Sexually oriented       ••  •  • •  ••••C  C • 533(BB)
business
Spa, day or medical     ••  •  • •  P  •P  P  •• 533(CC)
Tattoo and piercing     ••  •  • •  ••S  S  •• 533(DD)
establishment
Theater                 ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  •A
Veterinary clinic       ••  •  • •  ••S  O  •A   533(EE)
Industrial Use Classification
Asphalt or concrete     ••  •  • •  •••••S • 534(A)
plant
Contractor services/    ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A
yard
Electrical or plumbing  ••  •  • •  ••••P  P •
fabrication
Extractive industry     ••  •  • •  •••••C • 534(B)
Flex space              ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  P A   534(C)
Food production         P  •  •  • •  •••••P A
(industrial scale)
Fuel oil/bottled gas    ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A
distributor
General industrial      ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A
services
H.V.A.C. contractor     ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P  P A
Makerspace              ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  P  P A   534(D)
Manufacturing, heavy    ••  •  • •  •••••P A   534(E)
Manufacturing, light    ••  •  • •  •••P  P  A   534(E)
Metal fabrication and   P  •  •  • •  •••S  P  P A
welding
Public convenience      ••  •  • •  •S  •P  P  P A
center/transfer station
Recycling center        ••  •  • •  ••••P  P A
Salvage or junk yard    ••  •  • •  •••••P • 534(F)
Slaughterhouse , meat   ••  •  • •  •••••C
packing
Solar energy, major     S  •  •  • •  ••••C  C • 534(G)
Truck or freight        ••  •  • •  •••P  P  P A
terminal
Warehouse               ••  •  • •  •C  S  P  P  P A
Wholesale sales         ••  •  • •  •P  P  P  P  P A
Institutional Use Classification
Antenna collocation,    P  P    P    P   P    P  P  •P  P  P A   532(F)
major
Antenna collocation,    P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P  P A   532(F)
minor
Broadcasting tower,     C  •  •  • •  C  ••P  P  P A
radio or television
Cemetery, columbarium   P  •  S    P   P    P  P  P  P  •A   532(B)
or mausoleum
Civic, fraternal and    P  •  S    P   P    P  P  P  ••A
social organizations
College or university   P  •  •  • •  S  •P     •A
Community center        S  S    S    P   P    P  ••P  •A
Cultural facility,      P  •  •  S   •  P  S  P  P  •A
library or museum
Daycare, adult          S  S    S    S   S    P  •P  P  •A   532(C)
Daycare, child          S  S    S    S   S    P  P  P  P  P  A   532(D)
Elementary or secondary P  •  S    P   P    P  P  P  P  •A
school
Golf course, public     P  •  •  • •  P  ••P  •A
Governmental use (other
than public safety      S  •  •  • •  P  P  P  P  P  P A
facility or utility
facility)
Healthcare use          ••  •  • •  P  •P  P  •A
Outdoor recreation,     P  •  S    S   P    P  ••P  •A
public [3]
Park or playground      P  •  S    P   P    P  ••P  •A
Public safety facility  P  P    P    P   P    P  ••P  P  P A
Small wireless facility P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P  P A   532(F)
Telecommunic ations     S  •  •  • •  ••C  P  P  P • 532(F)
tower, major
Telecommunic ations
tower, minor (or        P  •  •  • S    P  P  P  P  P  P A   532(F)
concealed)
Utility, major          S  S    S    S   S    S  ••P  P  P A   532(G)
Utility, minor          P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P  P A   532(G)
Residential Use Classification
Assisted living         S  •  •  S   S    P  ••••A   531(A)
facility
Dormitory               S  •  •  • P    S  •••••
Duplex dwelling         ••  •  P   •  P  S  •••A
Family care home        P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  ••A   531(B)
Group home              S  S    S    S   S    S  ••••A   531(C)
Manufactured dwelling,  S  T    T    T   T    T  T  T  T  T  T • 531(D)
Class A (double-wide)
Manufactured dwelling,  S  T    T    T   T    T  T  T  T  T  T • 531(D)
Class B (single-wide)
Manufactured dwelling,  T  T    T    T   T    T  T  T  T  T  T • 531(D)
Class C
Manufactured home park  S  •  •  • •  •••C  •• 531(E)
Multi-family dwelling   ••  •  • P    P  C  S  ••A
Nursing home            S  •  •  • •  P  •P  P  •A   531(F)
Single-family detached  P  P    P    P   •  ••S  ••A
dwelling [1]
Townhouse               ••  •  • P    ••P  P  •A
Notes:
[1] Includes modular homes
[2] Only permitted on upper stories of nonresidential buildings
[3] Includes outdoor recreation facilities operated by a HOA, management
company or developer that are intended to serve only the residents within a
particular development and their guests
 
DIVISION 3. USE STANDARDS
§ 530 AGRICULTURAL USES.
   (A)   Agri-tourism. Agri-tourism shall be subject to the district
dimensional requirements where located and shall require approval of a site
plan in accordance with §
3317, Site Plan. Nothing shall limit the sale of concessions or products grown
on-site as part of an agri-tourism use.
   (B)   Agriculture and horticulture.
      (1)   Agriculture and horticulture uses (structures and activities)
taking place outside of a bona fide farm use shall be located at least 50 feet
from any lot line shared with a residential zoning district and at least 100
feet from any existing residence on an adjacent lot.
      (2)   This use does not include poultry houses and large-scale hog
operations.
   (C)   Agriculture support service. Such uses shall be limited to a maximum
of 6,500 gross square feet of floor area in the CB District.
§ 531 RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Assisted living facility. Such uses shall not be primarily for the
treatment of contagious diseases, mental illness or addiction.
   (B)   Family care home.
      (1)   Family care homes shall comply with the standards in G.S. § 160D-
907.
      (2)   A lot containing a family care home shall not be located within
one-half mile (2,640 feet) of another lot containing a family care home or a
group home.
   (C)   Group home. A group home shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   A lot containing a group home shall not be located within one-half
mile (2,640 feet) of another lot containing a family care home or another group
home.
      (2)   The use shall be operated in a manner that is compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood and shall not be detrimental to adjacent lands as a
result of traffic, noise, refuse, parking, loitering or other activities.
      (3)   The number of occupants in a group home shall be limited to the
maximum number that may be accommodated while at the same time complying with
all applicable town regulations and state requirements.
      (4)   The use shall maintain a residential appearance compatible with its
surroundings when proposed in a residential or mixed use district.
      (5)   The use shall meet all state requirements as well as all applicable
Housing and Building Code requirements.
   (D)   Manufactured dwelling. A manufactured dwelling shall comply with G.S.
§ 1600-910 and the following standards.
      (1)   All Class A, B or C manufactured homes, regardless of availability
of public utilities, shall have a minimum lot size of one acre.
      (2)   Class A manufactured homes shall have a minimum 80-foot-wide front
yard width and shall front on, and the front door shall be parallel to the
roadway and/or the access road.
      (3)   It shall be occupied only as a single-family dwelling.
      (4)   It shall be configured in accordance with the setup and
installation standards established by the State Commissioner of Insurance and
the most current version of the State Regulations for Manufactured Homes.
      (5)   It shall maintain a minimum width of 16 feet.
      (6)   It shall be oriented with the longest axis parallel to the lot
frontage, to the maximum extent practicable.
      (7)   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles and transporting lights shall
be removed.
      (8)   Except for manufactured homes on leased property, manufactured
homes shall include a continuous, permanent masonry foundation or masonry
curtain wall of solid brick or brick veneer, installed under the perimeter and
unpierced except for required ventilation and access.
      (9)   It shall include stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and
other means of entrance and exit that are installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the State Building Code. They shall be
attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to the ground.
      (10)   It shall maintain exterior siding comparable in composition,
appearance and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard
residential construction, which consists of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Vinyl or aluminum lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed
that of flat white paint);
         (b)   Cedar or other wood siding;
         (c)   Stucco siding; or
         (d)   Brick or stone siding.
      (11)   It shall maintain a roof pitch with a minimum vertical rise of
three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run.
      (12)   It shall include a roof finished with a Class C or better roofing
material that is commonly used in standard residential construction.
      (13)   It shall provide an eave projection of no less than six inches,
which may include a gutter.
      (14)   In no instance shall a manufactured home be used solely for the
purposes of storage.
   (E)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   Utility requirements. All manufactured home parks shall conform to
the following utility requirements.
         (a)   An accessible, adequate, safe supply of water shall be provided
in each residential-manufactured home park. When a municipal water supply is
not available, a community water supply shall be developed and its supply used
exclusively in accordance with the standards of all applicable state, county
and town agencies.
         (b)   Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall be provided
in all residential-manufactured home parks. Collection systems and sewage
treatment plants shall comply with the standards of all applicable state,
county and town agencies. Individual septic tank systems can be considered, if
soil, topography and groundwater conditions are favorable and such systems are
approved by the appropriate state, county and local agencies.
         (c)   To protect the public health and monitor on-site wastewater
systems, an environmental health authorization to relocate a manufactured/
mobile home on a vacated or about to be vacated manufactured/mobile home space
served by a septic tank within a manufactured home park is required. This
authorization will be needed prior to issuing a building permit. The
environmental authorization requirement is part of the laws and rules governing
the operation of septic systems under provisions of 15A NCAC 18E Wastewater
Treatment and Dispersal Systems, or G.S. § 130A-337(c). Once a relocation
application is received at the environmental health office, a member of the
staff will make a visit to the lot in question to determine if the septic
system appears to be in operating order. If the septic system appears to be
functioning properly, then an authorization to relocate a manufactured home on
that lot will be issued. At that point, the owner of the manufactured home can
secure a building permit.
         (d)   All utilities, including piping, phone, electricity and cable,
shall be underground.
      (2)   Streets and parking. All manufactured home parks shall conform to
the following street and parking requirements.
         (a)   All streets in a manufactured home park shall meet the road
construction standards as set forth in the latest edition of the NCDOT
subdivision roads minimum construction standards.
         (b)   Maintenance of such streets shall be provided by the owner or
operator of the park.
         (c)   Permanent dead-end streets or culs-de-sac shall not exceed the
maximum permitted in
Table 19 or 750 feet in length, whichever is less, and shall be provided with a
turnaround of at least 100 feet in diameter.
         (d)   New street names or manufactured home park names shall not
duplicate, or be similar to, existing street names or manufactured home park
names in the town.
         (e)   The developer shall be required to provide and erect street name
signs to state standards at all intersections within the manufactured home
park.
         (f)   Sidewalks or a paved pedestrian walkway shall be provided along
all streets within the manufactured home park.
         (g)   A minimum of two off-street automobile parking spaces surfaced
with an all-weather surface such as concrete, asphalt or crushed stone shall be
provided adjacent to each manufactured home space but shall not be located
within any public right-of-way or within any accessway in the park.
         (h)   All spaces within a manufactured home park shall be serially
numbered for mailing address purposes. These numbers shall be displayed in the
front of the manufactured home on the driveway side with four-inch lettering.
         (i)   All streets in the manufactured home park shall be adequately
illuminated in accordance with §
631, Streetlights.
      (3)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be located on at least one side of each street
within the manufactured home park.
         (b)   Sidewalks meeting the standards of §
732, Sidewalks, shall be five feet in width, located fronting arterial,
collector, local and private streets.
      (4)   Residential-manufactured home park use/appearance requirements. All
uses within a manufactured home park shall conform to the following
regulations.
         (a)   Abandoned vehicle. No junked or abandoned vehicles shall be
allowed.
         (b)   Additions.
            1.   No living compartment or structure other than a “Florida-type”
room, or other prefabricated structure specifically designed for manufactured
home use or extension, shall be added to any manufactured home.
            2.   Porches covered with a roof and open on three sides may be
permitted if the yard space requirements of this article are not violated.
         (c)   Administrative office. An administrative office may be permitted
in accordance with the State Building Code.
         (d)   Building proportion. The main portion of the building, when
viewed from the front lot line, shall have a building length not exceeding six
times the building width.
         (e)   Dwelling configuration. All manufactured homes shall comply with
the standards for individual manufactured dwellings in §
531(D), Manufactured Dwelling.
         (f)   Evacuation plan.
            1.   Each manufactured home park in the flood damage prevention
area shall have an evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and
escape routes.
            2.   All manufactured homes to be placed in floodprone areas shall
be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by providing
over-the-top ties at each of the four corners of the manufactured home with two
additional ties per side at intermediate locations.
         (g)   Mailboxes. When more than five rural mailboxes are used for mail
delivery, the approval of the local Post Office Department and the State
Department of Transportation shall be required.
         (h)   Project identification sign. Park identification signs shall
comply with the standards for a monument sign in accordance with §
685, Signs in Residential Districts.
      (5)   Solid waste. The residential-manufactured home park management
shall be responsible for the proper storage, collection and disposal of solid
waste in accordance with §
690, Collection of Solid Waste and Recyclables.
      (6)   Resident requirements. All residential-manufactured home park
residents must be required to comply with an established set of requirements
through contracts, restrictive covenants or other valid means. Failure to
enforce such restrictions subjects the property to revocation of the
manufacturing home park zoning.
      (7)   Landscape requirements.
         (a)   All manufactured home parks shall be landscaped in accordance
with §
650, Landscaping.
         (b)   A landscaped buffer strip shall be provided at all exterior
property lines and shall consist of an approved wall, fence or a Type A
separation buffer (see
Figure 54) with the addition of canopy trees, spaced not more than 50 feet
apart. The standards of §
650, Landscaping, regarding planting and the health of installed plants shall
be met.
      (8)   Conformance with residential-manufactured home park standards.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or engage in
the construction of any manufactured home park or make any addition or
alteration to an existing manufactured home park within the town’s planning
jurisdiction unless a final plan of the manufactured home park has been
approved in accordance with this section.
         (b)   No new manufactured home park or manufactured home park addition
shall be occupied until the Town Planner has issued a zoning compliance
certificate and a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the County
Inspections Department.
         (c)   The owners, management or occupants to whom a construction
permit for a manufactured home park is issued shall operate the park in
compliance with this section and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain
the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition.
         (d)   1.   The Town Planner may, after due notice and subject to the
right to appeal to the Board of Adjustment per §
3301, Appeals, suspend or revoke the zoning compliance certificate for failure
to maintain the park in compliance with the provisions of this section.
            2.   The County Inspections Department may, after due notice,
subject to the right of appeal, suspend or revoke the certificate of occupancy
for failure to maintain the park in compliance with the provisions of this
section.
         (e)   1.   The zoning compliance certificate and/or certificate of
occupancy may be revoked for a specific section of a manufactured home park
which is in violation and occupancy allowed to continue in portions of the park
which are in conformity with the zoning compliance certificate and certificate
of occupancy.
            2.   The Town Planner and the County Inspections and Environmental
Health Departments may conduct as many inspections of manufactured home parks
as are deemed necessary to ensure the compliance of applicable standards.
      (9)   Certificate of occupancy and compliance.
         (a)   The Town Planner shall issue a zoning compliance certificate per
§§
3303, Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate, and/or
3323, Zoning Compliance Certificate, prior to the issuance of a County
Inspections Department certificate of occupancy and compliance.
         (b)   A certificate of occupancy must be authorized and issued by the
Inspections Department prior to occupancy of a manufactured home park.
Construction must conform to the approved plan.
         (c)   A certificate of occupancy may be issued if all required work,
other than the completion of the foundation skirting, is completed, provided
that a zoning compliance certificate of completion is issued by the Town
Planner within 90 days of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
         (d)   If no certificate of completion is issued within 90 days, the
certificate of occupancy shall be void.
   (F)   Nursing home.
      (1)   Such uses shall not be primarily for the treatment of contagious
diseases, mental illness or addiction.
      (2)   Nursing homes in the NB District shall be limited to a maximum of
18 patients.
§ 532 INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   (A)   Cemetery, columbarium. Columbariums are permitted accessory uses of
churches.
   (B)   Church. All buildings shall be set back at least 20 feet from any lot
line.
   (C)   Daycare, adult. Such uses shall be limited to a maximum of 12 adults
in the CB District.
   (D)   Daycare, child.
      (1)   Such uses shall be limited to a maximum of 2,500 gross square feet
in the NB District and a maximum of 5,000 gross square feet in the CB District.
      (2)   Daycare uses taking place within a private dwelling are treated as
an accessory use (see Division 4).
   (E)   Healthcare use. Medical clinics, outpatient treatment facilities and
urgent care uses shall be limited to a maximum of 12,500 gross square feet in
the NB and CB Districts.
   (F)   Telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. This section establishes general standards for
the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities that will provide for the
public health, safety and welfare. The standards are intended to ensure that
residents, businesses and public safety operations in the town’s planning
jurisdiction have reliable access to wireless communications services. More
specifically, the provisions of this section are intended to:
         (a)   Ensure adequate protection of residential areas and uses from
potential adverse impacts of wireless communications facilities, and to
generally encourage the location of these facilities in areas where adverse
impact on the community is minimal;
         (b)   Encourage the placement of wireless telecommunications
facilities in nonresidential areas;
         (c)   Minimize the number of new major telecommunications towers
generally;
         (d)   Create conditions where wireless telecommunications service
providers are able to provide wireless telecommunications services effectively
and efficiently in accordance with state and federal law;
         (e)   Strongly encourage the joint use or collocation of new and
existing wireless telecommunications facilities so as to minimize the number of
new telecommunications towers throughout the town;
         (f)   Establish collocation and concealed towers as the preferred
options for the accommodation of wireless telecommunications equipment; and
         (g)   Ensure that wireless telecommunications facilities located
within the public right-of-way do not obstruct sight distance triangles or
create safety hazards for pedestrians or bicyclists.
      (2)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all
wireless telecommunications facilities except for the following, which are
exempted from these standards but remain subject to all other applicable
standards in this ordinance:
         (a)   Removal of antennas, antenna support structures or wireless
telecommunications equipment on an existing telecommunications tower, utility
pole, vertical projection or equipment compound that does not result in a
substantial modification;
         (b)   The operation of a small wireless facility solely within the
interior of a structure, stadium or athletic facility;
         (c)   Routine maintenance on an existing wireless telecommunications
facility;
         (d)   Installation, modification or operation of a micro-wireless
facility, receive-only television antenna or receive-only radio antenna for
noncommercial use;
         (e)   Installation, modification or operation of FCC-licensed amateur
(“ham”) radio equipment; and
         (f)   Dish antenna or earth stations.
      (3)   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant. The
town may hire any consultant and/or expert necessary to assist the town in
reviewing and evaluating an application for a wireless telecommunications
facility, including the construction and modification of the site, in
accordance with these standards.
         (a)   Upon filing an application, an applicant shall deposit with the
town funds sufficient to reimburse the town for all reasonable costs of
consultant and expert evaluation and consultation to the town in connection
with the review of any application, including the construction and modification
of the site, once permitted.
         (b)   The initial deposit shall be in the amount set forth in the
adopted fee schedule and shall be paid at the time the application is
submitted. The town will maintain a separate escrow account for all such funds.
         (c)   The town consultants/experts shall invoice the town for its
services in reviewing the application, including the construction and
modification of the site, once permitted.
         (d)   If at any time during the process this escrow account has a
balance less than an amount set forth in the adopted fee schedule, the
applicant shall immediately, upon notification by the town, replenish the
escrow account so that it maintains the minimum required balance. Any
additional escrow funds shall be deposited with the town before any further
action or consideration is taken on the application.
         (e)   In the event that the amount held in escrow by the town is more
than the amount of the actual invoicing at the conclusion of the project, the
remaining balance shall be promptly refunded to the applicant.
      (4)   Wireless telecommunications facilities distinguished. The following
use types and configurations are considered to be wireless telecommunications
facilities subject to these requirements:
         (a)   New and replacement major telecommunications towers of 50 feet
in height or taller;
         (b)   New and replacement minor telecommunications towers of up to 50
feet in height;
         (c)   Stealth or concealed telecommunications towers, antennae or
wireless telecommunications equipment;
         (d)   Major collocations of antennae and associated equipment on
existing towers, buildings or other vertical projections;
         (e)   Minor collocations of antennae and associated equipment on
existing towers, buildings or other vertical projections; and
         (f)   The installation of small wireless telecommunications facilities
on land outside a public street right-of-way.
      (5)   General standards applicable to all types of wireless
telecommunications facilities. The following requirements shall apply to all
new wireless telecommunications facilities and any modifications to an existing
wireless telecommunications facility that exceeds the scope of routine
maintenance, as defined in this section.
         (a)   Building permit required. Prior to installation or modification
exceeding the scope of routine maintenance, all wireless telecommunications
facilities shall receive a building permit in accordance with the requirements
in this ordinance.
         (b)   Compliance with federal and state regulations. All wireless
telecommunication facilities shall comply with or exceed current standards and
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and any other agency of the federal government
that regulates telecommunications facilities. In addition to federal
requirements, all wireless telecommunications facilities shall comply with or
exceed current standards and regulations of the state pertaining to wireless
telecommunications facilities in G.S. §§ 160D-930 through 160D-934.
         (c)   Interference. No wireless communication facility shall disturb,
diminish or interfere with public safety, radio, television or other wireless
telecommunications signals in accordance with FCC requirements.
         (d)   Structurally sound. All elements of a wireless
telecommunications facility shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the town,
that the equipment and the structure supporting the equipment is structurally
sound and can accommodate the proposed equipment and appurtenances.
         (e)   Sight distance at intersections. All elements of a wireless
telecommunications facility shall be located outside of, and shall in no way
obstruct, required sight distance triangles. This requirement shall apply to
existing streets as well as to future street intersections that have been
designed or where the right-of-way is currently being protected by the town or
the state.
         (f)   Accessory equipment. Accessory equipment, including any
buildings, cabinets or shelters, shall be used only for the purposes of housing
wireless telecommunications equipment and other supplies in direct support of
the operation of the wireless telecommunications facility. Any equipment or
materials not used in direct support of such operation shall not be stored on
the site.
         (g)   Obstruction lighting. Lighting of a wireless telecommunications
facility shall be limited to that required for compliance with FAA minimum
standards. Any lighting required by the FAA must be of the minimum intensity
and number of flashes per minute (i.e., the longest duration between flashes)
allowable by the FAA. Nighttime strobing or flashing lights are prohibited,
unless required by the FAA.
         (h)   Signage. Signage shall be limited to safety or informational
signage identifying the party responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the facility and any additional security or safety signs, as necessary, in the
opinion of the Town Planner.
         (i)   Unauthorized access prohibited. Telecommunications towers and
vertical projections with wireless telecommunications equipment with a height
of 30 feet above grade or more shall be designed or configured to prevent
unauthorized persons from climbing on the wireless telecommunications facility
whether through use of walls or fencing with a minimum height of six feet above
adjacent grade, or anti-climbing devices.
         (j)   Nonconforming wireless telecommunications facilities.
            1.   Lawfully established wireless telecommunications facilities in
operation prior to June 7, 2021, that do not comply with these standards may
remain and operate as nonconforming uses.
            2.   Ordinary and routine maintenance may be performed on a
nonconforming wireless telecommunications facility.
            3.   Minor collocation of antennae, antenna-support structures and
related wireless telecommunications equipment is allowed, provided that the
overall height of the existing nonconforming wireless telecommunications
facility remains unchanged or is reduced.
            4.   In no instance shall a collocation resulting in an increased
overall height or requiring substantial modification, as defined in this
section and G.S. § 160D-932, be permitted on a nonconforming wireless
telecommunications facility.
            5.   In the event a nonconforming telecommunications tower is
removed, it shall not be replaced with another nonconforming wireless
telecommunications tower.
         (k)   Cessation.
            1.   A wireless telecommunications facility shall be considered to
have ceased operation if the town receives written notice from a wireless
services provider that it intends to cease operations at a particular wireless
telecommunications facility, or a wireless telecommunications facility ceases
to transmit a wireless telecommunications signal for a period of 30 consecutive
days or longer.
            2.   Upon receipt of a written notice from a wireless services
provider or upon determination that a wireless communication facility has
ceased operation, the town shall forward written documentation of the cessation
to the wireless services provider, or the owner of the land, if different.
         (l)   Abandonment.
            1.   The wireless telecommunications facility shall be deemed
abandoned if wireless telecommunications signals do not resume for a period of
180 consecutive days or longer from the date the written documentation of
cessation is filed.
            2.   Upon making a determination that a wireless telecommunications
facility has been abandoned, the town shall forward written documentation of
the abandonment to the wireless services provider, or the owner of the land, if
different.
         (m)   Removal.
            1.   The town may require the wireless services provider or the
owner of the land, if different, to remove an abandoned wireless
telecommunications facility within 30 days of the date it is deemed abandoned.
            2.   Should the wireless services provider, or the owner of the
land, if different, fail to remove the abandoned telecommunications facility
within 30 days of the date that notice of abandonment is filed, the town may
cause the wireless telecommunications facility to be removed and may recover
the actual cost of such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the
wireless services provider, or the owner of the land, if different.
      (6)   Standards for specific types of wireless telecommunication
facilities.
         (a)   Collocations distinguished. All collocations shall be classified
as either a major collocation or a minor collocation in accordance with
Article 10, and the following.
            1.   A major collocation includes placement of antennas, antenna-
support structures and related wireless telecommunications equipment on any of
the following: a building’s roof; a building’s wall; a vertical projection such
as a water tank, electric transmission tower or similar vertical projection not
constructed for the sole purpose of providing wireless telecommunications
services; or an existing or replacement telecommunications tower where the
collocation requires a substantial modification, as defined in § 
1030 and G.S. § 160D-931.
            2.   A minor collocation includes placement of antennas, antenna-
support structures and related wireless telecommunications equipment on an
existing or replacement telecommunications tower, provided no substantial
modification, as defined in these standards and G.S. § 160D-931, is required. A
minor collocation may also be referred to as an “eligible facility,” as defined
in these standards and G.S. § 160D-931.
            3.   In addition to the placement of antennas and antenna-support
structures, collocations may also include the placement of wireless
telecommunications equipment on a telecommunications tower, on a vertical
projection, on the ground in close proximity to a telecommunications tower or
vertical project, within an equipment compound, within an equipment cabinet,
within a building or on a building’s roof. Nothing shall prohibit the
replacement of an existing telecommunications tower or activities that increase
the overall height of an existing telecommunications tower in order to
accommodate a proposed collocation.
            4.   Substantial modification: Collocations on an existing or
replacement telecommunications tower that require or result in any of the
following shall be considered a substantial modification:
               a.   Increasing the existing overall height of the
telecommunications tower by the greater of 20 feet or more than 10%;
               b.   Adding an appurtenance (excluding cabling supports) to the
body of an existing telecommunications tower that protrudes horizontally from
the edge of the tower by the greater of: more than the width of the
telecommunications tower at the height of the appurtenance; or more than 20
feet from the edge of the tower; or
               c.   Increasing the square footage of an existing equipment
compound by more than 2,500 square feet.
               Substantial modifications that require an increase in the
overall height of an existing telecommunications tower or require a replacement
tower that exceeds the height of the existing telecommunications tower by more
than 40 feet shall require review as a new telecommunications tower.
            5.   Maximum height: Antennae, antenna-support structures or other
wireless telecommunications equipment, associated with a major collocation on a
building wall or roof shall not project more than ten feet above the highest
point of the building’s roof or parapet wall.
            6.   Method of attachment: Antennae, antenna-support structures or
other wireless telecommunications equipment, associated with a collocation
shall be mechanically fastened to the building, roof, vertical projection or
telecommunications tower in a manner that minimizes the potential for
structural failure or endangerment of the public from falling wireless
telecommunications equipment. The Town Planner shall require an applicant for a
collocation to furnish evidence from a professional engineer licensed in the
state that the proposed collocation meets the applicable state and local
Building and Fire Code requirements.
            7.   Appearance when concealed: When a collocation is proposed on a
concealed telecommunications tower, the collocation shall be configured in the
manner necessary to ensure the tower’s concealment is not compromised or
negatively impacted.
            8.   Setbacks: In cases where an existing telecommunications
tower’s height is increased or where an existing telecommunications tower is
replaced in order to accommodate a collocation, the existing or replacement
tower shall be set back at least one foot from the front, side and rear lot
lines for each foot of overall wireless telecommunications facility height, to
the maximum extent practicable. Accessory structures, including equipment
cabinets, guy wire anchors and other ground-based equipment, shall conform with
the applicable dimensional requirements for the zoning district where located.
         (b)   Telecommunications tower, major. A new or replacement
telecommunications tower with a height of 50 feet or more above grade is a
major telecommunications tower subject to these standards. A new or replacement
telecommunications tower with a height less than 50 feet above grade shall be
considered a minor telecommunications tower.
            1.   Setbacks: Towers and their associated antennas shall be set
back at least one foot from the front, side and rear lot lines for each foot of
overall wireless telecommunications facility height. In cases where an existing
telecommunications tower’s height is increased, or where an existing
telecommunications tower is replaced in order to accommodate a major or minor
collocation, the existing or replacement tower shall comply with the setback
requirements to the maximum extent practicable.
            2.   Maximum height: The maximum height (including antenna and
other appurtenances) for any new, replaced or collocated wireless
telecommunications tower is 200 feet, as measured from the adjacent pre-
construction grade to the top of the highest appurtenance on the tower. In no
instance shall the collocation of an eligible facility or a collocation that
constitutes a substantial modification result in a telecommunications tower
with a height that exceeds 200 feet above the adjacent pre-construction grade.
In cases where a telecommunications tower is mounted to or on top of a
building, the overall height of the building and the attached tower shall not
exceed 200 feet from the adjacent preconstruction grade. The adjacent pre-
construction grade shall be the grade at the base of the building closest to
the tower.
            3.   Collocation required: Telecommunications towers shall be
designed to accommodate the present and future needs of the owner as well as
the collocation of additional equipment, in accordance with the following
standards:
               a.   Towers of 50 to 80 feet in height shall be configured to
accommodate the collocation of at least two wireless telecommunications service
provider’s equipment;
               b.   Towers of 81 to 130 feet in height shall be configured to
accommodate the collocation of at least three wireless telecommunications
service provider’s equipment; and
               c.   Towers of 131 feet in height or higher shall be configured
to accommodate the collocation of at least four wireless telecommunications
service provider’s equipment.
         (c)   Telecommunications tower, minor. A concealed telecommunications
tower is a telecommunications tower and associated equipment that is designed
to appear as something other than a traditional wireless communications
facility. These are sometimes called “stealth” towers. A minor wireless
telecommunications tower is a use that is designed to appear as a traditional
wireless communications facility except that the maximum height of the tower
portion of the facility is less than 30 feet above grade.
            1.   Appearance of a concealed telecommunications tower: A
concealed telecommunications tower shall be configured to conceal the presence
of the tower, antennas, antenna-support structures and related wireless
telecommunications equipment in order to obscure its purpose as a wireless
telecommunications facility, to the maximum extent practicable. Allowable
configurations include, but are not limited to: bell towers; clock towers;
water towers; silos; chimneys; steeples; light poles; flag poles; or evergreen
trees. Antennae, antenna-support structures, cabling and related appurtenances
shall be enclosed, camouflaged, screened or otherwise obscured so that they are
not readily identifiable as wireless telecommunications equipment to the casual
observer.
            2.   Setbacks: Concealed and minor telecommunications towers and
associated accessory structures, including equipment cabinets, shall comply
with the applicable dimensional requirements for nonresidential uses in the
zoning district where located. In no instance shall a concealed or minor
telecommunications tower be exempted from the minimum applicable setback
requirements for nonresidential uses. In cases where an existing concealed
telecommunications tower’s height is increased, or where an existing concealed
telecommunications tower is replaced in order to accommodate a major or minor
collocation, the existing or replacement concealed telecommunications tower
shall comply with the setback requirements above to the maximum extent
practicable.
            3.   Maximum height: The maximum height for any concealed wireless
telecommunications tower is 200 feet, as measured from the adjacent pre-
construction grade to the top of the highest appurtenance on the tower. In no
instance shall a collocation of an eligible facility or work associated with a
substantial modification result in a concealed telecommunications tower with a
height that exceeds 200 feet above the adjacent pre-construction grade. The
maximum height for a minor telecommunications tower is less than 50 feet from
the adjacent pre-construction grade to the top of the highest appurtenance on
the tower.
            4.   Collocation: Concealed and minor telecommunications towers are
encouraged (but not required) to accommodate the collocation of other antennae.
               a.   Collocations of equipment on a minor telecommunications
tower (whether a major or minor collocation) shall not increase the overall
height of the tower by more than ten feet beyond the initially approved height
of the minor telecommunications tower. Actions that result in an increase in
tower height by more than ten feet shall require the minor telecommunications
tower to undergo review as a major telecommunications tower.
               b.   Any collocated equipment on a concealed telecommunications
tower must maintain the appearance of the facility as a concealed
telecommunications tower. In no instance shall a concealed telecommunications
tower be replaced with a telecommunications tower that is not concealed in
order to accommodate a collocation.
         (d)   Wireless communications facilities, small. An applicant may file
a single consolidated application for up to 25 separate small wireless
facilities at one time, but the town may choose to issue separate decisions on
one or more of the facilities included within a consolidated application.
            1.   Located within public right-of-way: In cases where a small
wireless facility is proposed within a public right-of-way, the small wireless
facility shall comply with all standards applicable to the right-of-way.
            2.   Timeframe for review: Applications for establishment of a
small wireless facility shall be processed and decided within 45 days from the
date the application is determined to be complete. Nothing shall prohibit the
town and the applicant from mutually agreeing to a longer review period.
            3.   Timing for operation: Construction of a small wireless
facility shall commence within six months of its approval and the small
wireless facility shall be activated for use within one year from the permit
issuance date, unless delayed by a lack of commercial power at the site.
            4.   Maximum equipment size: In no instance shall a small wireless
facility exceed the following maximum size limitations; a small wireless
facility that exceeds these maximum size limitations shall be reviewed in
accordance with the standards for a collocation.
               a.   Each antenna, and any exposed elements, shall be capable of
fitting within an enclosure of six cubic feet, or less.
               b.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small
wireless facility shall maintain a maximum cumulative volume of 28 cubic feet,
or less.
               The following types of ancillary equipment are not included in
the calculation of equipment volume: electric meters; concealment elements;
telecommunications demarcation boxes; grounding equipment; power transfer
switches; cut-off switches; vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services; or the support structure.
            5.   a.   Maximum height: No new structure intended to support a
small wireless facility shall be taller than 50 feet above the adjacent pre-
construction grade. An existing structure (such as a utility pole, light
standard, sign and the like) may be replaced in order to accommodate a small
wireless facility, but the replacement structure shall not exceed the height of
the original structure being replaced. In no instance shall the antennae or
equipment associated with a small wireless facility project more than ten feet
above the height of the structure the small wireless facility is mounted on.
               b.   In cases where a new structure installed to serve a small
wireless facility exceeds 50 feet in height, the structure shall be reviewed
and decided in accordance with the standards for a telecommunications tower. In
cases where a replacement structure intended to serve a small wireless facility
exceeds the height of the original structure, the replacement structure shall
be reviewed and decided in accordance with the standards for a collocation.
            6.   Placement: A small wireless facility, including the support
structure and all other equipment, shall not obstruct the safe passage of
vehicles, pedestrians or bicycles.
            7.   Method of attachment: Antennae, antenna-support structures or
other wireless communications equipment associated with a small wireless
facility shall be mechanically fastened to the supporting structure in a manner
that minimizes the potential for structural failure or endangerment of the
public from falling wireless telecommunications equipment. The Town Planner
shall require an applicant for a small wireless facility to furnish evidence
from a professional engineer licensed in the state that the proposed wireless
telecommunications facility meets the applicable state and local Building and
Fire Code requirements.
            8.   Appearance: The portion of a small wireless facility attached
to the support structure shall match the color of the support structure, to the
maximum extent practicable. In cases where an applicant proposes inclusion of a
small wireless facility on a decorative support structure, sign or other
existing structure not constructed solely for the purposes of providing
wireless telecommunications services, the town may require the small wireless
facility to be configured or concealed to ensure compatibility with the
structure.
            9.   Electrical service: In cases where a small wireless facility
is proposed in areas where electrical service is underground, all electrical
service to the small wireless facility shall also be underground.
   (G)   Utilities, major and minor.
      (1)   All utilities shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   Where possible, utilities should be located on lots interior to
a development rather than on lots abutting streets.
         (b)   All dangerous apparatus shall be enclosed by a fence or wall at
least eight feet in height.
         (c)   Major utilities may only be located on lots that meet the
dimensional requirements for the zoning district where located. Minor utilities
may be on lots, leaseholds or easements that do not meet the minimum
dimensional standards for lots in the district where located.
         (d)   The design of buildings, structures and facilities located in
residential neighborhoods shall conform as closely as possible to the character
of development in the area to ensure compatibility. Utility placement and
screening may also be used as a means of ensuring compatibility.
         (e)   No vehicles, trailers or materials shall be stored outdoors on
the premises.
         (f)   Portions of properties not used for facilities, off-street
parking or related services shall be maintained with natural ground cover.
         (g)   Service and storage yards shall not be permitted within utility
facilities located in residential or OI Districts.
      (2)   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall be
considered as minor utilities and shall also comply with the following
additional standards.
         (a)   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers may only be
located on a lot of one acre in area when located in a residential or OI
District.
         (b)   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall
include non-climbable fences or comparable safety devises to limit
accessibility by the general public.
         (c)   Ground-based electrical substations and transformers shall
include a durable masonry wall, fence, hedge or other natural planting of
comparable opacity shall be provided along the exterior lot lines abutting a
lot in a residential or OI District.
         (d)   Walls, fences or hedges required in this section shall be
between five and seven feet in height measured from the ground along the lot
line.
         (e)   Plantings shall maintain an initial height of at least three
feet at time of planting and shall achieve an average height of six feet within
two years of the time of planting.
      (3)   Communications or relay towers associated with a utility use type
shall comply with the following additional standards.
         (a)   Communications or relay towers associated with a utility use
type may only be located on a lot of one acre in area when located in a
residential or OI District.
         (b)   The minimum distance from the base of any tower to the nearest
property line shall be equal to the height of the tower.
§ 533 COMMERCIAL USES.
   (A)   Automotive painting/body shop. These uses shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Buildings shall be limited to a gross floor area of up to 2,000
square feet within the NB and CB Districts.
      (2)   No more than eight vehicles may be stored outside overnight only in
the HB or I Districts.
      (3)   Any vehicles or materials stored overnight shall be located within
a designated storage area.
      (4)   All storage areas shall be enclosed by a fully opaque fence or wall
with a minimum height of six feet.
   (B)   Automotive parts and accessory sales. These uses are limited to a
maximum of 6,500 square feet of floor area per lot.
   (C)   Automobile repair and servicing (without painting/bodywork). These
uses shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Buildings shall be limited to a gross floor area of up to 2,000
square feet within the NB and CB Districts.
      (2)   No more than eight vehicles may be stored outside overnight only in
the HB and I Districts.
      (3)   Any vehicles or materials stored overnight shall be located within
a designated storage area.
      (4)   All storage areas shall be enclosed by a fully opaque fence or wall
with a minimum height of six feet.
   (D)   Automobile sales or rentals. Uses primarily involving the sale or
rental of automobiles, trucks or recreational vehicles shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Vehicle display areas shall be surfaced with concrete, asphalt or
other permanent surfacing material other than crushed stone.
      (2)   No vehicles or other similar items shall be displayed on the top of
a building.
      (3)   All lights and lighting shall be designed and arranged so no source
of light is directly visible from any abutting residential property.
      (4)   Repair and service functions are permitted as an accessory use
provided all repair-related activities take place within an enclosed building.
   (E)   Automotive towing and storage lot. Automotive towing and storage lot
uses shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   A maximum of no more than 50 vehicles at any one time shall be
stored on the property.
      (2)   All towed vehicles must be stored in an approved vehicle towing and
storage area.
      (3)   The minimum size of the fenced storage area shall be 3,000 square
feet.
      (4)   An opaque chain-link fence (with slats) or chain-link fence
supplemented with evergreen vegetation, of a minimum height necessary to fully
screen all vehicles stored on the site, shall be provided around all accessible
sides of the storage area.
      (5)   All entrances to and from the storage area shall be secured and
locked whenever an employee is not present on the property.
      (6)   The storage area shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to
minimize dust emissions and the buildup of dirt, mud and other debris.
      (7)   All lighting shall be shielded in accordance with §
630, Outdoor Lighting Standards, so as not to cast direct light upon any
adjacent residential lot.
      (8)   No storage area shall be permitted within 100 feet of any
residentially-zoned property or within any required front yard.
      (9)   All buildings used to protect stored motor vehicles shall be
located on the same lot.
   (F)   Bar, cocktail lounge or private club. A bar, cocktail lounge or
private club shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Such uses shall be separated from a church or school use type by at
least 200 feet measured from lot line to lot line.
      (2)   The use shall not orient the primary entrance toward an abutting
lot in a residential district.
      (3)   The use shall have a six-foot-high opaque fence or masonry wall
along all lot lines abutting a residential district.
      (4)   Outdoor seating (including, but not limited to, seating for dining
or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of
the building) shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The outdoor seating area shall be located no closer than 100
feet from any single-family residential zoning district;
         (b)   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use; and
         (c)   Any applicable NCDOT requirements.
   (G)   Bed and breakfast. A bed and breakfast shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Be owner-occupied or have a manager who resides on the premises;
      (2)   Have no more than six sleeping rooms;
      (3)   Have only one kitchen;
      (4)   Limit meals served on the premises to overnight guests only; and
      (5)   Limit any signage to ground signage with a maximum sign face area
of six square feet.
   (H)   Bottle shop. A bottle shop use shall comply with the standards for a
bar, cocktail lounge or private club.
   (I)   Business incubator.
      (1)   A business incubator may be provided as a permitted use in its own
building, as a tenant in a multi-tenant building or as an accessory use to an
existing office, personal service or industrial use.
      (2)   When proposed as an accessory use to an existing business or
development, the floor area devoted to the business incubator shall not exceed
25% of the building’s gross floor area.
      (3)   Business incubators shall meet the off-street parking requirement
for this use type in the table of minimum off-street parking requirements (see
§
670, Off-Street Parking and Loading), not the individual types of uses within
the business incubator.
      (4)   Floor area within a building serving as a business incubator may be
used for storage, but no outdoor activity or storage is permitted.
   (J)   Car wash or automobile detailing. Such use types are limited to a
maximum of four individual bays or up to 2,500 square feet detail service area.
   (K)   Coffee shop/bakery. Coffee shops, bakeries and other specialty eating
establishments shall be limited to a maximum gross floor area of 3,500 square
feet in the NB District and 4,000 square feet in the CB District. Outdoor
seating area shall not be included within the maximum allowable gross floor
area.
   (L)   Convenience store.
      (1)   In the NB District, such uses are limited to a maximum gross floor
area of 3,500 square feet and a maximum of six fuel pumps.
      (2)   In the CB District, such uses are limited to a maximum gross floor
area of 5,000 square feet and a maximum of six fuel pumps.
   (M)   Co-working space.
      (1)   Use types and activities associated with a co-working space shall
be limited to the range of activities typically associated with office uses.
      (2)   Food or beverages produced or sold within the use shall be limited
to patrons of co-working space and not the general public.
      (3)   Delivery of personal services within the co-working space
(manicure, massage, education, exercise classes, childcare and the like) shall
be limited to patrons of the co-working space.
      (4)   Facilities for pets shall be indoors or fully screened from
adjacent streets and other uses.
   (N)   Electronic gaming operations. The Town Board of Commissioners takes no
permission on the legality of electronic gaming operations. Illegal land uses
may not be permitted by this UDO. If electronic gaming operations are permitted
by statute or by the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, then they
shall comply with this subsection (N).
      (1)   Prior to the operation of an electronic gaming operation, a zoning
permit license for an electronic gaming operation must be issued. In addition,
an annual gaming machine fee in the amount of $500 per gaming machine or device
as established in the town’s adopted fee schedule shall be paid.
      (2)   Electronic gaming operations shall be regulated as to location in
the following manner in addition to any other requirements of this article:
         (a)   Electronic gaming operations shall be located a minimum of 1,000
feet measured in any direction, from:
            1.   A place of worship or other religious institution;
            2.   A daycare center, public or private school;
            3.   A public or private park, playground, public library or
cemetery;
            4.   A skating rink, video arcade or motion picture theater which
shows G- or PG-rated movies to the general public on a regular basis;
            5.   Electronic gaming operations, tattoo or body piercing
establishments;
            6.   Adult and sexually oriented businesses; or
            7.   A residential zoned/residential used parcel.
         (b)   Applicants shall submit a current straight line drawing prepared
within 30 days prior to the application by a registered surveyor, depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any of the above uses and the
straight-line measurements to each. Straight line distance shall be measured
from the property line of the existing or established use to the building of
the proposed electronic gaming operation. A use in subsection (N)(3) above
shall be considered to be existing or established if it is in place or actively
under construction at the time the application is submitted. Residential zoning
districts shall be based upon the most current official zoning map.
         (c)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. through 11:00
p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 8:00 a.m. through 12:00 a.m. Fridays and
Saturdays.
         (d)   No minor (17 years of age or younger) shall be allowed to
operate a gaming machine subject to this article.
         (e)   All electronic gaming operations shall comply with requirements
of G.S. Chapter 14, Article 37.
         (f)   The maximum number of gaming machines for any electronic gaming
operation business is eight, and the minimum building square footage shall be
at least 200 square feet per machine.
         (g)   Electronic gaming operations must be visible and open to the
store front of the building or structure. Shading or tinting of store front
windows shall not exceed 35%.
         (h)   Consciously and purposely hiding machines/terminals/computers,
using switching devices to change screens in order to hide the true purpose and
use of a computer, or any other ploy to hide the intended use of any computer
within the establishment shall be considered as perpetrating a fraud upon the
town and shall result in the immediate permanent revocation of the
establishment’s zoning compliance certificate and shall result in a penalty
equal to 100% of the fee that is due, in addition to the fee itself.
         (i)   There shall be an adult manager, 18 years of age or older, on
the premises during the hours of operation.
         (j)   Each applicant for zoning compliance as required by this article
shall be upon a form approved by the Town Board and shall be filed with the
Town Clerk. Each applicant shall certify, under oath, the following
information:
            1.   The name, age and residence of all interested parties;
            2.   The address of the premises where the business shall be
located;
            3.   The proposed hours of operation of the business;
            4.   The dimensions of land owned or controlled by the applicant as
premises for the electronic gaming operation;
            5.   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or any adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant; and
            6.   A statement of any prior revocations of a license of any
interested party to operate an electronic gaming operation or similar business
in any jurisdiction.
         (k)   The applicant shall provide the serial number of each and every
computer in the establishment. The Town Clerk or Town Planner will issue a town
decal, including the serial number, town terminal number and date of issuance,
to be displayed visibly on the computer or gaming terminal at all times. The
town terminal number will be assigned by the Town Planner. The serial numbers
of computers or gaming terminals placed into service after the zoning
compliance certificate is granted (and the additional license fees) shall be
provided to the Town Clerk or Town Planner prior to any use of the machine.
            1.   Computers that are removed from the establishment shall be
reported, with the serial number, to the Town Clerk or Town Planner; any
replacement computer shall be reported, with the serial numbers of the original
and replacement machines, to the Town Planner. New computers or gaming
terminals must be issued a town decal prior to operation.
            2.   Alteration or modification of any town-issued decal shall be
considered a zoning violation and subject to civil penalties per
Article 9, Enforcement.
         (l)   No interested party shall operate an electronic gaming operation
unless the party shall have first applied for and received the zoning
compliance certificate provided for by the town. It shall be unlawful to
operate an electronic gaming operation within the town without a zoning permit
as required by this section and the town.
         (m)   Electronic gaming operations that are operating at the time of
the adoption of this section shall apply for a zoning compliance certificate
within 30 days of July 1, 2022. Any such establishment denied a certificate
shall cease operations of machines within three days of notice of such denial
by the Town Clerk or Town Planner.
         (n)   A change of any facts stated in an application filed under this
article shall be reported immediately to the Town Clerk and Town Planner.
Failure to report any change of the facts stated in the application shall be
subject to civil penalties as outlined in §
940, Civil Penalties.
         (o)   A zoning compliance certificate issued pursuant to this article
shall become void if the licensee moves or ceases to operate at the location
required to be stated in the application for the license.
         (p)   Off-street parking requirements shall be as follows:
            1.   One parking space per machine;
            2.   One parking space per employee; and
            3.   Two State Department of Insurance designed handicap parking
spaces per first 25 parking spaces and one for every 25 parking spaces
thereafter.
         (q)   There shall be no alcohol sales or alcohol consumption on the
premises of an electronic gaming operation.
   (O)   Event venue. Event venues shall be operated in accordance with the
following standards:
      (1)   Outdoor activity areas shall be set back from lot lines shared with
a residential use by an amount at least twice the minimum rear setback for the
district where the use is located.
      (2)   The maximum number of guests shall be in accordance with the
maximum occupancy of the principal structure in accordance with the State
Building Code.
      (3)   Outdoor activities shall not take place between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (4)   Exterior lighting shall not project into adjoining residential
lots. Use of stadium-style or other pole-mounted lighting is prohibited.
Lighting of accessible paths may be provided, if necessary.
      (5)   In cases where off-site parking is employed, the event venue shall
maintain an agreement with the owner of land where vehicles are parked.
      (6)   The venue shall ensure guests may access the venue safely from off-
site parking areas.
      (7)   In no instance shall vehicles be parked along streets in ways that
block driveways, sight triangles or emergency access.
      (8)   The event venue shall provide sufficient on-site trash receptacles
and shall ensure that windblown trash or other debris does not accumulate
anywhere on the site.
      (9)   Event venue uses shall demarcate the boundaries of the event venue
site for guests and shall include fences, walls or other techniques, such as
landscaping, to ensure guests do not inadvertently trespass on adjacent lots.
      (10)   Event venues shall ensure adequate ingress and egress from all
buildings and structures to accommodate emergencies.
   (P)   Financial service. Financial service uses shall comply with the
following standards:
      (1)   Such uses shall be limited to a maximum gross floor area of 4,000
square feet in the NB and CB Districts; and
      (2)   Uses with accessory features like automated teller machines and
drive-throughs shall comply with the applicable accessory use standards in
Division 4 of this article.
   (Q)   Hair, nails and skin-related service. Such uses shall be limited to a
maximum of 500 square feet of floor area in the NB District and up to 2,000
square feet in the CB District.
   (R)   Heavy equipment and tool rental. Uses primarily involving the sales,
rental, service or storage of heavy equipment shall comply with the following
standards.
      (1)   No heavy equipment or building displays shall be located within a
required setback or perimeter buffer.
      (2)   No heavy equipment shall be displayed on the top of a building.
      (3)   All lights and lighting shall be designed and arranged so no source
of light is directly visible from any residential district or existing
residential use.
   (S)   Indoor commercial recreation. Such uses are limited to a maximum of
6,000 gross square feet in the NB District and a maximum of 12,500 gross square
feet in the CB District.
   (T)   Microbrewery or microdistillery. Such uses shall comply with the
standards for a bar, cocktail lounge or private club.
   (U)   Office, professional. Such uses shall be limited to a maximum of 3,500
gross square feet in the NB District and a maximum of 25,000 square feet in the
CB District.
   (V)   Outdoor shooting range. Outdoor shooting ranges may be permitted
subject to the requirements of the district and provided that:
      (1)   Outdoor shooting ranges shall be located on a site or parcel with
an area of at least ten acres;
      (2)   No part of a shooting range shall be located within 100 feet of any
property line and less than 1,000 feet from any residential dwelling or school,
as measured from the firing line in the direction of the line of fire;
      (3)   Shooting range facilities shall be constructed, at a minimum, to
include the following protective barriers:
         (a)   Backstops with a minimum height of 20 feet;
         (b)   Side berms or walls with a minimum height of eight feet;
         (c)   Firing line covers of overhead safety baffles for rifle fire
only;
         (d)   The range shall be enclosed by a six-foot chain-link fence with
a lockable gate at the entrance; and
         (e)   “No trespassing - danger - shooting range” signs shall be posted
along range fence lines every 150 feet.
      (4)   Weapon types are restricted to pistol, rifle or shotgun;
      (5)   The use of explosives or any target that detonates is prohibited;
      (6)   At least one qualified individual in the sponsoring club or
organization shall be certified for shooting range supervision. Each facility
shall adopt safety rules and regulations as determined by the sponsoring club
or organization;
      (7)   No individuals under the age of 18 are permitted on the range
during any practice or qualification of firearms unless such individual is
participating in an organized and properly supervised event being conducted on-
site by law enforcement personnel; and
      (8)   The operators of the shooting range shall provide proof of accident
and liability insurance coverage. A minimum coverage of $1,000,000 per
individual and $2,000,000 in the aggregate shall be maintained.
   (W)   Outdoor storage (as a principal use). The following standards shall
apply to all outdoor storage areas.
      (1)   The extent of the outdoor storage area shall be clearly delineated
on an application for establishment of the use.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the minimum setback
standards applicable in the zoning district where the outdoor storage area is
located.
      (3)   Outdoor storage areas are prohibited between the development’s
principal structure(s) and an arterial or collector street.
      (4)   No outdoor storage area shall be located within a required
perimeter landscaping buffer.
      (5)   Flammable liquids or gas containers in excess of 1,000 gallons
shall be stored underground.
      (6)   No materials shall be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
      (7)   No materials shall be stored on any potable or non-potable water
easement, stormwater easement or sanitary sewer easement.
      (8)   All areas of outdoor storage shall be surrounded by an opaque fence
or wall of a minimum height sufficient to conceal the material stored within
from off-site views. In the event the fence or wall is located within a
required setback, the fence or wall shall not exceed the maximum height for
fences or walls specified in
Article 6, Division 4, Fences and Walls. Nothing shall limit the height of a
screening fence or wall if it is located 20 feet or more from the edge of a
required setback.
      (9)   In no instance shall materials, equipment or other items located
within a storage area be visible above the fence or wall surrounding them.
      (10)   In no instance shall a manufactured or mobile home be used for the
purposes of storage.
   (X)   Packaging and printing service. Such uses shall be limited to a
maximum of 2,000 gross square feet in the NB District and a maximum of 5,000
square feet in the CB District.
   (Y)   Pharmacy. Pharmacies shall comply with the following standards. Such
uses shall be limited to a maximum gross floor area of 6,500 square feet in the
CB and OI Districts. Uses with accessory features like a drive-through shall
comply with the applicable accessory use standards in Division 4 of this
article.
   (Z)   Retail use.
      (1)   Except for grocery stores, no individual retail use shall occupy
more than 3,500 gross square feet in the NB District or more than 12,500 gross
square feet in the CB District.
      (2)   Thrift stores, flea markets and pawn shops shall be limited to a
maximum gross floor area of 6,500 square feet in the NB and CB Districts.
      (3)   Nothing shall limit the establishment of a shopping center or other
use that includes more than one retail establishment, but in no instance shall
a lot or site include more than 100,000 gross square feet of retail uses on any
single lot or site.
      (4)   A grocery store shall have a maximum gross floor area of 15,000
square feet in the CB District and 5,000 square feet in the NB District.
   (AA)   Self-service storage. Self-service storage facilities shall comply
with the following standards.
      (1)   The use shall be located on a lot or site of at least two acres in
area.
      (2)   No more than 50% of the total site may be occupied by buildings.
      (3)   External-access only storage buildings shall not exceed 20 feet or
one story in height.
      (4)   No activity other than storage shall take place within a storage
unit.
      (5)   Storage of hazardous, toxic or explosive substances shall be
prohibited.
   (BB)   Sexually oriented/adult business.
      (1)   Authority and jurisdiction. The provisions of this article are
adopted by the Board of Commissioners under authority granted by the General
Assembly in G.S. §§ 14-202.10 et seq. This article shall apply to every
building, lot, tract or parcel of land within the planning jurisdiction of the
town.
      (2)   Purpose. For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the citizenry of the town, this article is adopted by
the Board of Commissioners to regulate adult and sexually oriented businesses
located in the town. Further, the regulations of this article have been made
with reasonable consideration, among other things, as to the character of the
town and its areas and their peculiar suitability for these businesses.
      (3)   Abrogation. The regulations of this article shall not repeal,
impair, abrogate or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed
restrictions, setback requirements, rules, definitions or regulations
previously adopted pursuant to law in any established zoning district in the
town. However, where these regulations impose greater restrictions, the
provisions of these regulations shall govern.
      (4)   Massage of private parts prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to massage or offer to massage the private parts of another for hire in
the town. For the purpose of this division (BB)(4), the term MASSAGE is defined
as meaning the manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping, by hand or mechanical device, and the term PRIVATE PARTS
is defined as meaning the penis, scrotum, mans, veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to licensed medical
practitioners, osteopaths or chiropractors, or persons operating at their
direction, in connection with the practice of medicine, chiropractic or
osteopathy.
      (5)   Scope and provisions of this section.
         (a)   Sexually oriented/adult businesses. No sexually oriented/adult
business shall be permitted in any building located within 1,000 feet in any
direction from:
            1.   A building used as a dwelling;
            2.   A building in which an adult business or a sexually oriented
business is located;
            3.   A building used as a church, synagogue or other house of
worship;
            4.   A building used as a public school or as a state-licensed
daycare center; and
            5.   Any lot or parcel on which a public playground, public
swimming pool or public park is located.
         (b)   Applicants shall submit a current straight line drawing prepared
with the application made by a registered state surveyor, depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any of the above uses and the
straight line measurements to each.
         (c)   Straight line distance shall be measured from the property line
of the existing or established use to the building of the proposed electronic
gaming operation. Residential zoning districts shall be based upon the most
current official zoning map.
      (6)   Nonconforming adult businesses and sexually oriented adult
businesses.
         (a)   Any adult business or sexually oriented business lawfully
operating on the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, that is in violation of this article, shall be deemed a nonconforming
use.
         (b)   Any use which is determined to be nonconforming by application
of the provisions of this section shall be permitted to continue for a period
not to exceed two years. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased,
enlarged, extended or altered.
   (CC)   Spa, day or medical. Such uses shall be limited to a maximum of
12,500 gross square feet of floor area in the OI and CB Districts.
   (DD)   Tattoo and piercing establishment.
      (1)   Such uses shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   The use(s) shall be located no less than 100 feet from any
church, school, daycare or residence measured in a straight line from property
line to property line.
         (b)   Hours of operation are limited to 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
         (c)   The business operations, including tattooing and piercing, shall
not be visible from any rights-of-way.
         (d)   The definitions of TATTOO and BODY PIERCING found in G.S. §§ 14-
400 and 130A-283.
      (2)   All county health ordinances and state statutes regarding tattooing
and body piercing shall be followed.
   (EE)   Veterinary clinic. Such uses are limited to a maximum of 12,000 gross
square feet of floor area.
   (FF)   Game rooms, pool and billiard establishments, pinball machines and
arcades.
      (2)   Number of machines or devices. More than three machines, devices or
tables of any kind comprise a principal use. The maximum number of machines,
devices and tables is 20.
      (3)   Hours of operation are limited to 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
      (4)   Separation from churches, schools and residences. Shall be 100 feet
measured in a straight line from property line to property line.
§ 534 INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Asphalt or concrete plant. An asphalt or concrete plant shall comply
with the following standards.
      (1)   An asphalt plant shall be located at least 50 feet from any lot
line.
      (2)   A security fence, a minimum of six feet in height, shall be
provided around the use.
      (3)   Within one year of the cessation of the use, all equipment and
stockpiles incidental to the operation shall be dismantled and removed by and
at the expense of the landowner.
      (4)   The site shall be drained to prevent the accumulation of standing
water, and channelization of the drainage shall be designed and controlled so
as not to cause erosion or silting of neighboring properties or public ways,
nor to appreciably increase the turbidity of any natural water course, or to
occlude any existing drainage course, except in an instance where redevelopment
for another permitted use is in progress.
      (5)   Vehicular access shall be constructed with an all-weather surface
and be maintained in a dust-free condition.
      (6)   Access drives shall be located no closer than 15 feet from a lot
line.
      (7)   A plan shall be submitted showing truck routes to and from the
site. Such routes shall be designed to minimize impacts on residential areas,
schools or other uses negatively affected by truck traffic.
   (B)   Extractive industry. Quarries and other extractive industries shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   The minimum development area shall be five acres.
      (2)   The use shall not require the use of residential neighborhood
streets to gain ingress or egress.
      (3)   Where the final slope of areas being excavated will exceed 30%,
such areas shall be enclosed with a fence at least eight feet high located not
less than ten feet from the excavation’s edge.
      (4)   Excavated areas, stockpiles, waste storage piles and associated
processing, storage and loading areas shall be fully screened from view from
principal arterials, collector streets and lots in residential zoning
districts.
      (5)   No blasting operations shall be conducted during the hours from 6:
00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., and when conducted, shall not cause unreasonable amounts
of noise, vibration, dust or flying debris on nearby lots.
      (6)   No operations shall impede the normal flow of any stream or
watercourse, silt up or pollute any stream, undermine any public road or bridge
or promote flooding on adjacent land.
      (7)   Upon discontinuance of operations, all buildings and equipment
shall be removed, and excavated areas shall be rehabilitated in accordance with
a rehabilitation plan included as part of the application to establish the use.
      (8)   The rehabilitation plan shall identify the ways the site will be
returned as closely as possible to its original condition or a condition
suitable for a specified alternate use. The rehabilitation plan shall address
the storage and protection of topsoil removed during the course of operations
as well as regrading, re-fertilization and replanting.
      (9)   The estimated cost of carrying out the rehabilitation plan shall be
filed with the application. The estimate shall be certified as approximately
correct by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state with
expertise in rehabilitation.
      (10)   A rehabilitation guarantee, payable to the town, shall be required
in an amount equal to the estimated cost of carrying out the rehabilitation
plan.
      (11)   The rehabilitation guarantee shall be maintained as a legally
binding obligation until such time as the Board of Commissioners determines
that all rehabilitation work has been satisfactorily completed.
      (12)   If the Board of Commissioners finds that extractive uses have been
discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive calendar months and that no major
attempts have been made to implement the rehabilitation plan, it shall order
forfeiture of the guarantee and the proceeds shall be used to carry out, to the
extent possible, the rehabilitation plan.
   (C)   Flex space. Flex space use shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Flex space uses shall meet the off-street parking requirement for
this use type in the Table of Minimum Off-Street Parking Spaces Required (see §
670, Off-Street Parking and Loading), not the individual types of uses within
the flex space.
      (2)   The following activities shall not be included within a flex space
use type:
         (a)   Residential dwellings;
         (b)   Churches;
         (c)   Sexually oriented/adult businesses;
         (d)   Restaurants; and
         (e)   Cocktail lounges or private clubs.
      (3)   Outdoor storage or business-related activity is permitted as an
accessory use, subject to all applicable standards in this ordinance.
   (D)   Makerspace. Makerspace uses shall be configured in accordance with the
following standards.
      (1)   No outdoor storage or activity shall be permitted.
      (2)   The use shall include adequate ventilation and equipment for the
dispersal of vapors, dust or airborne contaminates created within the
structure.
      (3)   The use shall include a fire suppression system as required by the
Fire Marshal.
      (4)   No operation between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (5)   Incidental sale of products created on-site is permitted.
   (E)   Manufacturing, light. All light manufacturing uses shall comply with
the following standards.
      (1)   Buffer and setback areas in the side and rear may not be used for
parking.
      (2)   Finished products for display and sale shall not occupy more than
40% of the land area between the principal building and all adjacent streets.
   (F)   Salvage or junk yard. Junk yards, including junked automobile storage,
shall be subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Junk yards shall be located at least 200 linear feet, as measured
from the required perimeter screening, from any lot in a residential zoning
district.
      (2)   An opaque screen eight feet in height shall be required around all
boundaries.
      (3)   Any planted opaque screen shall be at least four feet in height
when planted.
      (4)   No required front or side yard shall be used for storage purposes.
   (G)   Solar energy, major. Major solar energy uses shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Setbacks. Solar farms and their appurtenant components shall
conform to the principal building setbacks of the underlying zoning district in
which they are located.
      (2)   Height requirements. Individual modules/panels shall be a maximum
of 20 feet in height as measured from the grade at the base of the structure to
the apex of the structure.
      (3)   Site plan. A site plan, drawn and stamped by a state-licensed
surveyor or engineer, shall be submitted showing the following:
         (a)   The location and dimensions of all proposed areas for the
placement of solar panels, screening/fencing and related improvements;
         (b)   Any preexisting structures on the same lot and principal
structures on other properties that would affect the placement of solar panels;
         (c)   Parking and access areas;
         (d)   Location of any proposed solar access easements;
         (e)   Location where wiring is brought together for inter-connection
to system components and/or the local utility power grid, and location of
disconnect switch;
         (f)   Any proposed new structures; and
         (g)   Any other relevant elements as requested by the Board of
Adjustment.
      (4)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan drawn at the same sale as the site
plan showing existing and proposed trees, shrubs, ground cover, buffers and all
other landscape materials as required by §
650, Landscaping.
      (5)   Emergency plan. An emergency plan showing how possible spills,
explosions and the like would be handled and access for emergency vehicles and
an evacuation plan if required.
      (6)   Avigation plan. The following is a list of the minimum requirements
for the avigation plan:
         (a)   A map analysis showing a radius of five nautical miles from the
center of the major solar energy facility within any airport operations within
the five-mile radius highlighted;
         (b)   For consideration of potential impacts to low altitude military
flight paths, notification of intent to construct shall be sent to the State
Commanders Council at least 30 days before the rezoning public hearing;
         (c)   The latest version of the solar glare hazard analysis tool
(SGHAT, see http://sandia.gov/glare) shall be used per its user’s manual to
evaluate solar glare aviation hazard. The full report for each flight path and
observation point as well as the contact information for the Town Planner shall
be sent to the authority listed below at least 30 days before the rezoning
public hearing. Proof of delivery notification and date of delivery will be
submitted with the rezoning application:
            1.   Airport operations at airports in the National Plan of
Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS) within five nautical miles of the center of
the major solar energy facility: provide required information to the Federal
Aviation Administration’s (FAA) Airport District Office (ADO) (as of May 2022,
this is the Memphis ADO) with oversight of the state; or
            2.   Airport operations at airports not in the NPIAS, including
military airports, within five nautical miles of the center of the major solar
energy facility: provide required information to the State Commanders Council
(MAIL: Commanding General; ATTN: Community Plans and Liaison (State Commanders
Council); Marine Corps Installations East (MCIESAT); PSC Box 20005; Camp
Lejeune, N.C. 28542) for military airports and to the management of the airport
for other airports.
         (d)   Any applicable design changes to the major solar energy facility
(such as module tilt, module reflectivity and the like) after initial submittal
shall be rerun in the SGHAT (See http://sandia.gov/glare) tool and the new full
report shall be sent without delay to the Town Planner and the parties listed
in subsection (G)(6)(c)1. and (G)(6)(c)2. above.
      (7)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Development of a farm will be subject to other overlay district
regulations if applicable.
         (b)   Solar farms shall be fully screened from adjoining properties
and adjacent roads by a Type A separation as required by §
650(K), Landscaping.
         (c)   All outdoor lighting shall be shielded following the
requirements of §
630, Outdoor Lighting Standards, to direct light and glare onto the system’s
premises and may be of sufficient intensity to ensure security.
         (d)   Any electrical wiring used in the system shall be underground
(trenched) except where wiring is brought together for inter-connection to
system components and/or the local utility power grid.
         (e)   Solar panels shall be mounted onto a pole, rack or suitable
foundation, in accordance with manufacturer specifications, in order to ensure
the safe operation and stability of the system. The mounting structure (fixed
or tracking capable) shall be comprised of materials approved by the
manufacturer, which are able to fully support the system components and
withstand adverse weather conditions. Only the attachment of the pole, rack or
suitable foundation at the ground contact shall be counted towards impervious
calculations.
         (f)   Multiple mounting structures shall be spaced apart at the
distance recommended by the manufacturer to ensure safety and maximum
efficiency.
         (g)   No ground-mounted large solar energy systems shall be affixed to
a block wall or fence.
         (h)   With the exception of the manufacturer’s or installer’s
identification, appropriate warning signs, and owner identification sign, all
other signs shall be prohibited. Not more than one manufacturer label bonded to
or painted upon the solar energy system shall be permitted.
         (i)   It is the responsibility of the owner to remove all obsolete or
unused systems within 12 months of cessation of operations. See the
decommissioning plan below.
         (j)   The Town Planner shall be provided copies of any lease
agreement, solar access easement and plan for removal of system/equipment. If
the system is to be interconnected to the local utility power grid, a copy of
the conditional approval from the local utility must also be provided before a
special use permit will be granted.
         (k)   The major solar energy facility and components shall meet all
requirements of the State Building Code.
         (l)   The farm and components shall comply with the current edition of
the National Electrical Code, UL listed, and be designed with an anti-
reflective coating.
         (m)   The electrical disconnect switch shall be clearly identified and
unobstructed and shall be noted clearly on the site plan.
         (n)   The owner or future owner of a property onto which a solar farm
is installed assumes all risk associated with diminished performance of said
system caused by any present or future adjacent structure or landscaping that
may interfere with the system’s ability to produce power at its rated capacity,
regardless of when that adjacent structure or landscaping is constructed or
installed.
         (o)   Inverter noise shall not exceed 40 dBA, measured at the property
line. Maximum permitted noise levels may be established in order to protect
adjacent properties. Any such requirement will be made a condition of the
rezoning. Conditions may also specify muting, special landscape treatments and
berms.
         (p)   All buildings located in residential zoning districts shall have
the appearance of a residence or other use allowed by right in that zoning
district.
         (q)   All outdoor storage areas shall be sited to the rear, or center
of a facility and require a Type A buffer abutting any property line.
         (r)   In addition to FAA and/or State Commander’s Council review, the
applicant shall demonstrate that any glare created from the project will not
adversely impact surrounding properties or vehicles traveling on rights-of-way
near the site by submitting a glare analysis study sealed by a licensed state
engineer (PE).
         (s)   A security fence no less than six feet tall shall be installed
around the perimeter of the proposed site.
         (t)   Applicant will provide a maintenance contract for the project’s
landscaping for 18 months following the final landscape inspection by the Town
Planner. In cases where existing well-established vegetation is proposed to be
used to meet buffering requirements, the maintenance contract will be applied
to new plantings only.
      (8)   Decommissioning, abandonment, hazard abatement. A signed and
notarized decommissioning plan shall be submitted with the special use permit
application and shall be in a form suitable to be recorded with the Register of
Deeds. The decommissioning plan shall include, at a minimum, all the following
provisions and requirements:
         (a)   Following a six-month period in which no electricity is
generated, the permit holder will have six months to complete decommissioning
of the system. Decommissioning includes removal of solar panels, support
columns, buildings, cabling, electrical components and any other associated
facilities down to 72 inches below grade;
         (b)   Identification of any other conditions or circumstances upon
which decommissioning will be initiated (e.g., end of lease, condition of a
potential public safety hazard and the like);
         (c)   Following removal, disturbed earth shall be graded and reseeded,
unless the landowner requests in writing that access roads or other land
surface areas are not to be restored;
         (d)   Prompt repair or removal of any structures that no longer
function, become damaged or that constitute a safety hazard regardless of
whether due to neglect, human-made or natural causes;
         (e)   The timeframe for completion of removal and decommissioning
activities shall be from 180 days to 12 months unless otherwise extended
following receipt of an application for extension; and
         (f)   A signed statement from the party responsible for completing the
decommissioning plan acknowledging their responsibility to execute the
decommissioning plan in accordance with these standards.
      (9)   Decommissioning performance guarantee. A performance guarantee for
the potential decommissioning of a major solar energy conversion system shall
be provided to the town by an applicant in accordance with the following
standards.
         (a)   The guarantee shall be posted with the town prior to
establishment of the facility.
         (b)   The performance guarantee shall renew automatically and shall
include a minimum 60-day notice to the town prior to cancellation.
         (c)   The guarantee shall be provided by a company on the United
StatesDepartment of Treasury’s listing of certified companies.
         (d)   A guarantee consisting of a bond certificate shall be submitted
to the Town Planner each year verifying the bond has been properly renewed.
         (e)   The amount of the guarantee shall be one and a quarter times the
estimated decommissioning cost and shall not be reduced by the salvage value.
         (f)   Cost estimates for decommissioning shall be determined by a
state licensed engineer or a licensed contractor and shall be provided by the
applicant.
         (g)   Compliance with these requirements shall be fulfilled upon
deposit of a certified check deposited with the Finance Officer.
         (h)   Funds deposited with the Finance Officer will only be returned
when the facility is decommissioned and any necessary site restoration is
completed. The full amount of the bond or certified check shall remain in full
effect until the facility is decommissioned and any necessary site restoration
is complete.
DIVISION 4. ACCESSORY USES
§ 540 PURPOSE.
   This division authorizes the establishment of accessory uses and structures
that are incidental and subordinate to principal uses. The purpose of this
division is to allow a broad range of accessory uses and structures, provided
they comply with the standards set forth in this section in order to reduce
potentially adverse impacts on surrounding lands.
§ 541 PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Accessory uses or structures may be approved in conjunction with
the approval of the principal use or subsequently following the establishment
of the principal use.
      (2)   No accessory use or structure shall be approved, established or
constructed before a principal use is approved in accordance with this
ordinance.
   (B)   Applications to establish a planned unit development shall be
supplemented with a written list of proposed accessory uses which shall be
attached to the application approval along with other conditions of approval.
   (C)   (1)   
Table 9, Common Accessory Uses, may not be inclusive of all possible accessory
uses, and in the event an accessory use is proposed that is not listed in the
table, the Town Planner shall consult the principal use table to determine if
the proposed accessory use corresponds to a listed principal use.
      (2)   Any permitted principal use in a zoning district is also principal
as an accessory use. In no instance shall an accessory use be permitted in a
zoning district where it is prohibited as a principal use.
   (D)   In the event a proposed accessory use is not listed in the common
accessory use table and there is no corresponding principal use, the Town
Planner shall determine how to treat the accessory use in accordance with §
513, Procedure for Classification of Unlisted Uses.
§ 542 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ALL ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses and structures. Permitted accessory uses and
structures shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Are clearly incidental to an allowed principal use or structure;
      (2)   Are subordinate to and serve an allowed principal use or structure;
      (3)   Are subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal use or
structure; and
      (4)   Contribute to the comfort, convenience or needs of occupants
associated with the principal use or structure.
   (B)   Location of accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Within required landscaping areas. Except for fences and walls
contributing to the screening function of a landscaping buffer, no accessory
structure shall be located within a required landscaping buffer except where
allowed by
Article 6, Division 5.
      (2)   Within a required setback. No accessory use or structure may be
located in a required setback except as permitted in §
413, Allowable Encroachments.
      (3)   Within other areas on a site. No accessory use or structure shall:
         (a)   Be within ten feet of a lot line, except as authorized by in §
413, Allowable Encroachments;
         (b)   Be within 20 feet of the centerline of an alley except as
authorized by in §
413, Allowable Encroachments;
         (c)   Be located within a required front yard;
         (d)   Be within a designated fire lane;
         (e)   Obstruct required sight distance triangles;
         (f)   Impede ingress or egress to a lot, site or principal structure;
         (g)   Be located above or beneath public utilities (except for fences
or walls);
         (h)   Interfere with drainage or stormwater control measures; or
         (i)   Be within an emergency access route designated on an approved
site plan.
      (4)   Within an easement. Except for authorized stormwater control
measures within a drainage easement, no accessory use or structure shall be
located within any platted or recorded easement without the prior written
consent of the landowner.
      (5)   Structure height. Accessory structures shall comply with the height
requirements for the zoning district where located.
      (6)   Maximum size. In no instance shall the cumulative total square
footage of all accessory uses or structures on a lot exceed more than 50% of
the total square footage of the principal structure or structures on the same
lot. In the case of an open-air principal use, the cumulative total square
footage of all accessory uses or structures on a lot shall not exceed more than
40% of the total square footage of the area devoted to the principal use.
      (7)   Compliance with ordinance requirements. Accessory uses and
structures shall conform to the applicable requirements of this ordinance,
including this section, the district standards in
Article 4, the development standards in
Article 6 and the subdivision standards in
Article 7.
      (8)   Compliance with design standards. Accessory uses and structures
serving principle uses that are subject to the design standards in
Article 6, Division 2, shall comply with the design standards applied to the
principal use they serve or shall employ exterior materials, colors and
architectural details that are configured to be complimentary to the principal
use. The degree to which proposed exterior materials, colors and architectural
details are configured in a complimentary manner to a principal use shall be in
the sole opinion of the review authority deciding the application.
§ 543 TABLE OF COMMON ACCESSORY USES.
   
Table 9, Common Accessory Uses, is established as a guide to identify the
appropriateness of the more common accessory uses in each zoning district.
   (A) If a specific accessory use is allowed by right, the cell underneath the
zoning district is marked with a “P.”
   (C)   If a specific accessory use is allowed subject to a special use
permit, the cell underneath the zoning district is marked with a “S.”
   (D)   If the accessory use or structure is not allowed in a zoning district,
the cell is marked with an “X.”
   (E)   In the case of planned unit development districts, if an accessory use
is allowable, it is marked with an “A,” and the accessory use must be set out
in the approved master plan or terms and conditions document.
   (F)   If there is a reference contained in the column entitled “Acc. Use
Standards §,” refer to the cited section(s) for additional standards that apply
to the specific accessory use.
   (G)   In the event a particular accessory use or structure is not listed in
the table, the Town Planner shall determine if the proposed accessory use or
structure can be allowed based on the range of allowable principal uses for the
lot in accordance with the principal use table. In no instance shall a use or
activity that is prohibited as a principal use on a lot be authorized as an
accessory use. If no corresponding or similar principal use can be determined,
the Town Planner shall determine if the proposed accessory structure or
activity may be permitted as a special use in the district where proposed.
Table 9 - Common Accessory Uses
“P” = Permitted with a zoning compliance permit, subject to applicable use
standards
“S” = Permitted with a special use permit, subject to applicable use
standards
“A” = Allowed provided the use is listed in the PD terms and conditions
statement, subject to applicable accessory use
“•” = Prohibited
[#] = Table Note
Accessory Use or Zoning Districts                        Acc. Use Standards §
Structure Type   RA R-20 R-15 R-9 R-9M OI NB CB HB I PUD
Table 9 - Common Accessory Uses
“P” = Permitted with a zoning compliance permit, subject to applicable use
standards
“S” = Permitted with a special use permit, subject to applicable use standards
“A” = Allowed provided the use is listed in the PD terms and conditions
statement, subject to applicable accessory use
“•” = Prohibited
[#] = Table Note
Accessory Use or    Zoning Districts                        Acc. Use Standards
Structure Type      RA R-20 R-15 R-9 R-9M OI NB CB HB I PUD §

Accessory dwelling  P  P    S    S   •  S  S  ••A   544(A)
unit
Amateur ham radio   P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P A   544(B)
Automated teller    ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  P A   544(C)
machine
Childcare,          P  P    P    P   P    P  P  S  •A   544(D)
incidental
Drive-through       ••  •  • •  ••S  P  S A   544(E)
Electric vehicle    P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P A   544(F)
charging station
Family healthcare   P  P    P    P   P    P  P  ••A   544(G)
structure
Games, pool,        ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  P A   544(U)
billiards, pinball
Guard house shelter P  S    S    S   P    P  P  P  P  P A   544(H)
or gatehouse
Home occupation     P  P    P    P   S    P  S  ••A   544(I)
Outdoor dining and  ••  •  • •  S  P  P  P  A   544(J)
seating
Outdoor display/    S  •  •  • •  •S  P  P  P A   544(K)
sales
Outdoor storage (as ••  •  • •  ••P  P  P A   544(L)
an accessory use)
Parking of          P  S    S    S   •  •P  P  P  P A   544(M)
commercial vehicles
Parking of heavy    ••  •  • •  •••P  P A   544(N)
trucks or trailers
Parking of
recreational        P  P    P    P   •  ••••A
vehicles
Play equipment      P  P    P    P   P    P  •••A
Produce stand       P  •  •  • •  •P  P  •A   544(O)
Solar energy system P  P    P    P   P    P  P  P  P  P A   544(P)
(small scale)
Stable (horses)     P  P    P    P   •  ••••A   544(Q)
Storage of
unlicensed or       P  P    P    P   P    ••••A   544(R)
inoperable vehicles
or trailers
Swimming pool/hot   P  P    P    P   P    P  •••A   544(S)
tub
Tool/storage shed   P  P    P    P   •  P  •P  •P A
Underground storage P  •  •  • •  ••P  P  P A   544(T)
tank
 
§ 544 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COMMON ACCESSORY USES.
   Standards for a specific accessory use or structure shall apply to the
particular individual accessory use or structure regardless of the zoning
district in which it is located or the review procedure by which it is
approved, unless otherwise specified in this ordinance. This section sets forth
and consolidates the standards for all accessory uses and structures for which
a reference to this section is provided in the “Acc. Use Standards” column of
the common accessory use table. These standards may be modified by other
applicable standards or requirements in this ordinance.
   (A)   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU). An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is
permitted as accessory to a single-family detached dwelling and shall comply
with the following standards.
      (1)   No more than one ADU shall be located on a lot with a single-family
detached dwelling.
      (2)   An ADU shall not exceed 35% of the total amount of finished floor
area in the principal structure.
      (3)   An ADU shall not exceed one story in height, but nothing shall
limit an ADU from being located on a second or third story, provided the
structure complies with the applicable maximum height limitations in the
district where located.
      (4)   An ADU and the principal dwelling shall have the same street
address and mailbox.
      (5)   An ADU shall not be subdivided or otherwise separated in ownership
from the principal dwelling unit.
      (6)   An ADU and the principal dwelling shall utilize the same driveway,
unless the ADU is accessed from a right-of-way not used by the principal
dwelling (e.g., a rear alley or separate street access on a corner or through
lot).
      (7)   An ADU shall be served by public or private potable water and
wastewater treatment system and may be served by water, sanitary sewer, gas and
electrical utilities shared with the principal use.
   (B)   Amateur ham radio. Amateur radio antennas shall comply with G.S. §
160D-905 and the following.
      (1)   Towers associated with an amateur ham radio operator or private
television antenna shall not exceed 100 feet above grade.
      (2)   Towers or antennas attached to a principal structure shall be
located on a side or rear elevation.
      (3)   Freestanding towers or antennas shall be located behind the
principal structure.
   (C)   Automated teller machine (ATM).
      (1)   An ATM designed for walk-up use and located in the exterior wall of
a building, or a parking area shall be designed to avoid obstructions to
pedestrian movement along sidewalks, through public use areas or between
parking areas and building entrances, or vehicular movement in front of
buildings or through parking areas.
      (2)   If an ATM is designed for use by customers in their vehicles, it
shall comply with the accessory use standards (including districts where
permitted) for a drive-through.
      (3)   The overall character of an automated teller machine in terms of
materials, colors and architectural character shall be compatible with that of
the principal structure.
   (D)   Childcare, incidental. An incidental childcare or home daycare for up
to five unrelated children is permitted as an accessory use to an occupied
residential dwelling unit if it complies with G.S. Chapter 110, Article 7, and
the Summary of North Carolina Child Care Laws and Rules pamphlet prepared by
the State Department of Health and Human Services.
   (E)   Drive-through. Drive-through facilities shall comply with the
following standards:
      (1)   Outdoor speakers associated with a drive-through shall be at least
50 feet from any lot with a residential zoning district designation;
      (2)   Drive-through windows, menus or order boxes shall not be located on
the front facade of the building they serve;
      (3)   Drive-through facilities shall be designed so as not to obstruct
the movement of pedestrians along sidewalks, through areas intended for public
use or between the building entrance and customer parking spaces; and
      (4)   Canopies or other features installed over a drive-through window
shall maintain common roof lines and materials with the principal structure.
   (F)   Electric vehicle (EV) charging station.
      (1)   Electric vehicle (EV) charging station spaces shall be reserved for
the charging of electric vehicles only and shall be posted with signage
identifying the spaces as reserved only for the charging of electric vehicles,
amperage and voltage levels, any enforceable time limits or tow away provisions
and contact information for reporting non-operating equipment or other
problems.
      (2)   A required accessible parking space may also serve as an EV
charging station space, provided the charging station and its controls meet ADA
standards for accessibility to persons with physical disabilities.
      (3)   EV charging station equipment shall be located so as not to
interfere with vehicle, bicycle or pedestrian access and circulation, or with
required landscaping.
      (4)   Transformers and similar equipment shall be screened from off-site
views with landscaping, fences or walls, or other method that obscures the
transformer and related equipment.
   (G)   Family healthcare structure. One family healthcare structure is
permitted on a lot with a single-family detached dwelling, in accordance with
the standards in G.S. § 160D-915 and the following standards.
      (1)   Structure. A family healthcare structure is one that:
         (a)   Is transportable and primarily assembled at a location other
than the site of installation;
         (b)   Is located on a lot with an existing single-family detached
dwelling;
         (c)   Is limited to one occupant who is a mentally or physically
impaired person related to the caregiver;
         (d)   Is used by a caregiver or legal guardian in providing care for
one mentally or physically impaired person on property owned or occupied as the
caregiver’s or guardian’s residence;
         (e)   Has no more than 300 square feet of gross floor area;
         (f)   Is connected with water, wastewater and electrical systems by
branching service from the single-family detached dwelling;
         (g)   Has the same street address and mailbox as the existing single-
family detached dwelling;
         (h)   Uses the same driveway as the existing single-family dwelling,
unless the structure is accessed from a right-of-way not used by the dwelling
(e.g., a rear alley or separate street access on a corner or through lot);
         (i)   Meets the dimensional standards of the zoning district for a
single-family detached dwelling; and
         (j)   Meets the applicable provisions in the State Building Code;
however, is not located on a permanent foundation.
      (2)   Need and relationship.
         (a)   The occupant of the structure must be a mentally or physically
impaired person that is a resident of the state who requires assistance with
two or more activities of daily living (bathing, dressing, personal hygiene,
ambulation or locomotion, transferring, toileting and eating) as certified in
writing by a physician licensed to practice in the state.
         (b)   The caregiver must be an individual 18 years of age or older who
provides care for the mentally or physically impaired person and is a first or
second degree relative of the impaired person.
         (c)   A first or second degree relative is a spouse, lineal ascendant,
lineal descendant, sibling, uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, including half, step
and in-law relationships.
      (3)   Permit conditions.
         (a)   Once the applicant provides sufficient proof that the family
healthcare structure meets all standards, then the structure shall be permitted
for a period of 12 months.
         (b)   The applicant may renew the prior approval for a 12-month period
and continue to renew it, provided the applicant provides evidence of continued
need and compliance with these standards.
         (c)   The town may make periodic inspections of the family healthcare
structure at reasonable times convenient to the applicant.
         (d)   No signage shall be permitted on the exterior of the structure
or on the lot that identifies or promotes the existence of the structure.
         (e)   The structure shall not be subdivided or otherwise separated in
ownership from the single-family detached dwelling.
         (f)   The structure shall be removed within 60 days if the impaired
occupant is no longer receiving or in need of assistance.
         (g)   The approval may be revoked, or other enforcement actions taken
if these standards are violated.
   (H)   Guard house, shelter or gatehouse. Such uses shall be subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Maintain a maximum size or floor area of 100 square feet or less;
      (2)   A height of 15 feet or less;
      (3)   Be located outside any required sight distance triangles;
      (4)   Maintain a minimum distance of five feet from a public street
right-of-way; and
      (5)   Nothing shall limit the placement of a guard house, guard shelter
or gatehouse within a required yard or setback.
   (I)   Home occupation. Customary home occupations, such as home offices,
beauty parlors, dressmaking, laundering, music teaching, tutoring and the like,
shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Home occupation accessory uses shall be clearly incidental and
subordinate to a dwelling’s use for residential purposes by its occupants.
      (2)   Home occupations shall be engaged in only by a resident on the
premises, and not more than one employee may be a nonresident.
      (3)   No more than 25% of the floor area of a dwelling shall be used for
home occupations.
      (4)   No more than 50% of the floorplate of a detached accessory
structure shall be used for home occupations.
      (5)   No display of goods or signage shall be visible from off-site
areas.
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation that
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interferences
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used that creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in
line voltage off the premises.
      (7)   Only one commercial vehicle with up to one attached trailer
associated with the home occupation may be parked or stored on the lot.
      (8)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard.
   (J)   Outdoor dining and seating. Restaurant and similar entertainment uses
may provide outdoor dining and seating only in accordance with the following
standards:
      (1)   Outdoor seating and dining shall be located to the front or side of
the principal use served;
      (2)   Outdoor dining and seating shall be located outside the public
right-of-way and shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular access;
      (3)   All state requirements must be obtained prior to serving alcohol;
      (4)   The outdoor dining or seating area must be at least 100 feet from
any residential zoning district boundary; and
      (5)   Comply with any applicable NCDOT requirements.
   (K)   Outdoor display/sales. The outdoor display and sale of goods shall be
limited to a commercial or mixed use development and shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   Except in the NB or CB Districts, an outdoor display/sales area
shall not be located within a required front yard or street setback.
      (2)   In the NB or CB Districts, outdoor display/sales areas may be
located on or adjacent to the sidewalk, provided the display is attached to or
located immediately adjacent to a building’s front facade wall.
      (3)   Outdoor display/sales areas shall not be located any closer than
five feet from any lot line.
      (4)   Outdoor display/sales areas shall not be located within any town or
state site easement.
      (5)   Outdoor display areas shall maintain at least five feet of space
along the side of the display free of obstruction to allow for pedestrian and
handicap movement, such that pedestrians do not have to step off the sidewalk
or enter the drive aisle to see the merchandise.
   (L)   Outdoor storage (as an accessory use).
      (1)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all
outdoor storage areas other than uses where outdoor storage is the principal
use of land.
         (a)   The extent of the outdoor storage area shall be clearly
delineated on a site plan.
         (b)   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the minimum setback
standards applicable in the zoning district where the outdoor storage area is
located.
         (c)   Outdoor storage areas are prohibited between the development’s
principal structure(s) and an arterial or collector street.
         (d)   1.   All areas of outdoor storage shall be surrounded by an
opaque fence or wall of a minimum height sufficient to conceal the material
stored within from off-site views. In the event the fence or wall is located
within a required setback, the fence or wall shall not exceed the maximum
height for fences or walls specified in
Article 6, Division 4.
            2.   Nothing shall limit the height of a screening fence or wall if
it is located 20 feet or more from the edge of a required setback.
         (e)   No outdoor storage area shall be located within a required
landscaping area.
         (f)   Stored goods, materials and equipment shall be limited to those
goods, materials and equipment associated with the principal use or uses of the
lot.
         (g)   No materials shall be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
         (h)   No materials shall be stored on any potable or non-potable water
easement, stormwater easement or sanitary sewer easement.
         (i)   In no instance shall a manufactured or mobile home be used for
the purposes of storage.
   (M)   Parking of commercial vehicles. Parking of a commercial vehicle at a
single-family detached dwelling or duplex shall be subject to the following
standards.
      (1)   Only one commercial vehicle and up to one associated trailer is
allowed.
      (2)   The commercial vehicle shall be set back 70 feet from the front lot
line and 50 feet from the interior lot lines.
   (N)   Parking of heavy trucks or trailers.
      (1)   The parking and/or storage of motorized and non-motorized vehicles
in excess of 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight shall be prohibited in all
residential districts except: for loading and unloading purposes; for emergency
home service; for use in the conduct of a legal nonconforming use; for
temporary construction purposes; or for bona fide agricultural purposes.
      (2)   No apparatus designed to be used as a motor vehicle or designed to
be towed by a separate motorized unit or vehicle shall be allowed to be used as
a storage facility or accessory building in any residential district.
   (O)   Produce stand. The sale of fresh vegetables and produce from curbside
stands or in a similar fashion shall:
      (1)   Be located on the same lot as a principal use;
      (2)   Be limited to retail sale of agricultural or horticultural products
grown on-site or in agricultural facilities under the same ownership as the
produce stand;
      (3)   Be located outside sight distance triangles or other areas that may
result in visual obstructions to drivers;
      (4)   Not exceed 1,000 square feet in area; and
      (5)   Provide adequate ingress/egress and off-street parking.
   (P)   Solar energy system (small-scale). A small-scale solar energy system
(SES) shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   An SES may be roof-mounted, attached to a principle or accessory
structure, be ground-mounted or placed over a parking or other hard-surface
area;
      (2)   The footprint of a ground-mounted SES shall not exceed 50% of the
floorplate of the principal structure, or one acre, whichever is less;
      (3)   An SES shall comply with the dimensional requirements for the
district where located;
      (4)   An SES shall not obscure required sight distance triangles;
      (5)   An SES may be placed within a required landscaping area, provided
it does not compromise the screening objective of the landscaping;
      (6)   Ground-mounted SES facilities are exempted from screening
requirements;
      (7)   Ground-mounted SES facilities shall not exceed 20 feet in height
above adjacent pre-construction grade;
      (8)   SES mounted on single-family residences, duplexes, triplexes or
townhouses shall not be visible to a person on the ground and that are located:
         (a)   On the facade of a structure that faces areas open to common or
public access;
         (b)   On a roof surface that slopes downward toward the same areas
open to common or public access; or
         (c)   Withing the area set off by a line running across the facade of
the structure extending to the property boundaries on either side of the
facade, and those areas of common or public access faced by the structure.
      (9)   This subsection (V) shall not be applied to have the effect of
prohibiting the installation of an SES.
   (Q)   Stable (horses). Stables shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   The land on which the facility is located shall be at least two
acres in size.
      (2)   No stalls or stables shall be within 200 feet of any existing
adjoining residential dwelling and 100 feet from any adjoining well being used
for human consumption.
      (3)   Stables must be operated and maintained in a healthy and safe
manner in accordance with
Chapter 90, Animals, of the town’s code of ordinances. For the purpose of this
subsection (W), HEALTHY AND SAFE is defined as, but not limited to: fences kept
in good repair; potable water available on demand; protection from wind or
rain; a sign posted indicating the name and phone number of the person to be
contacted in case of emergency.
   (R)   Storage of unlicensed or inoperable vehicles or trailers. In the
districts where permitted as an accessory use, a maximum of one unlicensed
(lacking a valid license plate) or inoperable vehicles may be permitted per lot
in accordance with
Chapter 94, Nuisances, in the town’s code of ordinances; provided, that the
first vehicle is stored in a garage or other building and the second vehicle;
one vehicle is stored in the back yard, is covered and is concealed from the
view of the street and abutting premises. (See §
94.19.)
   (S)   Swimming pool/hot tub.
      (1)   These standards shall apply to any built structure placed or
constructed for the purpose of bathing or swimming with a depth of two feet or
more in accordance with the State Building Code.
      (2)   Swimming pools built as accessory uses shall be completely isolated
from adjacent lands and streets by a fence or other structure having a minimum
height of four feet and configured to prevent small children from gaining
unsupervised access to the pool or hot tub in accordance with the State
Building Code.
      (3)   Gates or doors opening into the area around the swimming pool from
outside the dwelling shall have self-closing and self-latching devises for
keeping the gate or door closed at all times when not in use.
      (4)   Access to a pool or hot tub serving a nonresidential use shall
limit access to the pool or hot tub by members of the general public.
      (5)   Swimming pools and hot tubs included as an accessory use to a
single-family subdivision shall include one off-street parking space for every
four persons of design capacity.
   (T)   Underground storage tank. Underground storage tanks shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Underground storage tanks shall not be located within required
setbacks, easements or beneath public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Underground storage tanks shall be installed and operated only in
accordance with the State Building Code and all applicable Fire Code
requirements.
      (3)   Underground storage tanks shall be depicted on site plans and as-
builts.
   (U)   Games, pool, billiards, pin ball. No more than three machines in total
are permitted on any property or use.
DIVISION 5. TEMPORARY USES
§ 550 PURPOSE.
   This division allows for the establishment of specific temporary uses of
limited duration, provided that such uses do not negatively affect adjacent
land, and provided that such temporary uses are discontinued upon the
expiration of a set time period. Temporary uses shall not involve the
construction or alteration of any permanent building or structure.
§ 551 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The standards in this division apply to non-permanent uses that take
place on a temporary basis whether on the same site or in different locations
in the jurisdiction.
   (B)   The activities listed in this division require the issuance of a
temporary use permit, except as exempted, and compliance with the general
standards for all temporary uses and structures, and the applicable standards
for specific temporary uses.
§ 552 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   All temporary uses and structures shall comply with the following general
standards, unless otherwise specified in this ordinance:
   (A)   General standards. An applicant proposing a temporary use or structure
shall:
      (1)   Secure written permission from the landowner;
      (2)   Obtain the appropriate permits and licenses from the town and other
agencies;
      (3)   Comply with the requirements for temporary signs in
Article 6, Division 8, if signage is proposed;
      (4)   Meet public utility and town requirements for proper connection to
water, sewer, electrical and other utility service connections, as applicable;
      (5)   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply to a
site or use on the site;
      (6)   Not result in a situation where the principal use, if present,
fails to comply with the standards of this ordinance;
      (7)   Ensure the site of a temporary use or structure contains sufficient
land area for the temporary use and for the parking and traffic movement
associated with the temporary use, without impacting environmentally sensitive
lands;
      (8)   Ensure temporary uses remain in place no longer than 90 days if
located within a special flood hazard area;
      (9)   Provide adequate on-site restroom facilities (as appropriate); and
      (10)   Cease all outdoor activities within 500 feet of a residential use
by 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   General conditions. In approving a temporary use permit, the Town
Planner is authorized to impose any of the following general conditions upon
the premises benefited by the permit as may be necessary to reduce or minimize
any potential adverse impacts upon other property in the area, as long as the
condition relates to a situation created or aggravated by the proposed
temporary use:
      (1)   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
access and egress;
      (2)   Control of nuisance factors, such as, but not limited to, the
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases and heat;
      (3)   Prohibition of the storage or use of hazardous materials;
      (4)   Regulation of placement, height, size and location of equipment;
      (5)   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities;
      (6)   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal;
      (7)   Provision of security and safety measures;
      (8)   Use of an alternate location or date;
      (9)   Modification or elimination of certain proposed activities;
      (10)   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation of
the duration to a shorter time period than requested or specified in this
subsection (C); and
      (11)   Submission of a performance guarantee to ensure that any temporary
use will be removed from the lot or site within a reasonable time and the lot
or site will be restored to its former condition.
   (C)   Standards for specific temporary uses.
      (1)   Food truck and push cart vendors. Food truck operations and push
cart vendors shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Location. Food trucks and push carts may only be operated in the
following zoning districts:
            1.   The Neighborhood Business (NB) District, subject to the
additional standards in (C)(1) through (C)(3) below;
            2.   The Central Business (CB) District;
            3.   The Industrial and Manufacturing (I) District; and
            4.   Within a PUD District, provided the temporary use is listed in
the associated master plan or terms and conditions statement.
         (b)   Placement during and after food sales.
            1.   Food trucks and push carts shall be parked on private property
with the property owners’ permission and shall not be parked within any public
street, right-of-way or sidewalk unless in the CB District, or the street has
been closed for a special event.
            2.   A food truck or push cart shall be removed after operating
hours or a special event and be stored in a legally permissible location.
         (c)   Additional standards for food trucks and push carts within the
Central and Neighborhood Business Districts.
            1.   Food trucks operating between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m. shall not be parked on the street for more than two consecutive hours
unless the street has been closed for a special event.
            3.   The customer access for food sales shall be from the side of
the food truck facing the sidewalk not the street.
            4.   Food sales shall not impede pedestrian traffic along the
sidewalk.
            5.   Push carts operating in the CB District shall not operate or
sell food upon any sidewalk.
         (d)   Minimum distance from certain use types.
            1.   No food truck or push cart vendors shall operate within 100
feet of any school, religious institution or cemetery.
            2.   No food truck shall operate within 75 feet from the main
entrance of any restaurant during business hours, unless authorized by a
restaurant.
         (e)   Operation.
            1.   The food truck or push cart owner or his or her designee shall
be present at all times except in case of an emergency.
            2.   The hours of operation shall be between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 12:00 a.m. except for special events.
            3.   A food truck shall either sell food or beverage that is exempt
from Health Department regulation, or obtain approval from the County Health
Department where food sales take place.
            4.   Food truck operators and push cart vendors are responsible for
the proper disposal of waste and trash associated with the operation. Town
trash receptacles are not to be used for this purpose. Operators and vendors
shall remove all waste and trash from their location at the end of each day or
as needed to maintain the health and safety of the public.
            5.   The vendor shall keep all areas within ten feet of the truck
or cart clean of grease, trash, paper, cups or cans associated with the
operation.
            6.   No liquid waste or grease is to be disposed into tree pits,
storm drains or onto the sidewalks, streets or other public locations. Under no
circumstances shall grease be released into or disposed of in a sanitary sewer
system.
         (f)   Associated features.
            1.   There shall be no audio amplifier or similar device to attract
the attention of the public.
            2.   No tables, chairs or other structures shall be allowed outside
of the food truck or around a push cart.
            3.   Advertising consisting of business name, logo and items
available for sale may be displayed on the food truck or push cart. No other
form of advertising shall be permitted.
      (2)   Itinerant merchant sales. Itinerant merchant sales, not including
food truck vendors, are permitted on lots in nonresidential and planned
development districts, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   The sale of merchandise, products or material must be a
permitted principal use in the zoning district where the sales are temporarily
located.
         (b)   Itinerant merchants shall file an indemnification form with the
town when engaged in open air sales.
         (c)   Itinerant merchant sales shall be located outside of street
rights-of way, required sight distance triangles, required landscape areas,
vehicular circulation areas and areas where pedestrian access is needed to
ensure safe movement through or across a site.
         (d)   Signage shall comply with the standards for temporary signage in
Article 6, Division 8.
         (e)   All merchandise and related materials shall be removed from the
site following the sale.
         (f)   The maximum period of operation of itinerant merchant sales
shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
         (g)   Permitted itinerant merchant sales shall be limited in duration
to a maximum of 45 continuous days from the date the temporary use permit is
issued.
      (3)   Outdoor seasonal sales. Outdoor seasonal sales are permitted on a
lot in all zoning districts, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Seasonal sales shall be limited to seasonal agricultural
products such as Christmas trees, pumpkins and living plants.
         (b)   The maximum hours of operation of an outdoor seasonal sales use
shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., except when located in a residential
district, then the seasonal sales use shall cease by 9:00 p.m.
         (c)   Exterior lighting shall comply with the requirements in
Article 6, Division 3.
         (d)   One recreational vehicle is allowed as a temporary dwelling for
security purposes in association with the seasonal sales use, provided it meets
the general standards for a temporary dwelling, and is removed at the end of
the sales.
         (e)   The on-site accessory sale of seasonal products by an
agricultural use or retail sales use is not considered outdoor seasonal sales
and is not subject to these standards.
         (f)   Outdoor seasonal sales shall be limited in duration to a maximum
of 45 continuous days from the date the temporary use permit is issued.
      (4)   Portable storage container. Portable storage containers may be
permitted as a temporary use to a single-family detached, duplex, triplex or
townhouse dwelling unit, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   Types distinguished. Portable storage containers shall take one
of the following three forms:
            1.   A container used for the purposes of storage of personal
property, such as household items being temporarily stored or relocated;
            2.   A roll-off box, bin or construction dumpster used for the
collection and hauling of waste or debris; or
            3.   A fully-enclosed, non-motorized, trailer (commonly known as a
semi-trailer) with wheels intended to be towed to a site for the purpose of
storage or transport of goods, materials or equipment.
         (b)   Permit required. A building permit shall not be required for a
portable storage container, but a temporary use permit is required.
         (c)   Exemptions. The standards in this section shall not apply to
portable storage containers used as temporary construction trailers,
construction dumpsters or construction materials recycling facilities, provided
construction on the site is ongoing.
         (d)   Maximum size. Containers shall be no larger in dimension than
eight feet in height, eight feet in width or 20 feet in length.
         (e)   Maximum number.
            1.   No more than two portable storage containers shall be located
on a single lot or parcel of land.
            2.   No other type of container or shipping container shall be
located on the same lot or parcel of land when one or two portable shipping
containers are in place.
         (f)   Hazardous substances. Portable storage containers shall not be
used to store or transport nonresidential materials and substances, including,
but not limited to, the following: solid waste; hazardous materials;
explosives; or unlawful substances and materials.
         (g)   Location.
            1.   A portable storage container may be located in a driveway, a
designated parking area or behind a dwelling.
            2.   If site conditions make placement of the portable storage
container behind a dwelling, on a driveway or in a designated parking area
impossible, then the portable storage container may be located immediately
adjacent to the driveway or designated parking area.
            3.   A portable storage container shall not be located between the
front of a dwelling and the street it faces unless any other placement is
impossible due to site conditions.
            4.   In no instance shall a portable storage container be located
within a town street, public street right-of-way or in a location that poses a
threat to public health or safety.
         (h)   Duration.
            1.   Portable storage containers may be located on a site for a
maximum of up to 90 days per calendar year.
            2.   In no instance shall these standards be construed to allow
placement of one or more portable storage containers on a single site for more
than 90 days in any single calendar year.
      (5)   Special events.
         (a)   Exempt events. A special event is not subject to these
requirements if the event lasts two or fewer days within a 180-day period on a
lot with an established principal use, or the event is sponsored by the town, a
county or the state.
         (b)   Subject to this ordinance. A special event not otherwise
exempted from the standards in this section is permitted on a lot in a
nonresidential or planned development district, subject to the following
standards.
            1.   A special event includes, but is not limited to, arts and
crafts shows, cultural events, musical events, concerts and stage shows,
celebrations, festivals, fairs, carnivals, circuses or outdoor religious
events.
            2.   Circuses, carnivals and similar amusements may be subject to
the applicable provisions of the town code of ordinances.
            3.   Temporary dwelling(s) are allowed in association with the
special event, provided they meet the standards for temporary dwellings and are
removed at the end of the event.
      (6)   Temporary dwelling. A temporary dwelling is permitted on a lot
subject to the following standards.
         (a)   A temporary dwelling may be either a dwelling that meets all
applicable State Building Code requirements for a dwelling or a recreational
vehicle.
         (b)   The temporary dwelling shall be located on a lot and meet the
dimensional standards of the zoning district, to the maximum extent practicable
         (c)   Temporary emergency dwellings operated by a religious
institution, governmental agency or non-profit organization may be located to
provide emergency shelter where fire, flood or other natural disaster has
displaced persons.
         (d)   Temporary dwellings may be used on a construction site and
occupied by persons having construction or security responsibilities over such
construction site. Temporary dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the
structure under construction.
         (e)   The temporary use permit shall not be issued until a site plan
is approved or a building permit is issued for a principal structure.
         (f)   A temporary dwelling shall be removed within 30 days of issuance
of a certificate of occupancy for the structure, or removed immediately if the
building permit expires or is revoked.
         (g)   A temporary dwelling shall be limited in duration to a maximum
of six months, except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for good
cause shown.
      (7)   Temporary real estate office. A temporary real estate office is
permitted on a lot in a residential, business, special or conditional zoning
district, subject to the following standards:
         (a)   The office is located on a lot that is part of the real estate
development being sold or leased;
         (b)   Signage complies with the standards in
Article 6, Division 8;
         (c)   The office complies with the dimensional standards of the zoning
district in which it is located;
         (d)   The temporary office is converted into a dwelling or removed
within 30 days after all units are sold or leased; and
         (e)   In the event a temporary real estate office is a trailer, it
shall be removed within 30 days after all units are sold or leased.
      (8)   Temporary wireless telecommunications facility. A temporary
wireless telecommunications facility shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed
on a lot after a disaster or other emergency for a period not to exceed 30
days, except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for good cause shown.
         (b)   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed
on a lot to evaluate the technical feasibility of a site for a period not to
exceed 14 days, except that the temporary use permit may be renewed for good
cause shown.
         (c)   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed
on a lot in association with an event where the anticipated demand cannot be
handled by existing facilities for a period not to exceed 14 days.
         (d)   A temporary wireless telecommunications facility may be allowed
on a lot with an existing permanent wireless telecommunications facility where
the permanent structure is undergoing reconstruction or maintenance and the
temporary facility is needed to maintain sufficient levels of service. The
temporary facility shall be removed after reconstruction or maintenance is
complete and service restored on the permanent structure.
         (e)   All temporary wireless telecommunications facilities, including
all supporting cables and anchors, shall be contained on the lot.
DIVISION 6. PROHIBITED USES
§ 560 PROHIBITED EVERYWHERE.
   (A)   The following use types are not listed in
Table 8, Principal Uses (see §
527, Principal Uses Table), but are prohibited throughout the town’s planning
jurisdiction in all zoning districts. In cases where one or more of these uses
is lawfully established and in operation prior to June 7, 2021, the use shall
be subject to the transitional provisions in
Article 1.
      (1)   Agricultural uses.
         (a)   Concentrated animal feeding operations; and
         (b)   Slaughterhouses.
      (2)   Commercial uses. Outdoor advertising or billboards, except where
prohibition is preempted by state or federal law. Outdoor advertising lawfully
established prior to July 1, 2022, may be permitted to continue as a
nonconforming use only in accordance with G.S. §§ 136-126 through 136-140.1.
      (3)   Industrial uses.
         (a)   Acetylene gas manufacture;
         (b)   Acid manufacture;
         (c)   Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture;
         (d)   Brick, tile or terra cotta manufacture;
         (e)   Cellophane manufacture;
         (f)   Creosote manufacture or treatment plants;
         (g)   Distillation of bones, coal, petroleum, refuse, tar or wood;
         (h)   Explosives, ammunition, fireworks or gunpowder manufacture;
         (i)   Fat rendering or production of fats and oils from animal or
vegetable products by boiling or distillation;
         (j)   Garbage, offal or animal reduction and processing;
         (k)   Glue and size manufacture;
         (l)   Hazardous materials handling or storage;
         (m)   Leather and leather products manufacturing involving tanning;
         (n)   Linseed oil, shellac, turpentine manufacture or refining;
         (o)   Nitrogenous tankage, fish meal or manufacture of any fertilizer
materials carrying an objectionable odor;
         (p)   Oilcloth or linoleum manufacture;
         (q)   Ore reduction;
         (r)   Pulp mills; and
         (s)   Vinegar manufacturing.
      (4)   Institutional uses.
         (a)   Package treatment plant wastewater disposal systems that
discharge to surface waters; and
         (b)   Storage or processing of radioactive or infectious waste.
      (5)   Residential uses. Use of a boat, houseboat or other floating
structure as a temporary or permanent residence (this shall not prevent the
overnight occupancy of a vessel temporarily moored while in transit on
navigable waters). Use of a recreational vehicle as a permanent residence.
§ 561 PROHIBITED BY OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   Regardless of how a use type is permitted or prohibited in
Table 8, Principal Uses (see §
527, Principal Uses Table), if a lot or tract is located within one or more
overlay zoning districts, any use type limitations in the overlay district
standards shall control.
ARTICLE 6. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
DIVISION 1. ACCESS AND CIRCULATION
§ 610 SITE ACCESS AND ON-SITE CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this division is to ensure the safe
and efficient movement of vehicles, bicyclists, pedestrians and deliveries on
development sites in the town’s planning jurisdiction. More specifically, these
standards are intended to:
      (1)   Protect the health and safety of town residents and visitors;
      (2)   Ensure pedestrian accessibility is included in site planning;
      (3)   Protect the safety of motorists, pedestrians and bicyclists from
traffic entering or exiting the street system; and
      (4)   Encourage alternative forms of transportation.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   General. Except where otherwise expressly stated, the standards in
this division apply to all new development in the town’s planning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Existing development. Compliance with these standards shall also
apply to redevelopment of an existing structure, building or use when it is
expanded, enlarged or otherwise increased in intensity in an amount equivalent
to or beyond 50%.
      (3)   Conflict. In the event of conflict or overlap with the standards in
this section and the standards in the rest of
Article 6, Development Standards, the standards in
Article 7, Subdivisions, shall control.
   (C)   Timing of review.
      (1)   Development subject to these standards shall be reviewed for
compliance at the time of preliminary subdivision plat, site plan or special
use permit review, as appropriate.
      (2   In cases where a development application is considered by more than
one review authority, the decision regarding compliance with these standards
shall be made by the review authority making the final decision on the
application under review.
   (D)   Site access and circulation standards.
      (1)   Access to lots.
         (a)   While every lot is not required to have lot frontage on a public
street, every lot shall abut or have direct access, via a driveway configured
in accordance with subsection (D)(3) below, to a public street.
         (b)   No building or structure shall be constructed or placed on a lot
that does not abut or have direct access to a public street.
         (c)   Direct access to a publicly maintained street shall not extend
through or across land in a different zoning district than the lot being served
by the access (see
Figure 33, Lot Access). This requirement is waived when the land in the
different zoning district is classified as a business district, allows the use
being served by the direct access or provides the sole means of access for the
use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1781.png]
 
Figure 33 - Lot Access
         (d)   Vacant lots of record established prior to Nov. 1, 1995, that do
not abut a publicly maintained street may establish access through a permanent
access easement, provided the lot is used for one single-family detached
dwelling and its allowable accessory uses, and provided the easement complies
with the following:
            1.   The easement is recorded in the offices of the Register of
Deeds;
            2.   The minimum easement width is 20 feet;
            3.   The minimum separation between the easement and any other
platted access or right-of-way is at least 150 feet;
            4.   The location of the easement is recorded on a plat; and
            5.   The easement permits ingress, egress, regress and necessary
utilities to serve the lot.
      (2)   Compliance with street requirements. Development subject to the
standards in this section that includes construction activity affecting streets
or street rights-of-way shall also comply with the standards in
Article 7, Division 3, Streets and Sidewalks.
      (3)   Driveways.
         (a)   Driveways providing ingress or egress to a state-maintained or
private street shall be placed and constructed in accordance with the Policy on
Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highways adopted by the State
Department of Transportation (NCDOT), as amended.
         (b)   All new driveways connecting to state-maintained streets shall
obtain a driveway permit from NCDOT prior to the construction.
         (c)   Driveway configuration.
            1.   Vehicles can enter and exit from a lot without posing any
substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians, bicycles or vehicles traveling
on abutting streets.
            2.   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized.
            3.   Driveway radii shall be designed in accordance with the
NCDOT’s or the town’s specifications and shall not extend beyond side lot
lines.
            4.   No driveway serving an off-street parking area or providing
on-site circulation is permitted within any required landscaping area, but
driveways may be installed across these areas.
            5.   Driveways shall be as nearly perpendicular to the street
right-of-way as possible (see
Figure 34, Driveway Configuration).
            6.   Driveways shall line up with other driveways/streets across
the street, where practicable.
            7.   Driveways on corner lots shall provide access from the street
with less traffic, to the maximum extent practicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1783.png]
 
Figure 34 - Driveway Configuration
         (d)    Driveway spacing.
            1.   No portion of any driveway leading from a street shall be
closer than 100 feet to the corner of any adjacent street intersection measured
from the edge of the right-of-way.
            2.   On lots with less than 100 feet of lot width, the driveway
shall be located as far as practicable from the adjacent street intersection.
            3.   Except when configured as paired driveways, driveways serving
individual single-family detached dwellings, individual single-family attached
dwellings, duplex, triplex or quadruplex buildings shall be located at least 20
linear feet from any other driveway on the same or different lot. For the
purpose of this section, PAIRED DRIVEWAYS are up to two driveways, whether on
the same or different lots, where one side of a driveway is within five feet of
the side of the other driveway.
            4.   Except as provided in this subsection (D)(3), Driveways, no
two driveway access points, whether on the same or different lots, shall be
located within 50 feet of each other, to the maximum extent practicable.
         (e)   Driveway surfacing. New driveways established after the
effective date of these standards that abut a paved street shall be surfaced
with asphalt or six inches of concrete for a distance of at least five feet
from the edge of the right-of-way or the driveway radius point, whichever is
greater.
      (4)   Sight distance triangles.
         (a)   Corner lots and lots with driveways, alleys or other methods of
ingress/egress to a street shall include sight distance triangles to ensure
visibility for drivers and pedestrians moving through or in an intersection.
         (b)   Required sight distance triangles shall be configured in
accordance with
Table 10, Sight Distance (triangle) Requirements, below.
Table 10 - Sight Distance Requirements
Type of Intersection Minimum Sight Distance Triangle Required [1] [2]
Table 10 - Sight Distance Requirements
Type of Intersection                            Minimum Sight Distance
                                                Triangle Required [1] [2]
Intersection between 2 streets (public or       10/70 from all approaches
private)
Driveways serving parking lots                  10/70 from the street
                                                approaches
                     Single-family detached and
Driveways serving    attached dwellings         None
individual land uses (including duplexes)
without parking lots                            10/70 from street
                     All other uses of land     approaches, wherever
                                                possible
Notes:
[1] Sight distance triangles shall be an area between a point at the edge
of pavement of a proposed or existing street located 70 linear feet from
the intersection and a second point at the edge of the opposing street’s
edge of pavement located ten feet from the intersection (measuring from
edge of pavement required by Session Law 2021-121 § 3a, effective date
August 30, 2021).
[2] The NCDOT may require an alternative configuration.
 
         (c)   No planting, structure, fence, wall, slope, embankment, parked
vehicle or other obstruction to vision between the heights of two-and-one-half
feet and ten feet above the centerline grades of intersecting streets or
accessways may be located within a required sight distance triangle (see
Figure 35, Sight Distance Triangles).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1785.png]
 
Figure 35 - Sight Distance Triangle
      (5)    On-site pedestrian walkways. On-site pedestrian walkways that
minimize conflict between pedestrians and vehicles shall be provided on all
nonresidential, mixed use and multi-family development sites, and shall be
configured in accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   On-site pedestrian walkways shall connect building entrances to
off-street parking areas and to other building entrances on the same site (see
Figure 36, On-Site Pedestrian Walkways).
         (b)   Development subject to these standards shall provide at least
one connection to an existing or planned public sidewalk or existing greenway
via an on-site pedestrian walkway configured in accordance with these
standards. In cases where existing or planned sidewalks do not exist, at least
one on-site pedestrian connection shall continue to the right-of-way edge.
         (c)   Connections shall be made to all existing or planned adjacent
transit facilities, to the maximum extent practicable.
         (d)   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be paved with asphalt,
concrete or other all-weather material and shall be of contrasting color or
materials when crossing parking lot drive aisles.
         (e)   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be positively drained and
configured to avoid areas of pooling water.
         (f)   On-site pedestrian walkways shall be in compliance with
applicable state and federal requirements, including ADA requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1787.png]
 
Figure 36 - On-Site Pedestrian Walkways
      (6)    Compliance with requirements for sidewalks. Development subject to
the standards in this section shall comply with all applicable standards in the
Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual, §§
730, Roads, and
732, Sidewalks.
§ 611 ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   Except for single-family dwellings, all buildings and facilities used by the
general public shall be accessible to and usable by the physically handicapped
in accordance with the Building Code provisions as established by the state.
DIVISION 2. DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 620 COMMERCIAL BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. These commercial design standards supplement the
applicable zoning district and use-specific standards of this article and
provide minimum requirements for the design of commercial development. These
standards are intended to provide clarity on the town’s expectations for new
commercial development quality and appearance. More specifically, the purpose
of these standards is to:
      (1)   Implement the policy guidance from the comprehensive plan regarding
protection of the desired small-town community character;
      (2)   Assure a fair and consistent application of the commercial design
standards to new development and redevelopment;
      (3)   Foster increased compatibility between commercial development and
nearby residences;
      (4)   Encourage the maintenance of a village atmosphere; and
      (5)   Promote property values and protect existing public and private
investment.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall be applied to the
following forms of development and land use activities:
      (1)   New commercial development. The establishment of new principal
structures containing or intended for a commercial, office, personal service,
retail, restaurant or light industrial use type, as identified in §
527,
Table 8, Permitted Uses, found in
Article 5;
      (2)   Changes in use. Changes in use of an existing principal building or
development site where the new use is subject to these commercial design
standards, but no additions or expansions are proposed, shall comply with the
requirements in subsection (E) below, but are not required to comply with the
standards in subsection (F) below, Building configuration standards;
      (3)   Additions and expansions to existing development. Increases in an
existing commercial building’s floor area or a commercial site’s impervious
surface by 51% or more beyond that in existence on the effective date of these
standards shall require full compliance with these provisions; and
      (4)   Reconstruction of existing buildings. Reconstruction of an existing
commercial building shall be treated as new development for the purposes of
these standards.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The standards in this section shall not apply to the following
forms of development:
         (a)   Commercial development existing prior to effective date of these
standards unless subject to a change in use, reconstruction, addition or
expansion;
         (b)   Commercial development taking place as part of a bona fide farm;
         (c)   Commercial development subject to a historic landmark
designation or subject to standards applicable in a local Historic District;
         (d)   Development of civic, religious or fraternal organization use
types; and
         (e)   Adult uses and gaming establishments shall be exempted from the
transparency standards in subsection (F)(8) below, Transparency.
   (D)   Timing of review. Development subject to these standards shall be
reviewed for compliance at the time of site plan, special use permit or
conditional rezoning application review, as appropriate. In cases where a
development application is considered by more than one review authority, the
decision regarding compliance with these standards shall be made by the review
authority making the final decision on the application under review.
   (E)   Commercial site configuration standards. Development subject to these
commercial design standards shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Building placement.
         (a)   All principal and accessory buildings shall be set back at least
20 linear feet from the ultimate right-of-way boundary of any adjacent street,
except in the CB District where the setback from the rights-of-way is zero. The
ultimate right-of-way boundary location shall be as indicated in the town’s
adopted plans, the applicable comprehensive transportation plan adopted by
local metropolitan planning organization, if any, or as indicated by the NCDOT.
         (b)   In cases where the ultimate right-of-way boundary is not
identified, the building setback shall be measured from the centerline of the
existing right-of-way outwards for a minimum distance corresponding to one-half
of the currently specified right-of-way width plus 20 feet.
         (c)   All development subject to these standards shall have a maximum
setback of 50 feet from the ultimate right-of-way boundary of any adjacent
street.
      (2)   Outparcel development. Development on outparcels or pad sites
associated with a commercial development shall comply with the following
requirements (see
Figure 37, Outparcel Development).
         (a)   Spaces between buildings on outparcels or pad sites shall
include pedestrian amenities such as plazas, seating areas and gathering places
in addition to off-street parking spaces.
         (b)   Outparcel buildings on lots at street corners shall be located
and configured to define the corner through a combination of:
            1.   Locating the building as close to the rights-of-way as is
practicable;
            2.   Limiting surface parking between the building and the streets;
            3.   Providing a public gathering space adjacent to the corner; and
            4.   Distinctive roof form or other pedestrian features such as
porches, canopies or arcades.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1789.png]
 
Figure 37 - Outparcel Development
      (3)   On-site circulation.
         (a)   All driveways shall be constructed so that vehicles can enter
and exit from a lot without posing any substantial danger to themselves,
pedestrians, bicycles or vehicles traveling on abutting streets and that any
interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on abutting or
surrounding streets is minimized. In no instance shall a driveway be configured
so that a vehicle must back onto an arterial, collector or thoroughfare street.
         (b)   Driveways shall be as nearly perpendicular to the street right-
of-way as possible.
         (c)   In cases where two or more commercial uses are located on
adjacent lots along a street, the off-street parking lots serving the uses
shall be connected to one another so that a vehicle may travel from one
establishment to another without use of the street network (see
Figure 38, Parking Lot Connection).
         (d)   Where a required parking lot connection eliminates a required
landscape planting area or required off-street parking space, the landscaping
and off-street parking requirements shall be reduced to accommodate the parking
lot connection.
         (e)   Compliance with this standard shall be waived in cases where a
parking lot connection would create unsafe turning movements or pedestrian
conflicts.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1791.png]
 
Figure 38 - Parking Lot Connection
      (4)    Off-street parking location.
         (a)    The placement of all off-street parking to the side or rear of
the building it serves is strongly encouraged. Buildings of one story in height
may have up to one single-loaded row of off-street parking spaces between the
front facade of a building and the street it faces.
         (b)   Buildings of two stories in height may have up to two rows of
parking spaces between the front facade of a building and the street it faces
(see
Figure 39, Parking Placement).
         (c)   Multi-building developments shall be configured so that off-
street parking areas are internal to the site and located behind the buildings
located adjacent to streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1793.png]
 
Figure 39 - Parking Placement
      (5)   Signage.
         (a)   No flashing, moving or portable signs shall be permitted.
         (b)   In no instance shall a window sign or signage placed on or in a
window or transparent door obscure more than two square feet of the window or
door’s total area.
      (6)   Service areas.
         (a)   Off-street loading areas, service areas, refuse/recycling
collection areas and outdoor storage of equipment or raw materials shall be
located to the side or rear of a principal building. In addition, such features
shall be screened through the use of an opaque fence or wall of a minimum
height necessary to obscure views from on-site and off-site locations.
         (b)   Outdoor display of products available for sale may be located in
front of a principal building and are not required to be screened provided
these areas are physically accessible to patrons. Areas utilized for the
display of products for sale that are not physically accessible to patrons
shall be considered areas of outdoor storage and shall be located and screened
in accordance with these standards.
      (7)   Equipment screening.
         (a)   All ground-based and roof-mounted equipment shall be fully
screened from view from adjacent streets, parks, open space and residentially-
used lots (see
Figure 40, Rooftop Screening).
         (b)   Wall-mounted mechanical equipment mounted at heights over 36
inches from grade and measuring 16 inches or more in any dimension shall be
fully screened, concealed or camouflaged to minimize its appearance from
adjacent streets, parks, open space and residentially-used lots.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1795.png]
 
Figure 40 - Rooftop Screening
      (8)   Stormwater control measures.
         (a)   Stormwater control measures, including, but not limited to,
retention ponds and detention basins, shall either be configured as site
amenities or be fully screened from view on all sides by evergreen opaque
vegetation reaching a minimum height of six feet above grade within three years
of planting.
         (b)   Stormwater control measures (SCMs) shall be considered as site
amenities when all of the following are present:
            1.   They are not surrounded by a fence intended to exclude
pedestrians;
            2.   Finished grades around the SCM do not inhibit walking;
            3.   They include landscaping features such as trees and shrubs;
            4.   There is some form of central feature or focal point such as a
fountain; and
            5.   Seating or a walking path is provided adjacent to the SCM.
         (c)   Stormwater control measures shall comply with all applicable
State Department of Environmental Quality requirements.
      (9)   Utilities. New utility service, including electricity, required to
serve development subject to these standards shall be located underground.
Nothing in these standards shall be construed to require existing above-ground
utilities to be placed underground as part of new development.
   (F)   Building configuration standards. Buildings subject to these
commercial design standards shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Maximum building size. Individual principal buildings subject to
these standards shall maintain a maximum total floor area in accordance with
the following.
         (a)   Lots that front and are accessed by an arterial or thoroughfare
street may include up to one principal building with a maximum total floor area
of 40,000 square feet.
         (b)   Lots that front and are accessed by a collector street may
include up to one principal building with a maximum total floor area of 25,000
square feet.
         (c)   Lots that front and are accessed by a local street may include
up to one principal building with a maximum total floor area of 10,000 square
feet.
         (d)   Nothing shall limit the cumulative total amount of floor area
within a multiple building development, provided that the largest principal
building does not exceed the applicable maximum set forth in this section, and
provided that each additional building within the multi-building development is
no larger than 50% of the applicable maximum building size.
      (2)   Orientation.
         (a)   The primary entrance shall be architecturally and functionally
designed on the front facade facing the primary street (see
Figure 41, Building Orientation).
         (b)   Except for multi-building developments, such as shopping centers
or campus-style developments, the front facade of the principal structure shall
be parallel to the front lot line and street.
         (c)   Nothing shall limit a secondary entrance from facing an off-
street parking lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1797.png]
 
Figure 41 - Building Orientation
      (3)    Primary entrance.
         (a )    Building entrances shall be designated as a primary or a
secondary entrance by the applicant, but each principal building shall have at
least one primary entrance. Nothing shall limit a building from having multiple
primary entrances.
         (b)   Primary building entrances shall be visually prominent and shall
include at least three of the following features (see
Figure 42, Primary Building Entrances):
            1.   Changes in building material or color;
            2.   Changes in paving or walking surface materials;
            3.   A significant architectural feature that extends above the
primary roof height;
            4.   A projection or recess of at least five feet beyond the
adjacent wall plane;
            5.   Outdoor pedestrian gathering or seating areas capable of
serving at least five people at the same time;
            6.   A canopy, awning, portico, archway, arcade or other covering
that extends outwards from the building wall by at least five feet;
            7.   Glazing that extends upwards for at least 75% of the
building’s height proximate to the entrance door(s);
            8.   Architectural detailing around the entryway such as tilework,
entablature or integrated moldings; or
            9.   Fountains, artwork or landscaping plantings in raised planters
immediately adjacent to the entrance door(s).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1799.png]
 
Figure 42 - Primary Building Entrances
      (4)   Exterior materials.
         (a)   Configuration.
            1.   Where two or more materials are proposed on a building facade,
the heavier or more massive material (like stone) shall be located below the
lighter or less massive material (stucco).
            2.   Heavier details may be permitted as details on corners or
around doors and windows.
            3.   Material changes shall take place at locations such as the
intersection of building wings, the intersection of differing storefronts or
leaseholds, interior corners or other logical locations.
            4.   Material changes shall not take place at outside corners and
material returns shall be included to a logical termination point past an
exterior building corner such as a bump-out, building wing or change in wall
direction (see
Figure 43, Commercial Building Materials).
         (b)   Prohibited materials.   The following materials shall be
prohibited on any primary or secondary building facade walls:
            1.   Untextured tilt-up concrete panels;
            2.   Pre-fabricated steel panels;
            3.   Corrugated sheet metal;
            4.   Smooth-face concrete blocks;
            5.   Vinyl siding, soffit or fascia;
            6.   Synthetic stucco within two feet of the grade;
            7.   Asphalt shingles or siding; or
            8.   Mirrored glass.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1801.png]
 
Figure 43 - Commercial Building Materials
         (c)   Color.
            1.   Primary colors: Overly bright, neon or “day-glow” colors shall
not be used as primary exterior building colors. Nothing shall limit
traditional community material colors.
            2.   Accent colors: Building trim and accent areas may feature
brighter colors, including primary colors, but these colors may not comprise
more than 15% of any building facade.
         (d)   Compatibility in multi-building developments. Buildings on
outparcels or pad sites shall incorporate materials that are similar to and
compatible with those used on the primary buildings in the development.
Corporate or prototypical architecture shall be reconfigured as necessary in
order to comply with this standard.
      (5)   Building articulation. Buildings subject to these standards shall
be configured so that no single facade visible from a street shall extend for
longer than 35 linear feet without inclusion of one or more of the following
features:
         (a)   The use of projections or recesses in the building facade wall
with a depth of between 18 inches and 36 inches from the primary facade plane
and a minimum span of eight feet (see
Figure 44, Commercial Building Articulation);
         (b)   The use of columns, pilasters or other architectural detail
harmonious with the general design of the structure with a minimum width of
eight inches and spaced no less than every ten feet on-center;
         (c)   Distinct changes in building materials or colors from grade to
the roof; or
         (d)   A single vertical accent or focal point extending well above the
primary roofline, such as a tower feature, located on a prominent building
corner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1803.png]
 
Figure 44 - Commercial Building Articulation
      (6)   Roof form.
         (a)   Roof pitches less than 3:12 and flat roofs shall require a
parapet wall on all building sides visible from a street.
         (b)   Parapet walls, when provided, shall fully screen all rooftop
mechanical equipment from view from the street and shall include decorative
cornices or caps.
         (c)   A pitched roof shall have eaves that extend a minimum of 12
inches beyond the building face.
         (d)   Gable roofs shall incorporate roof rakes that project outwards a
minimum of at least 12 inches from the building face.
      (7)   Canopies. Except for canopies associated with fuel sales, overhead
canopies intended to cover the vehicles of patrons shall be configured in
accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   The total number of canopies shall be limited to one per
building;
         (b)   The canopy shall be physically connected to the principal
structure;
         (c)   The canopy shall be located to the side or rear of the
structure, or configured so that it has the appearance of being enclosed by
building walls on at least two sides;
         (d)   The canopy shall be configured of consistent or complimentary
materials and colors as the primary exterior materials, including canopy
supports;
         (e)   The canopy shall be subject to maximum height standards for
buildings in the zoning district where located; and
         (f)   Any exterior lighting from under the canopy shall be configured
so that the source of illumination (the bulb) is recessed into the canopy and
is not visible from off- site areas.
      (8)    Transparency.
         (a)     Buildings subject to these standards shall be configured so
that building facades visible from streets shall include a window or functional
general access doorway at least every 20 feet along the facade (see
Figure 45, Commercial Transparency). False windows or display casements are an
allowable alternative, as approved by the Town Planner.
         (b)   At least 25% of the first ten feet in height of a facade facing
a street shall be transparent.
         (c)   Ventilation grates or emergency exit doors located at the first-
floor level oriented toward a street shall be decorative.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1805.png]
 
Figure 45 - Commercial Transparency
      (9)   Lighting.
         (a)   Buildings subject to these standards shall not include neon
lighting that is visible from off-site areas.
         (b)   In no instance shall any exterior lighting flash, blink or give
the appearance of movement.
         (c)   LED lighting strips around windows or doors are prohibited on
the building exterior or within the interior if the lighting strip is visible
from off-site areas.
§ 621 MULTI-FAMILY DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. These multi-family residential design standards
supplement the applicable zoning district and use-specific standards of this
article by providing the minimum requirements for design and configuration of
multi-family development within the town’s jurisdiction. They are intended to:
      (1)   Ensure multi-family development takes place in a manner consistent
with the context, scale and proportion of its surroundings;
      (2)   Promote greater compatibility between new multi-family development
and other allowable use types, particularly adjacent residential single-family
detached dwellings;
      (3)   Establish expectations for minimum level of quality for multi-
family development;
      (4)   Encourage creativity in design and promote individual project
identity;
      (5)   Create neighborhoods with enhanced architectural and visual
interest; and
      (6)   Preserve property values and protect public and private investment.
   (B)   Applicability. Except where expressly exempted in writing in this
article, the standards in this section shall apply to the following forms of
development:
      (1)   New multi-family dwellings;
      (2)   New triplex and quadplex dwellings;
      (3)   New multi-unit residential structures within a continuing care
retirement community use type; and
      (4)   New assisted living facilities and nursing homes.
   (C)   Exemptions. Developments built under the State One- and Two-Family
Building Code shall be exempted from subsections (E)(3)(c) and (F) below and
these standards:
      (1)   Single-family attached development, unless subject to voluntary
consent by the landowner;
      (2)   Duplex dwellings, unless subject to voluntary consent by the
landowner;
      (3)   Townhouses, unless subject to voluntary consent by the landowner;
      (4)   Renovation or redevelopment of existing multi-family structures;
and
      (5)   Routine maintenance and repairs.
   (D)   Timing of review. Development subject to these standards shall be
reviewed for compliance at the time of site plan, or special use permit review,
as appropriate. In cases where a development application is considered by more
than one review authority, the decision regarding compliance with these
standards shall be made by the review authority making the final decision on
the application under review.
   (E)   Site design requirements.
      (1)   Street network.
         (a)   On sites including new streets, an interconnected network of
streets shall be provided, to the maximum extent practicable, and streets shall
connect to adjacent existing streets outside of the development.
         (b)   Vehicular driveways into a development with ten or more dwelling
units shall be at least 100 feet away from any major intersection(s) to the
maximum extent practicable.
         (c)   Driveways shall be consolidated in order to reduce curb cuts, to
the maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   Building orientation.
         (a)   Buildings that abut streets shall be oriented parallel to the
street they front rather than being oriented at an angle to the street.
         (b)   On corner lots, the long axis of the building shall be parallel
to the longest lot frontage unless such orientation is incompatible with
adjacent, existing development along the same street (see
Figure 46, Multi-Family Building Orientation).
         (c)   Buildings within multiple-building developments shall be
clustered in order to define open space recreation areas and development entry
points.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1807.png]
 
Figure 46 - Multi-family Building Orientation
      (3 )    Accessory structures. Accessory uses and structures associated
with a development subject to these standards shall comply with the following.
         (a)   Street-facing detached garages on corner lots shall be located
to the side or rear of buildings.
         (b)   Access to accessory structures (such as garages, carports,
storage areas and the like) shall be provided from alleys or secondary streets
to the maximum extent practicable.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall include exterior materials, colors and
roof form designed to be consistent with the principal structure.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall not physically obstruct pedestrian
entrances.
         (e)   Centralized refuse collection containers, if provided, shall be
located in an enclosed area located to the rear of principal buildings.
      (4)   Site features.
         (a)   Except for nursing homes, development subject to these standards
shall not include a gate or obstruction that blocks access to the site for
vehicles, bicycles or pedestrians.
         (b)   Off-street parking serving guests shall be evenly distributed
throughout the development.
         (c)   Shared solid waste facilities shall be evenly distributed
throughout the development or be centrally located and fully screened from all
on-site and off-site views.
         (d)   Detached garages or carports shall not be located between a
principal building and the street it faces.
         (e)   New utilities shall be provided underground, and utility vaults
shall be clustered in areas outside of required landscaping.
   (F)   Building design requirements.
      (1)   Building entrances.
         (a)   The facades of buildings abutting streets shall be configured so
that entryways to individual dwelling units or shared entrances face the
street.
         (b)   Access to upper-floor dwelling units shall be obtained from
shared internal entries. In no instance shall walkways to individual upper-
story dwelling units take place on the exterior of the building.
         (c)   Individual ground-floor and shared entryways shall be sheltered
from the weather either by:
            1.   Recessing the entrance at least three feet to the inside of
the primary ground floor facade plane; or
            2.   Inclusion of an overhead architectural treatment that extends
outward at least three feet from the primary facade plane.
      (2)   Building facades.
         (a)   Buildings subject to these standards shall maintain a consistent
level of architectural detailing and composition on each building facade facing
a street.
         (b)   Building facades facing streets shall provide a minimum of three
of the following architectural elements (see
Figure 47, Multi-Family Building Facades):
            1.   A covered porch or terrace;
            2.   One or more dormer windows or cupolas;
            3.   Eyebrow windows;
            4.   Awnings or overhangs;
            5.   Decorative moldings;
            6.   Shutters;
            7.   Pillars, posts or pilasters;
            8.   One or more bay windows with a minimum 12-inch projection from
the facade plane;
            9.   Multiple windows with a minimum of four-inch-wide trim;
            10.   Corniced parapets;
            11.   Eaves with a minimum of four-inch-wide trim;
            12.   Integral planters that incorporate landscaped areas and/or
places for sitting;
            13.   Garage entries, loading and service entries, utility rooms,
stairs, elevators or similar features shall not occupy more than 20% of the
width of a building facade facing a street;
            14.   Attached street-facing garages serving individual dwelling
units shall be recessed at least three feet inwards from the primary first
floor facade plane or be associated with an upper-story projection that exists
above the garage; and
            15.   Developments with three or more principal buildings shall
provide variation in building size, shape, height, color and roofline in a
manner that allows different buildings to be distinguished from one another.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1809.png]
 
Figure 47 - Multi-family Building Facades
      (3)     Buildi ng massing.
         (a)    Upper story facade walls shall not project beyon d the ground
floor footprint except to accom modate bump-outs with windo ws.
         (b)    In the case of two-story buildi ngs, the exterior facade walls
of the second floor shall be in line with or set back from the first floor
facade walls (see
Figure 48, Multi-Family Building Massing).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1811.png]
 
Figure 48 - Multi-family Building Massing
      ( 4)    Building articulat ion.
         (a)   Street-facing building facades shall be articulated with wall
offsets, in the form of recesses or projections from the primary facade plane,
of at least two feet for every 35 linear feet of facade frontage (see
Figure 49, Multi-Family Facade Articulation).
         (b)   Where provided, projections or recesses shall extend from the
grade to the top of the highest story in line with the ground floor footprint.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1813.png]
 
Figure 49 Multi-family Façade Articulation
      (5)    Building height.
         (a)    Buildin gs subject to the standards of this section shall have
a maximum height of two stories or 18 feet within 100 feet of a lot with an
existing single-family detached residential dwelling, without an intervening
street (see
Figure 50, Multi-Family Building Height).
         (b)   Building stories that are 75% or more below the finished grade
at the front of the lot shall not be counted towards the number of allowable
stories.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1815.png]
 
Figure 50 - Multi-family Building Height
      (6)    Roof form. Development shall incorporate roof pitches between 3:12
and 12:12 or shall incorporate parapet walls with a dimensional cornice around
a flat roof. Alternative roof forms or pitches are encouraged for small roof
sections over porches, entryways or similar features. Buildings with eaves
shall be configured such that no single horizontal eave continues for more than
60 linear feet without being broken up by a gable, building projection and
articulation feature. Buildings with overhanging eaves and roof rakes shall
extend at least six inches past supporting walls.
      (7)   Building materials and colors.
         (a)   Configuration. Buildings subject to these standards shall
include at least two primary exterior materials on any single building. Changes
in colors and materials shall take place at internal corners or in logical
locations, such as: building wings, bays, bump-outs or recesses (see
Figure 51, Multi-Family Building Materials). In no instance shall exterior
materials or colors change at outside corners. Heavier or more bulky exterior
materials shall be located beneath or below lighter materials.
         (b)   Prohibited materials. The following materials shall be
prohibited on any facade facing a street, open space or district intended
primarily for single-family detached development:
            1.   Smooth-faced concrete block;
            2.   Corrugated metal siding; or
            3.   Synthetic stucco within two feet of the grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1817.png]
 
Figure 51 - Multi-family Building Materials
§ 622 SITE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)    Intent. It is the intent of this article to pro vide per formance sta
ndards to ens ure that de velopment wit hin the town pla nning jur isdiction
will be designed, arranged and constructed in a safe, orderly and visually
harmonious manner, and will reflect the basic character of the development site
and its immediate surroundings as well as the nature of the proposed uses of
the site.
   (B)   Applicability. Except where otherwise specifically provided in this
article, no land or structure shall be used or occupied, and no grading
excavation, removal of soil, clearing a site or placing fill shall take place
on land contemplated for development, and no structure, or part of a structure,
shall be constructed, erected, altered, renovated or moved except in compliance
with the standards specified in this article and as shown on a sketch or site
plan approved by the town.
   (C)   General site arrangement and criteria.
      (1)   Developments shall be arranged so as to be visually harmonious both
within the development site and in relation to adjacent developments. Site
design elements of the development shall be integrated to the degree of their
compatibility with each other and shall be separated to the degree of their
incompatibility.
      (2)   All site plans shall demonstrate a high quality of overall site
design and in the design and construction of site elements, including
appropriate consideration of the relationship and balance among site elements,
the relationship of the development to natural features, neighboring
developments and access and circulation systems, retention of natural
vegetation, minimal alteration of natural topography, mitigation of erosion and
sedimentation, mitigation of stormwater drainage and flooding, arrangements and
orientation of buildings and amenities in relation to each other and to
neighboring streets, landscaping, preservation or enhancement of vistas and
mitigation of traffic impacts. Structures shall be placed and arranged so as
not to adversely affect adjacent property.
      (3)   Adverse effects shall include, but are not limited to, the removal
of lateral support, the creation of hazard, nuisance, danger or inconvenience,
unreasonable loss of light and air or unreasonable loss of privacy or views.
Where standards contradict, the stricter standard shall apply.
   (D)   Site design. All site designs shall address design elements that
include landscape preservation, location of buildings, drives, parking and
circulation, pedestrian and bicycles facilities and site drainage within the
physical constraints of a particular site. The site design shall adequately
address the following key site design objectives:
      (1)   Preserves natural land contours and natural drainageways, whenever
possible;
      (2)   Is compatible with the positive character of the surrounding area
in terms of both existing character and desired future character;
      (3)   Where possible, incorporates significant tree masses and/or
specimen trees as an integral design factor;
      (4)   Minimizes harm and disruption to existing plant and animal life;
      (5)   Sets aside areas whose physical conditions make them unsuitable for
development as conservation areas or as open space;
      (6)   Utilizes the adopted town’s bicycle and pedestrian plan (if any)
and the State Department of Transportation Complete Streets Policy (latest
edition). Reference: https://www.ncdot.gov/divisions/ bike-ped/Documents/2019-
08-28-complete-streets-policy.pdf; and
      (7)   Follows the town’s adopted plans, including, but not limited to,
the comprehensive plan.
DIVISION 3. EXTERIOR LIGHTING
§ 630 OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   In developments contemplating the use of outdoor lighting to ensure
the security of property and the safety of persons using such development,
streets, sidewalks and facilities, all principal entrances to the development
and internal areas, as appropriate, should be sufficiently lighted to ensure
the safety of residents and the security of the building.
   (B)   All streets within a major subdivision, multi-family development,
multi-building commercial development or manufactured home park shall
incorporate a street lighting system to ensure the security of property and the
safety of persons using such development, streets, driveways and facilities.
   (C)   Down lighting shall be provided where possible. Overflow lighting
shall be prohibited, and all light pollution shall be minimized to the maximum
extent practical.
   (D)   All development shall incorporate street lighting and signs per the
standards of §
631, Streetlights, which are adopted by reference as if incorporated fully
herein to ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using such
development, streets, driveways and facilities.
§ 631 STREETLIGHTS.
   (A)   Street lighting service levels.
      (1)   It is the town’s objective to provide street lighting in accordance
with the Illumination Engineering Society (IES) standards for various classes
of streets. These nationally recognized standards acknowledge such key
variables as use of streets, prevalence of entering and exiting rights-of-way,
parking and existing physical conditions on or near the streets. Standards
relate to amount of light, noted in terms of foot-candles, and uniformity of
light, stated as a ratio of average to minimum foot-candles along a given
distance. These standards result in service levels that increase according to
use. Higher levels of lighting correspond to higher usage by motorists and/or
pedestrians.
      (2)   Allowances are made for differences in the intensity of use and
safety needs. Selective reduction of service levels for certain classes of
streets, primarily those classed as residential, is necessary because of high
costs involved with conversion to full IES standards.
   (B)   Street classifications. IES’s Illumination Guide groups streets into
different classes: expressway; commercial; intermediate; and residential. These
area classes are further subdivided into major, collector and local categories
with standards established for each. These categories correspond to town street
classifications, with the IES “major” category corresponding to the town’s
“arterial” classification.
   (C)   Street lighting guidelines. Provision of lighting along streets in
town enhances the safe movement of motorists, pedestrians and other users of
public rights-of-way. The town’s streetlight system is designed to support the
following guidelines.
      (1)   IES standards should be used town-wide as the basis for
establishment of lighting levels for new lighting installation along
nonresidential streets. These streets should be lighted to 100% of IES
standards. Residential streets should be lighted at 220-foot intervals, with
adjustments as needed to consider local conditions such as topography, traffic
volumes, number of intersections, crime rates and other factors. Town streets
are being classified based on operational definitions of lighting by IES and
consistent with street classifications as referenced in this section. Priority
for implementation will be based on use, with commercial, intermediate and
residential area classes being converted in that order.
      (2)   High-pressure sodium luminaries should be installed on all streets,
with lamps suggested by IES according to classification. The town standard for
residential street lighting is a typical 9,500 lumen economical traditional
luminaries, mounted on a 12-foot fiberglass pole or a 9,500-lumen cut-off cobra
luminary, mounted on a 25-foot wood pole. Exceptions to this standard may be
approved by the Town Planner when a duly authorized officer of a neighborhood
group requests another configuration of hardware, provided any additional
hardware costs are paid by the developer or representative prior to
installation of the lights; and provided the alternative configuration results
in the same operational costs to the town as the town standard fixtures.
      (3)   Underground wiring should be provided for all new fixture
installations.
      (4)   The Town Planner will determine the circumstances in which
implementation guidelines may be waived. Examples include, but are not limited
to: adjustments for areas with particularly high incidence of crime;
significant public demand for additional services; and physical conditions
associated with conversion of existing lighting. If there are permanent
overhead utility lines, the Town Planner may waive the requirement for
underground lines for new lights.
   (D)   Street lighting standards. The following standards and specifications
are to assist developers in the placement and selection of streetlights for use
on streets classified as residential only. For information on lighting for
streets with higher classifications, contact the Town Planner. Where
appropriate, a street lighting plan should be prepared as a part of a
development application for approval by the Town Planner.
      (1)   Placement.
         (a)   Street lights should be located an average of 220 feet apart. A
minimum of one streetlight should be located at every intersection and at the
end of every cul-de-sac.
         (b)   Where possible, any streetlight not located at an intersection
should be located on a property line.
         (c)   On streets with a width of 44 feet or greater (back of curb to
back of curb), streetlights should be staggered on either side of the street.
         (d)   On streets with a lesser width, streetlights should be located
on the side with a sidewalk if only one sidewalk exists. They should be
staggered if sidewalks do not exist or if there are sidewalks on both sides of
the street.
         (e)   Streetlights should be located within the road right-of-way a
minimum of three feet from the back of curb or edge of road pavement.
         (f)   Streetlights should be located a minimum of three feet from the
edge of any paved sidewalk.
      (2)   Fixture selection.
         (a)   The town’s standard residential lighting fixture is the 9,500
lumen “economical traditional” luminaire provided by Duke Energy Progress
Company. The luminaire should be mounted on a 12-foot black fiberglass pole.
         (b)   A 9,500-lumen cut-off lens cobra fixture can also be used when
mounted on a 25-foot wooden pole.
         (c)   Other ornamental fixtures may be selected if they provide a
comparable lighting level and are approved by the town. If there are any
additional costs for installation and maintenance, the developer will pay “up
front” such costs.
§ 632 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   All nonresidential, mixed use, manufactured home parks and multi-family
development shall be designed to provide safe, convenient and efficient
lighting for pedestrians and vehicles. Lighting shall be designed in a
consistent and coordinated manner for the entire site. The lighting and
lighting fixtures shall be integrated and designed to enhance the visual impact
of the project on the community and, where practicable, should be designed to
blend into the surrounding landscape. Lighting design and installation shall
ensure that lighting accomplishes on-site lighting needs without intrusion on
adjoining properties.
   (A)   Lighting plan. A site lighting plan shall be required as part of the
application and site plan review for all nonresidential, mixed use and multi-
family developments exceeding four dwelling units.
   (B)   Site lighting design requirements. Lighting shall be used to provide
safety while accenting key architectural elements and to emphasize landscape
features. Light fixtures shall be designed as an integral design element that
complements the design of the project. This can be accomplished through style,
material or color. All lighting fixtures designed or placed to illuminate any
portion of a site shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Fixture (luminaire). The light source shall be completely concealed
behind an opaque surface and recessed within an opaque housing and shall not be
visible from any street right-of-way or adjoining land. Overhead lighting
fixtures shall be designed to prevent light from emitting upwards toward the
sky. Under-canopy lighting fixtures should be completely recessed within the
canopy.
      (2)   Fixture height. Lighting fixtures shall be a maximum of 30 feet in
height within the parking lot and shall be a maximum of 15 feet in height
within non-vehicular pedestrian areas. Pedestrian scale lighting at a height
not exceeding 12 feet is encouraged. All light fixtures located within 50 feet
of any adjacent residential use or residentially zoned property boundary shall
not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (3)   Light source (lamp). Incandescent, florescent, metal halide or
color corrected high-pressure sodium are preferred. The Town Planner shall have
the authority to approve other lamp types, including light emitting diodes
(LEDS and fiber optics), provided the color emitted is similar to the preferred
types. Non-color corrected high pressure sodium lamps are prohibited. The same
light source type must be used for the same or similar types of lighting on any
one site throughout any development.
      (4)   Mounting. Fixtures shall be mounted in such a manner that the cone
of light is contained on-site and does not cross any lot line of the site.
      (5)   Limit lighting to periods of activity. Where practicable, the use
of sensor technologies, timers or other means to activate lighting during times
when it will be needed may be required by the Town Planner to conserve energy,
provide safety and promote compatibility between different land uses.
   (C)   Illumination levels. All site lighting shall be designed so that the
level of illumination as measured in foot-candles (fc) at any one point meets
the standards in
Table 11 below, with minimum and maximum levels measured on the pavement within
the lighted area and average level (the overall generalized ambient light
level) measured as a not-to-exceed value calculated using only the area of the
site intended to receive illumination.
Table 11 - Light Levels (in Foot-Candles) [1]
Type of Lighting Minimum Average Maximum
Table 11 - Light Levels (in Foot-Candles) [1]
Type of Lighting                           Minimum Average Maximum
Building entrances                         1.0     5.0     15.0
Parking lots                               0.2     1.0     8.0
Storage areas (security lighting)          0.2     1.0     10.0
Walkways, landscape or decorative lighting 0.2     0.8     5.0
Notes:
[1] The maximum level of illumination at the outer perimeter lot lines of
the site or project shall be 0.5 foot-candles when abutting a residential
zoning district and 5 foot-candles when abutting all other districts and/or
streets
 
   (D)   Excessive illumination. Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily
illuminates and substantially interferes with the use or enjoyment of any other
property is prohibited. Lighting unnecessarily illuminates another lot if it
exceeds the requirements of this subsection (D).
      (1)   Lighting shall not be oriented to direct glare or excessive
illumination onto streets in a manner that may distract or interfere with the
vision of drivers on such streets.
      (2)   Fixtures used to accent landscaping or art shall be located, aimed
or shielded to minimize light spill into the night sky.
      (3)   Blinking or flashing lights shall be prohibited unless the lights
are required as a safety feature.
   (E)   Illuminated tubing. Any exterior illuminated tubing or strings of
lights, including, but not limited to, those outlining property lines,
building, structures, open sales areas, rooflines, doors, window or the edges
of walls except holiday lights are prohibited.
   (F)   Nonconforming lighting.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures existing as of the date of adoption of the
ordinance from which this section is derived may remain and shall be considered
lawful nonconforming structures.
      (2)   Modifications, replacement or expansions shall conform to the
standards of this section.
DIVISION 4. FENCES AND WALLS
§ 640 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   These standards provide development standards for permanent fences and
privacy walls on individual lots or development sites. These standards are
proposed to protect the health and safety of the public while balancing the
practical uses for fencing and walls like security and privacy with the need
for aesthetic quality and a high-quality built environment. More specifically,
these standards are intended to:
   (A)   Provide for privacy and security on individual lots;
   (B)   Ensure proper construction techniques are followed and that fences and
walls are maintained in good repair;
   (C)   Assist with the transition between public and private spaces; and
   (D)   Ensure fencing and walls are consistent with the town’s requirements.
§ 641 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Generally. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
construction or replacement of all fences, screening walls or retaining walls.
A fence or wall may only be erected in accordance with the standards in this
section.
   (B)   Pre-existing development. Lawfully-established fences and walls
established prior to October 6, 1997, that do not comply with these standards
shall be subject to the applicable standards in
Article 8, Nonconformities.
   (C)   A zoning compliance certificate is required for the construction of
all fences except those exempted by §
642, Exemptions. No charge will be made for a zoning compliance certificate
that is sought only to build a fence.
§ 642 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the standards in this section:
   (A)   Bona fide farms and agricultural use types on lots subject to present-
use value taxation;
   (B)   Fences under two feet in height; and
   (C)   Temporary fences for construction sites, including, but not limited
to: fencing necessary for soil erosion and sedimentation control and tree
protection.
§ 643 LOCATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. No fence or wall shall:
      (1)   Be located within the public right-of-way (except for public fences
or walls, or as needed for retention of soil);
      (2)   Impede visibility of the required property address number; or
      (3)   Block pedestrian access from doors or windows.
   (B)   Easements. In cases where a fence or wall is proposed within an
easement, the applicant shall provide evidence of the easement owner’s consent
regarding placement of the fence or wall. The landowner shall remain solely
liable for any repair or replacement if any portion of the fence or wall
located within a required easement is damaged during maintenance or
construction activities within the easement by the easement owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   Block drainage. Fences or walls shall not alter or impede the natural
flow of water in any stream, creek, drainage swale or ditch.
   (D)   Obstructions at intersections. Except for necessary retaining walls,
no fence or wall shall be located within a required sight distance triangle.
   (E)   Required setbacks. Fences or walls may be located within required
setbacks, but in all cases shall be located at least two feet from the property
line.
   (F)   Required landscaping areas. Fences or walls may be located in required
landscaping areas, provided the screening function of the landscaping area is
maintained.
§ 644 MAXIMUM HEIGHT.
   (A)   Residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Fences and walls not over four feet high may project into or may
enclose any front yard.
      (2)   Side and rear yards may be enclosed by fences or walls up to six
feet in height.
      (3)   In cases where a fence or wall is outside a required setback or
required landscaping area, it may exceed the maximum height in this section,
but in no case shall it exceed the height of the principal building on the lot.
   (B)   Nonresidential and agricultural districts. A solid or open fence or
wall may be erected to a maximum height of ten feet within any setback area.
§ 645 WIND LOADING.
   All fencing and walls subject to the standards of this section shall be
constructed in accordance with the State Building Code and shall be designed
and constructed in order to meet the minimum applicable wind loading standards
for the town as identified in the State Building Code or other supporting
documents.
§ 646 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Fences and walls shall be designed, constructed and maintained to
ensure a minimum useful life of at least ten years. In no instance shall tarps
or silt fencing remain on a lot or site after completion of construction.
   (B)   The following materials shall be prohibited for use as a part of a
fence or wall: wooden pallets; tires; debris; junk; rolled plastic; sheet
metal; untreated or unpainted plywood, and readily flammable material or waste
materials shall be prohibited, unless the materials have been recycled and
reprocessed, for marketing to the general public as building materials designed
to resemble new building materials (e.g., picket fencing made from recycled
plastic and fiber).
§ 647 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Any fence or wall which, through neglect, lack of repair, type or
manner of construction, method of placement or otherwise, constitutes a hazard
or endangers any person, animal or property is in violation of this article.
   (B)   When a fence or wall is in violation of this article, the Town Planner
shall require the owner or occupant of the property upon which the fence or
wall is located to repair, replace or demolish the fence or wall in accordance
with all applicable standards in this article.
DIVISION 5. LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
§ 650 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of these provisions is to establish
minimum requirements for the provision and maintenance of functionally
adequate, attractive screening and buffering of buildings, site features and
off-street parking areas. These standards are intended to:
      (1)   Promote and increase design compatibility between different land
uses, while ensuring attractive views from streets and adjacent properties;
      (2)   Assist in delineating separations of spaces, structures, uses and
activities on a site, or between adjacent sites; and
      (3)   Shield adjacent properties from potentially adverse external
impacts of adjacent land uses and activities.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section apply to the following
forms of development.
      (1)   New principal buildings or uses. New principal buildings or open
uses of land, including publicly-owned buildings or sites, constructed,
reconstructed or established after the effective date of these standards.
      (2)   Improvements and expansions. Improvements and expansions of
principal buildings, parking areas or open uses of land by 20% or more shall
require the development to fully comply with these standards prior to
occupancy.
      (3)   Multi-phase development. Multi-family, nonresidential and mixed use
development that is planned and developed in phases shall be required to
install landscaping that is associated with the active phase or phases only,
unless an alternative arrangement is otherwise agreed to by the Town Planner.
An active phase of a development is the one that is subject to permitted and
ongoing development activity.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following forms of development are exempted from these
standards:
      (1)   Changes to an existing or development of a new proposed single-
family detached or duplex dwelling on a residentially-zoned lot;
      (2)   Routine maintenance of existing vegetation, such as watering and
fertilizing;
      (3)   The removal of dead trees and shrubs, or trees and shrubs that have
been diagnosed and determined to be diseased beyond treatment, provided the
screening function of the landscaping is maintained or re-established. Failure
to maintain the screening function of a required landscaping area is a
violation of this article;
      (4)   Pruning of vegetation, provided the screening function of the
required landscaping is maintained. Severe pruning is a violation of this
article and shall require replacement of required vegetation; and
      (5)   Repaving or restriping of a parking lot, provided there is no
increase in parking lot size or the number of parking spaces.
   (D)   Timing of review. Development subject to these standards shall be
reviewed for compliance at the time of site plan, or special use permit, or
application review, as appropriate. In cases where a development application is
considered by more than one review authority, the decision regarding compliance
with these standards shall be made by the review authority making the final
decision on the application under review.
   (E)   Landscape plan required.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   A landscape plan depicting how required landscaping will be
planted in accordance with these standards shall be included with an
application for site plan, preliminary plat or zoning compliance, as
appropriate, to ensure compliance with this section.
         (b)   The landscape plan shall be approved prior to, or concurrent
with, the approval of a site plan, preliminary plat or the issuance of a zoning
compliance permit.
         (c)   A list of recommended plants is found in
Article 11, Division 2, Recommended Plants List.
         (d)   A landscape plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
            1.   Location of required planting material;
            2.   Groupings or clusters of planting material, if proposed;
            3.   Identification of required plants, including their scientific
names;
            4.   Minimum and maximum dimensions of all planting yard areas;
            5.   Calculations determining the number of canopy trees,
understory trees and shrubs required;
            6.   Locations, species, sizes and methods of protection during
construction for existing vegetation to be retained and counted towards minimum
landscaping requirements; and
            7.   Existing topography, or proposed topography where site grading
is proposed to occur.
      (2)   Phased development. Development subject to these standards that is
planned in phases may submit a landscape plan for the entire development, or
separate landscape plans for each phase, which shall be approved prior to
approval of the final plat.
      (3)   Landscaping in a stormwater retention or detention pond. If trees
or shrubs are proposed on or within 20 feet of the embankment of a stormwater
retention or detention pond, a landscape plan showing the retention or
detention pond and surrounding landscaping must be submitted for review to
determine that the safety and functionality of the device will not be
compromised by the trees or shrubs.
   (F)   Plant material specifications. See
Article 11, Division 2, for a list of recommended plants.
      (1)   Canopy tree size. Canopy trees shall have a minimum height at
maturity of 40 feet and a minimum crown width of 30 feet (see
Figure 52, Plant Material Specifications). All canopy trees shall have a
minimum height of eight feet, or more, and a minimum caliper size of two
inches, or more, at planting. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet in
height at planting.
      (2)   Understory tree size.
         (a)   Understory trees shall have a minimum height at maturity of 15
to 40 feet, except that trees to be placed below overhead utility lines may not
exceed a mature height of 20 feet (see
Figure 52, Plant Material Specifications).
         (b)   All understory trees shall have a minimum height of four feet,
or more, and a minimum caliper size of one and one-half inches, or more, at
planting.
         (c)   Nothing shall limit the use of multi-stemmed understory trees
provided that 25% or more of the leaders meet these requirements.
      (3)   Shrub size. All shrubs shall be at least a three-gallon size and
have a minimum height or spread of 18 inches at the time of planting (see
Figure 52, Plant Material Specifications).
         (a)   Shrubs shall reach a minimum height of 36 inches and a spread of
30 inches within three years of planting.
         (b)   Decorative grasses may be proposed as a substitute for shrubs,
provided the grasses meet the height and spread requirements and are approved
by the Town Planner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1819.png]
 
Figure 52 - Plant Material Specifications
      (4)   Species.
         (a)    Plant materials shall be selected in accordance with the town
plant list (See
Article 11, Division 2, Recommended Plants List).
         (b)    Required landscaping materials shall be cold-hardy for the
location where planted.
         (c)   Plant species used in required landscaping areas must be native
species or species of a locally-adapted nature. Other species require approval
by the Town Planner.
      (5)   Stabilization.
         (a)   Required landscaping areas shall be stabilized and maintained
with vegetative cover, mulch, decorative gravel, cinders or other approved
materials to prevent soil erosion and allow rainwater infiltration.
         (b)   Required landscaping areas with slopes of 15% or more shall be
stabilized with vegetative cover (not mulch or gravel) designed to minimize
erosion. Required vegetative cover shall be established and functional prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   Use of landscape fabric on slopes of 15% or more is discouraged.
   (G)   Landscaping placement.
      (1)   Outside public street rights-of-way. Required landscaping material
shall not be located within a street right-of-way.
      (2)   Grouping of plant material.
          (a)   Except for street trees, vegetation within a Type A perimeter
buffer, shrubs around a parking lot, or when vegetation is included as a
screening device, required plant material may generally be grouped or
clustered, however, the overall screening intent must be adequately addressed.
         (b)   Required plant material in a Type A perimeter buffer may not be
grouped and shall be planted according to the required on-center spacing in
Figure 54, Perimeter Buffer Configurations.
         (c)   Shrubs intended to screen features like refuse collection areas
or mechanical equipment may not be grouped if such grouping results in the
failure to meet the minimum screening standards of this article.
      (3)   Multiple-lot development. A multiple-lot development is not
required to provide perimeter buffers along lot lines internal to the
development, but the perimeter of the development shall be subject to the
standards in subsection (K) below, Perimeter buffers.
      (4)   Easements.
         (a)   Trees and shrubs may be located within a required easement on a
case-by-case basis with the permission of the easement holder.
         (b)   When landscaping is within an easement, the landowner is
responsible for replacement of any required vegetation if maintenance or other
actions result in its removal.
         (c)   When landscaping is planted in a drainage easement, it shall not
impact the easement design or impede the flow of water through the easement.
         (d)   Where an easement and a required landscape area coincide and
there is a prohibition on planting within the easement, then the required
landscaping area shall be located outside the easement.
      (5)   Setback smaller than required landscaping area. In cases where a
required setback is smaller or narrower than a required landscaping area, the
landscaping area width or size shall not be reduced.
      (6)   Fire protection system. Minimum clear separation distances required
by the current adopted version of the State Fire Code and any Fire Code
appendices adopted by the county shall be maintained for landscaping near a
fire protection system.
      (7)   Permitted encroachments.
         (a)   The following features may be located entirely within required
landscaping areas, provided the screening function of the landscaping is
maintained:
            1.   Principal buildings, provided the minimum setbacks of the
zoning district where located are maintained;
            2.   Fences and walls;
            3.   Berms with a maximum height of 12 feet or less;
            4.   Landscaping features, such as ornamental pools, planting
boxes, sculpture, arbors, trellises and birdbaths;
            5.   Pet shelters, well houses and mechanical enclosures;
            6.   On-grade patios, steps, benches, outdoor fireplaces,
playground equipment serving an individual dwelling unit, accessibility ramps,
roof overhangs and fire escapes;
            7.   Ornamental entry columns, gates, fences, walls and retaining
walls;
            8.   Flagpoles of 30 feet in height or less;
            9.   Lamp and address posts;
            10.   Utility cabinets of four feet in height or less;
            11.   Mailboxes; and
            12.   Signage.
         (b)   The following features may cross a required landscaping area in
a manner that minimizes the impact to the required landscaping:
            1.   Driveways, sidewalks, pedestrian walkways, greenways or multi-
use trails;
            2.   Utilities; and
            3.   Stormwater management facilities.
      (8)   Prohibited features. The following features shall not be located
within a required landscaping area:
         (a)   An accessory structure or open-air use;
         (b)   Off-street parking or loading areas; or
         (c)   Outdoor storage or display of products for sale.
   (H)   Time of installation.
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until all required
plant materials have been placed in accordance with the approved site plan and
requirements of this section.
      (2)   In cases where a certificate of occupancy is requested but all
required plant materials have not yet been installed or approved by the town
due to limitations of the planting season or commercial unavailability of
acceptable plant species, the applicant shall furnish the following:
         (a)   A signed contract for the installation of all required landscape
materials specifying the types of plant materials yet to be installed and the
anticipated date of installation; and
         (b)   A performance guarantee for the amount of the contract
configured in accordance with the applicable requirements of this article.
   (I)   Maintenance and replacement.
      (1)   Responsibility. The responsibility for maintenance of required
landscaping areas shall remain with the owner of the property, his or her
successors, heirs or assignees. Maintenance is required in order to ensure the
proper functioning of the plantings as a landscaped area which reduces or
eliminates nuisance and/or conflict. Damaging or failing to adequately maintain
required landscaping material is a violation of this article.
      (2)   Maintenance.
         (a)   All plantings shall be maintained in an attractive and healthy
condition. For the purpose of this division (I)(2), MAINTENANCE shall include,
but not be limited to: watering; mulching; fertilizing; pest management;
mowing; weeding; removal of litter and dead plant material; and necessary
pruning and trimming.
         (b)   Necessary pruning and trimming shall be accomplished in
accordance with the Tree Care Industry Association (TCIA) standards for the
professional arborist and shall not include:
            1.   The topping of trees;
            2.   Removal of 30% or more of the crown material in one calendar
year; or
            3.   Any other similarly severe procedures that may cause
irreparable harm to the natural form of the tree.
         (c)   Dead or diseased plantings shall be removed. Unless specifically
exempted (such as understory trees shaded by canopy trees), replacement
plantings shall be provided for any dead, diseased or removed vegetation when
such replacement plantings are necessary to meet the standards or this article
or maintain the screening objective of the landscaping material.
            1.   Landscape structural features such as walls, fences, berms or
water features shall be maintained in a structurally safe and attractive
condition.
            2.   Where other uses, including pedestrian and bicycle accessways,
are allowed within a required landscaping area, these uses shall be maintained
to provide for their safe use.
      (3)   Excessive pruning or trimming prohibited. Pruning or trimming
exceeding the TCIA standards or activities exceeding necessary pruning or
trimming identified in this subsection (I)(3) shall be a violation of this
article and shall require replacement of damaged vegetation.
      (4)   Replacement required. Any disturbed landscaping areas, areas of
preserved existing vegetation, or required plant material shall be replaced in
accordance with the approved development application and these standards. Trees
or vegetation that die within one year of construction completion shall be
removed and replaced with new vegetation of equal or greater size. Replacement
trees and/or shrubs shall be planted within 180 days of removal of required
vegetation.
      (5)   Revegetation plan required. In cases where required landscaping or
existing vegetation required to be preserved is damaged, disturbed or removed,
a revegetation plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the Town
Planner, in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Any tree with a caliper of at least eight inches that is damaged
or removed shall be replaced with one or more trees that have a caliper of at
least two and one-half inches and a cumulative caliper equal to or greater than
the original tree.
         (b)   Trees damaged or destroyed less than eight inches in diameter
shall be replaced to satisfy the performance criteria of this section.
         (c)   Shrubs may also be required to restore the landscaping
performance criteria for the disturbed area.
      (6)   Location of replacement trees and vegetation.
         (a)   Replanting shall be located within the vicinity of the
violation.
         (b)   If the area is too small for sufficient growth, a more suitable
location on the site may be selected, as permitted by the Town Planner.
   (J)   Parking lot landscaping. All parking lots serving multi-family, mixed
use and nonresidential developments shall comply with the following parking lot
landscaping standards.
      (1)   Interior plantings.
         (a)   Area to be landscaped. For the purposes of this section, the
interior of a parking lot shall be all of the area within the outer boundary of
the parking lot, including interior and corner landscape islands intended to
fulfill the interior parking lot landscaping requirements, but not including
landscaping planted around the perimeter of the parking lot (see
Figure 53, Parking Lot Landscaping).
         (b)   Landscaping islands and strips. A parking aisle with more than
12 vehicle spaces in a single row shall provide and maintain landscaping
islands at each end or provide landscaping strips along the full length of the
row, in accordance with the following standards.
            1.   Islands shall have a minimum dimension of nine feet and a
minimum area of 162 square feet, including the curb (if curbing is provided).
            2.   Landscape islands that do not contain canopy trees shall
contain three or more shrubs and also may contain understory trees.
            3.   Landscaping islands intended for the placement of canopy or
understory trees shall maintain a minimum width of nine feet.
            4.   Landscape strips between adjoining rows of parking spaces or
serving as driveway medians shall have a minimum dimension of nine feet,
including the curb (if provided). Landscape strips that do not have canopy
trees shall include shrubs planted no more than five feet on-center.
            5.   Landscaping strips running the full length of a row of parking
spaces shall be provided so that no more than six rows of parking spaces are
provided without a landscaping strip.
         (c)   Separation of light poles and trees. In order to prevent the
need to excessively trim required trees within landscape areas and to maintain
the effectiveness of parking area exterior lighting, light poles shall be
spaced at least ten linear feet from a canopy tree trunk to the maximum extent
practicable.
         (d)   Protection of landscape islands.
            1.   Landscape islands shall be protected from vehicle damage by
the installation of curbing, wheel stops or other comparable methods.
            2.   The placement of plant material within landscape islands shall
allow for a two and one-half-foot vehicle overhang from the face of the curb or
wheel stop.
         (e)   Protection from pedestrian walkways. In cases where a pedestrian
walkway must be located within five feet of a tree trunk, wooden walkways,
pervious pavers or other methods shall be used to ensure the required tree is
not damaged by the walkway.
         (f)   Stormwater management. A landscape island may be designed to
function as a stormwater management device, provided its landscaping
performance function is maintained.
         (g)   Structural soil required. Landscaping islands and strips located
within a parking lot shall be comprised of properly prepared structural soil
that has been properly amended and cultivated to support healthy vegetation.
      (2)   Perimeter plantings.
         (a)   Intent. Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall be designed to
soften the view of the parking lot from an abutting street or development and
to filter spillover light from vehicle headlights. Required plant material
shall be planted in such a way as to best achieve this intent.
         (b)   Location. Required plant material shall be placed adjacent to
the perimeter of the parking lot (see
Figure 53, Parking Lot Landscaping).
         (c)   Planting rate. Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall consist
of a single continuous row of evergreen shrubs planted no greater than three
feet on-center and within five feet of the parking lot edge.
         (d)   Size of plant material.
            1.   Shrubs used for parking lot perimeter landscaping shall be of
a minimum size necessary to achieve a maximum height of 36 inches above grade
within three years of planting.
            2.   In cases when vegetation provided as perimeter plantings
around a parking lot grows to a height exceeding 48 inches above grade, they
shall be trimmed or pruned as necessary to maintain a minimum height of 36
inches.
            3.   It shall be a violation of this article to remove or severely
prune shrubs required as parking lot perimeter vegetation to a height of less
than 36 inches.
         (e)   Alternatives. Perimeter parking lot plantings may be
supplemented or replaced through use of a vegetated berm or an opaque fence or
wall that meets the screening objective of this section.
         (f)   Exemptions.
            1.   Where off-street parking lots are adjacent to one another, but
on different lots, perimeter plantings or other forms of screening are not
required along the common boundary between the two parking lots.
            2.   Developments consisting of multiple lots that are planned and
developed as a single, unified or consolidated project may be configured so
that perimeter plantings are only located around the perimeter of the entire
development instead of between parking lots and building s located within the
develop ment.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1821.png]
 
Figure 53 - Parking Lot Landscaping
   (K)    Perimeter buffers.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. These standards are proposed to eliminate or
minimize potential nuisances, such as dirt, litter, noise, glare of lights,
signs and unsightly buildings or parking areas through physical and visual
separation between land uses in separate zoning districts.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   All development shall comply with the perimeter buffer standards
in this section.
         (b)   Development shall provide perimeter buffers along the side and
rear lot lines in accordance with
Table 12, Buffer Applications.
         (c)   Lot lines abutting street rights-of-way shall comply with the
standards in subsection (L) below, Streetscape buffers.
      (3)   Buffers distinguished. 
Table 12, Buffer Applications, establishes the standards for four perimeter
buffers, including the minimum requirements for each of the following buffer
types:
         (a)   Type A, separation buffer;
         (b)   Type B, intermittent buffer;
         (c)   Type C, semi-opaque buffer; and
         (d)   Type D, opaque buffer.
      (4)   Buffer determination.
         (a)   The lot or site being developed is the one responsible for
providing the required perimeter buffer, which shall be located solely upon the
lot or site being developed.
         (b)   The type of perimeter buffer required is based upon the zoning
district designation of the land being developed as well as the zoning district
designation of the abutting lots (see
Table 12, Buffer Applications).
      (5)   Buffer configuration. Perimeter buffers required by this section
shall be located along the outer perimeter of the lot and shall extend to the
connecting lot lines. In cases where the lot line is within a drainage swale,
the perimeter buffer shall extend to the edge of the swale instead of the lot
line. A perimeter buffer may be located along shared access easements between
parcels in nonresidential developments.
      (6)   Buffer application. 
Table 12, Buffer Applications, specifies the type of perimeter buffer that
development shall provide between it and adjacent land, based on the zoning
district of the development site and that of the adjacent land. The buffer type
is indicated by a letter corresponding to one of the four buffer types
described in
Figure 54, Perimeter Buffer Configurations.
 
Table 12 - Buffer Applications
Zoning District of Zoning District of Land Adjacent to Proposed Development
Developing Land    RA, R-20 R-15, R-9 R-9M, OI, NB CB, HB, I
CB, HB, LI         D        D         C            None
R-9M, OI, NB       D        C         A            None
R-15, R-9          C        A         B            B
RA, R-20           A        C         B            B
 
      (7)   Exemptions. Developments consisting of multiple lots that are
planned and developed as a single, unified or consolidated project may be
configured so that perimeter buffers are only located around the perimeter of
the entire development instead of between lots within the development.
Figure 54 - Perimeter Buffer Configurations
Figure 54 - Perimeter Buffer Configurations
Type A Separation Buffer
The Type A separation perimeter buffer serves as a visual break between land
ownership or zoning district designations. It is not intended to provide
substantial visual or acoustic buffering. The image below shows an
approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1823.png]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               10
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            50
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum on-   None
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum   4 / None [1]
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum on-center spacing    15 / None [1]
(feet) [2]
Notes:
[1] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted provided there is no un-vegetated
portion of the buffer exceeding 30 feet in length.
[2] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
Type B Intermittent Buffer
The Type B intermittent perimeter buffer functions as an intermittent visual
screen from the ground to a height of five feet. It is intended to partially
block visibility between different uses but not totally obstruct visual contact
from one use to another. The image below shows an approximation of this buffer
type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1825.png]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               20
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            60
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum on-   2/50
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum   4/25[1]
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#)/Maximum on-center spacing    15 / None [1]
(feet) [2]
Notes:
[1] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted provided there is no un-vegetated
portion of the buffer exceeding 20 feet in length.
[2] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
Type C Semi-Opaque Buffer
The Type C semi-opaque perimeter buffer functions as a partially opaque screen
from the ground to a height of six feet. This type of buffer prevents visual
contact between uses but not total obstruction from one use to another. The
buffer creates a sense of visual separation but provides only minor acoustic
separation. The image below shows an approximation of this buffer type at
maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1827.png]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               30
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            75
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet (#)/maximum on-   3/33
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet(#)/maximum    6/16 [3]
on-center spacing (ft)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet (#)/maximum on-center spacing    25/4 [3]
(feet) [2]
Notes:
[1] Provision of a semi-opaque fence or wall allows the buffer width to be
reduced by 5 feet.
[2] Provision of a fully-opaque fence, wall or berm allows the buffer width to
be reduced by 10 feet.
[3] Grouping of trees or shrubs is permitted within 20 feet of the edge of a
street right-of-way provided there is no un-vegetated portion of the buffer
exceeding 10 feet in length.
[4] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
Type D Opaque Buffer
The Type D opaque perimeter buffer functions as a fully opaque screen from the
ground to a height of eight feet. This type of buffer provides a strong sense
of visual and acoustic separation between uses. The image below shows an
approximation of this buffer type at maturity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1829.png]
 
Buffer Configuration                                              Requirement
Buffer width (feet)                                               40
Minimum evergreen shrub percentage (%)                            100
Required canopy trees per every 100 linear feet(#)/ Maximum on-   4/25
center spacing (feet)
Required understory trees per every 100 linear feet (#) / Maximum 8/15
on-center spacing (feet)
Shrubs per every 100 linear feet(#)/ Maximum on-center spacing    35/3
(feet) [2]
Notes:
[1] Provision of a semi-opaque fence or wall allows the buffer width to be
reduced by 5 feet.
[2] Provision of a fully-opaque fence, wall or berm allows the buffer width to
be reduced by 10 feet.
[3] In the event a fence or wall is provided, shrubs shall be planted between
the fence or wall and the lot line. Shrubs shall be no closer than 3 feet to
the lot line.
 
   (L)   Streetscape buffers.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. Streetscape buffers are proposed to soften the
view of development from the town’s street rights-of-way, and are intended to:
         (a)   Enhance pedestrian orientation and encourage pedestrian travel;
         (b)   Address urban heat islands by providing shade for streets and
sidewalks;
         (c)   Provide shade on sidewalks;
         (d)   Promote the town’s “sense of place”;
         (e)   Support property values by enhancing the aesthetic character of
the town’s streets; and
         (f)   Provide habitat for flora and fauna.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   The standards in this section shall apply to all lot lines
bounded by the following features, whether existing or identified in the town’s
adopted policy guidance:
            1.   Local streets;
            2.   Collector streets; and
            3.   Arterial streets.
         (b)   In cases where a future street is planned but its approximate
location is not indicated on an adopted or approved town map or plan,
streetscape buffering shall not be required on lots abutting the future street
alignment.
      (3)   Exemption. Streetscape buffers are not required along lot lines
abutting the following features:
         (a)   Driveways, private drives or alleys;
         (b)   Lot lines abutting platted street rights-of-way that are or have
remained unopened for at least 15 years;
         (c)   Lot frontages where the entirety of the lot frontage is within a
required sight distance triangle; and
         (d)   Property in the CB District.
      (4)   Required plant material. Streetscape buffers shall be configured in
one of the following three ways (see
Figure 55, Streetscape Buffer Configuration):
         (a)   Three canopy trees for every 100 linear feet of lot frontage;
         (b)   Two canopy trees and two understory trees for every 100 linear
feet of lot frontage; or
         (c)   Four understory trees for every 100 linear feet, where overhead
utilities are present.
      (5)   Placement.
         (a)   Vegetation required as part of a streetscape buffer shall be
located outside the street right- of-way.
         (b)   Canopy trees shall be located within ten feet of the right-of-
way edge.
         (c)   Understory trees shall be located within five feet of the right-
of-way edge.
         (d)   An alternative location may be approved by the Town Planner in
cases where underground utilities, drainage easements, topography or other
obstructions make placement of streetscape buffer vegetation in accordance with
these standards impractical.
      (6)   Prohibited features. Off-street parking, off-street loading,
merchandise display or outdoor storage shall not take place within a required
streetscape buffer.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1831.png]
 
Figure 55 - Streetscape Buffer Configuration
§ 651 SCREENING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. These standards are intended to reduce the visual
impact of solid waste collection structures, service areas and mechanical
equipment upon the public realm and adjacent lots as well as to enhance the
aesthetics of developm ent in the town.
   (B )   Ap plicability . Unless exempted in accordanc e with §
650(C), Exemptio ns, the standards in this section apply to the following:
      (1)    Principal buildings constructed or open uses of land established
after the effective date of these standards;
      (2)   Changes in use;
      (3)   Expansions of principal building floor area of 1,000 or more square
feet or expansions of off-street parking of 2,000 or more square feet;
      (4)   Solid waste collection dumpsters, bins and compactors;
      (5)   Recycling facilities (including cardboard recycling);
      (6)   Ground-based climate control equipment;
      (7)   Ground-based mechanical equipment (including electrical
generators);
      (8)   Above-ground storage tanks; and
      (9)   Loading equipment.
   (C)   Exemptions. Solid waste collection facilities and mechanical equipment
serving single-family detached and duplex dwellings shall be exempted from
these standards, but these standards shall apply within manufactured home
parks.
   (D)   General standards.
      (1)   Location. No site features subject to these standards shall be
located between the principal structure and the street it fronts.
      (2)   Screening required. Site features subject to these standards shall
be screened from view from streets, public parks, urban open space set-asides,
single-family detached residential dwellings and duplex dwellings.
   (E)   Screening methods.
      (1)   Site features subject to these standards shall be screened by any
of the following methods, in single use or in combination (see
Figure 56, Screening Methods):
         (a)   Evergreen vegetation configured to provide a fully-opaque screen
to a minimum height of six feet within four years of planting;
         (b)   Vegetated berms supplemented with plantings as necessary to
provide a fully-opaque screen to a minimum height of six feet within three
years of planting;
         (c)   An opaque fence constructed of treated wood, rot-resistant wood
(such as cypress or redwood), plastic or vinyl;
         (d)   A masonry wall constructed of brick, textured concrete masonry
units or stucco block; or
         (e)   Walls of a principal or accessory structure.
      (2)   In no instance shall a chain-link fence with plastic slats or
attached fabric meet the opacity requirements for screening in this article.
Screening techniques shall be of sufficient height and design to effectively
screen the facility from the view from adjacent properties and streets.
   (F)   Specific standards for solid waste and recycling facilities exceeding
100 gallons of capacity. Solid waste and recycling receptacles shall be so
located so as to be convenient for collection and shall be appropriate to the
type and size of the development or use being served. All trash and recycling
receptacles shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying
zoning district. All required dumpster, recycling and trash handling facilities
shall be designed with appropriate means of access to a street or alley in a
manner that will least interfere with traffic movement and will most facilitate
the service of the facilities. Space allocated to any trash handling facilities
shall not be used to satisfy the space requirements for off-street parking or
loading facilities, nor shall any parking or loading spaces be used to satisfy
the space requirements for any dumpster or trash handling facility.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1833.png]
 
Figure 56 - Screening Methods
§ 652 PLANTING FLEXIBILITY.
   (A)    Credit for existing veg etation.
      (1)    In order to encourage the preservation of established, healthy
vegetation, credit shall be given towards the landscaping requirements in this
section for preservation of existing trees and shrubs that are pre-existing
within required landscaping areas at a rate of one and twenty-five hundredths
times the amount of existing, healthy vegetation to be retained.
      (2)   Vegetation to be credited towards these requirements shall be
protected with tree protection devices approved by the Town Planner before and
during development of the site and maintained thereafter in a healthy growing
condition.
   (B)   Revisions to approved landscape plans. Due to seasonal planting
problems and/or a lack of plant availability, approved landscape plans may
require minor revisions. Minor revisions to planting plans may be approved by
the Town Planner if:
      (1)   There is no reduction in the quantity of plant material;
      (2)   There is no significant change in size or location of plant
materials; and
      (3)   The new plants are of the same general category (i.e., canopy tree,
understory tree, evergreen or shrub) and have the same general design
characteristics (mature height, crown spread and the like) as the materials
being replaced.
   (C)   Alternative landscape plans. An alternate landscape plan that allows
modifications to the requirements of this section may be approved by the Town
Planner in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Conditions justifying alternative landscape plan. Any of the
following natural physical conditions may be used as a justification for an
alternative landscape plan:
         (a)   Wetland areas;
         (b)   Topography;
         (c)   Non-arable soils;
         (d)   Difficult or unusual lot configuration;
         (e)   Utility, access, drainage or maintenance easements;
         (f)   A desire to retain existing on-site vegetation;
         (g)   Natural rock formations;
         (h)   Required landscaping areas that are in permanent shade resulting
from a building or structure; and
         (i)   Impractical situations that would result from application of
this section.
      (2)   Intent. To be approved, any alternative landscape plan shall meet
the intent of the applicable planting yard(s) and the purpose and intent of the
landscaping standards of this section.
      (3)   Allowable modifications. The following landscape standards may be
modified by an alternate landscape plan:
         (a)   The location of required plant materials;
         (b)   The width of required planting areas;
         (c)   The configuration of required plant materials; and
         (d)   The number of required plant materials.
      (4)   Justification required. The alternative landscape plan shall
include justification for the modifications requested, based upon, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The presence or planned location of public utilities,
infrastructure or easements;
         (b)   The location of existing healthy vegetation or other beneficial
site features to be retained after development;
         (c)   The size, shape or topographic elevation of the site relative to
the street(s) it abuts; and
         (d)   The need to protect solar access or avoid permanently shaded
areas on the site.
DIVISION 6. OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDE
§ 660 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this section is to help ensure the provision and maintenance
of open space resources that encourage recreation and the gathering of town
residents and visitors. These standards are further intended to:
   (A)   Establish the standards under which residential, mixed use and
nonresidential development shall set aside a portion of the development area as
open space;
   (B)   Distinguish between the characteristics, requirements and appropriate
locations for open space set-asides, based on the zoning district designation;
and
   (C)   Establish minimum ownership and maintenance standards for homeowner
and property owner associations related to open space set-asides.
§ 661 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Unless exempted by this section, the standards in this section shall
apply to all new single-family detached residential subdivisions, duplex
development, multi-family development and mixed use development.
   (B)   Redevelopment of the use types listed in subsection (A) above
conducted after July 1, 2022, shall comply with the standards in this section,
to the maximum extent practicable and shall provide its pro rata share of open
space set aside.
§ 662 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following forms of development shall be exempted from the standards in
this section:
   (A)   Development of an individual single-family detached dwelling
(including manufactured homes) on its own lot;
   (B)   Subdivisions comprised solely of four or fewer lots where all lots
intended for single-family detached residential dwellings; and
   (C)   Developments of two acres or less in total area.
§ 663 MINIMUM OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Amount.
      (1)   All development subject to these standards shall set aside 15% of
the development’s total area for use as open space set-aside.
      (2)   Nothing shall limit the provision of a greater minimum percentage
or other type of open space set-aside, provided the minimum requirements in
this section are met.
      (3)   Land dedicated for parkland and for shared use paths or trails
shall be credited toward open space set-aside requirements.
   (B)   Type.
      (1)   Development subject to these standards shall configure at least 65%
of the open space set-aside for active recreation in accordance with §
664(A), Open Space Set-Aside Configuration, Active open space set aside. The
balance of the open space set-aside shall be configured for passive recreation
in accordance with §
664(B), Passive open space set-aside.
      (2)   Nothing shall prevent more than 65% of the open space set-aside
from being configured for active recreational uses.
§ 664 OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDE CONFIGURATION.
   Open space set-asides shall be configured in accordance with the following
standards (see
Figure 57, Open Space Set-Aside Configuration).
   (A)   Active open space set-aside. Active open space set-asides provide for
active recreational needs of the residents or visitors they serve. Active
features include fields and courts as well as built structures. Active open
space set-asides shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Configuration.
         (a)   Lands set aside as active open space set-aside shall be compact
and contiguous unless the land is used as a continuation of an existing trail,
or specific natural or topographic features require a different configuration.
         (b)   Active open space set-aside areas shall be located so as to be
readily accessible and useable by residents and users of the development.
         (c)   Where possible, a portion of the open space set-aside should
provide focal points for the development.
         (d)   Where the development site is adjacent to existing or planned
trails, parks or other public open area land, the open space set-aside shall,
to the maximum extent practicable, be located to adjoin, extend and enlarge the
trail, park or other open area.
      (2)   Allowable features. The following types of features are allowable
in and credited towards active open space set-asides:
         (a)   Lands dedicated for public parks or greenways when not already
credited towards urban open space set-asides;
         (b)   Swimming pools, splash pads and areas devoted to water play for
children;
         (c)   Athletic fields and courts;
         (d)   Boat launches and swimming platforms;
         (e)   Club houses;
         (f)   Playgrounds and play structures for children; and
         (g)   Obstacle courses and exercise trails.
   (B)   Passive open space set-aside. Passive open space set-asides are
intended to provide land area that is undeveloped, or that is developed with
low-intensity recreational features (such as those for walking or sitting),
landscaping, replacement trees or stormwater control measures that are
configured as a site amenity.
      (1)   Allowable features. The land area occupied by any of the following
types of features is credited towards required passive open space set-aside:
         (a)   Walking, bicycling and equestrian trails;
         (b)   Boardwalks;
         (c)   Gardens and greenway trails;
         (d)   Benches and seating areas;
         (e)   Tables, shelters, grills and related picnicking facilities;
         (f)   Lawn areas and community greens;
         (g)   Lakes, ponds, wetlands, swamps, canals and streams;
         (h)   Piers and docks for fishing or viewing wildlife; and
         (i)   Undisturbed land subject to a deed restriction or conservation
easement.
      (2)   Site features credited towards passive open space set-aside
requirements.
         (a)   The following site features shall be credited towards passive
open space set-aside requirements:
            1.   Lands dedicated for public parks or greenways, when not
already credited towards active or urban open space set-asides;
            2.   Required landscaping areas;
            3.   Tree save areas;
            4.   United StatesArmy Corps of Engineers designated 404 wetlands;
            5.   Riparian buffer areas;
            6.   Natural heritage areas; and
            7.   Land area occupied by stormwater control measures, including
retention ponds, fully vegetated detention basins and other bio-retention
devices, provided these facilities are treated as a site amenity.
         (b)   In order to be considered a site amenity that is credited
towards passive open space set-aside requirements, stormwater control measures
shall include all the following:
            1.   Pedestrian access to the facility;
            2.   Gentle slopes of 3:1 or less;
            3.   Pedestrian elements such as paths, benches and similar aspects
to and around the facility; and
            4.   Vegetation, whether planted or retained.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1835.png]
 
Figure 57 - Open Space Set-aside Configuration
   (C)    Access to open space. All open space must be pedestrian accessible.
Open space not contiguous to a proposed subdivision street must have a minimum
of a 20-foot permanent access, typically in fee simple or by easement.
§ 665 OWNERSHIP OF OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDES.
   Open space set-asides are intended to remain under private ownership while
being available for use by residents and visitors in the development where
located. Ownership of open space set-asides shall remain with the owner of the
land, except in the following circumstances.
   (A)   Owners’ association. All open space set-aside areas may be owned
jointly or in common by the owners of the development through a recognized
homeowners’ or property owners’ association, which shall be established in
accordance with §
770, Required Restrictive Covenants and Review by Town.
   (B)   Non-profit organization. The landowners may decide to convey an open
space set-aside to a non-profit organization, such as a land trust or land
conservancy, for management and maintenance if the town is provided adequate
assurance the set-aside will be properly managed and maintained.
   (C)   Dedicated to town or another public agency. In some cases, certain
lands designated as open space set-asides, such as wildlife habitat or
greenways, may be dedicated to the town or other public agency during the
development review process. The Board of Commissioners shall determine which
lands and under what conditions open space set-asides may be dedicated to the
town or other public agency.
§ 666 MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE SET-ASIDES.
   (A)   The owner of the land shall be responsible for maintenance of all open
space set-aside areas (including land, vegetation, private infrastructure,
greenways and other features) in accordance with this ordinance and any
conditions of approval associated with the development.
   (B)   Failure to maintain open space set-aside areas is a violation of this
ordinance subject to the remedies and penalties in
Article 9, Enforcement.
§ 667 PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF PROVISION OR DEDICATION.
   (A)   Payments in lieu of provision or dedication. No payment in lieu is
permitted.
DIVISION 7. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 670 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to ensure provision
of off-street parking and loading facilities in proportion to the generalized
parking, loading and transportation demand of the different uses allowed by
this article. The standards are further intended to:
      (1)   Provide for adequate off-street parking, off-street loading and
safe movement of vehicles into, out of and through parking areas;
      (2)   Allow for flexibility to accommodate alternative solutions to off-
street parking and loading needs, where such flexibility is consistent with the
town’s adopted policy guidance;
      (3)   Reduce the aesthetic impact of surface parking lots in business
areas and lands proximate to residential neighborhoods through standards
addressing on-site parking lot locations;
      (4)   Avoid excessive paved surface areas and the resulting problems
associated with stormwater runoff and urban heat islands; and
      (5)   Protecting compatibility between adjacent uses of land.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section shall apply to all
development in the town’s planning jurisdiction, unless exempted in accordance
with subsection (C) below, Exemptions.
      (1)   Generally. Whenever a building is constructed, an open-air use of
land is conducted or a principal or accessory use is established, the
development shall meet the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Additions and expansions. Whenever a building, open air use of land
or principal or accessory use is enlarged or increased in capacity by 20% or
more, the entire development shall comply with these requirements.
      (3)   Changes in use.
         (a)   If the principal use changes, then the new principal use shall
meet the requirements of this section, except that if the use change results in
an increase of less than 5% in the required number of parking spaces, or less
than two additional parking spaces, no additional parking spaces are required.
         (b)   In cases where an existing parking lot does not comply with the
parking lot configuration requirements of this section, changes in use shall
require the parking lot’s configuration to be brought into compliance with
these standards to the maximum extent practicable.
   (C)   Exemptions. The standards in this section shall not apply to the
following forms of development:
      (1)   Lawfully-established lots of record existing prior to November 2,
2020, that contain a single-family detached residential structure and are not
served by an alley;
      (2)   Re-striping an existing parking lot which does not create a
deficient number of parking spaces or a nonconforming situation; and
      (3)   Establishment of a single-family detached home is exempted from the
standards in this section but shall comply with
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
   (D)   Timing of review. Development subject to these standards shall be
reviewed for compliance at the time of site plan, or special use permit review,
as appropriate. In cases where a development application is considered by more
than one review authority, the decision regarding compliance with these
standards shall be made by the review authority making the final decision on
the application under review.
   (E)   Off-street parking requirements.
      (1)   Parking plan required. Every application for a site plan or
building permit shall include a parking plan, site plan or plot plan drawn to
scale and fully-dimensioned as necessary in order to demonstrate compliance
with the standards in this article.
      (2)   Minimum off-street parking spaces required. The minimum number of
off-street parking spaces required for development shall be in accordance with
the applicable use type listed in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (3)   Use of on-street parking. Off-street parking required by this
section shall be provided without the use of streets.
      (4)   Off-street parking space maximum. Commercial use types shall limit
the total number of off-street parking spaces provided to not more than 150% of
the minimum parking spaces required in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (5)   Use type not listed. For use types that do not correspond to the
use types listed in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements, any one of the following
actions may be taken as part of determining the applicable off-street parking
requirements:
         (a)   The applicant may provide a parking study for the use(s)
prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state;
         (b)   The applicant may propose a text amendment to the town’s zoning
regulations;
         (c)   The applicant may request a formal determination of these off-
street parking standards by the Town Planner (which may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment); or
         (d)   The Town Planner may determine the minimum parking space
requirement based on a similar use in accordance with the standards of this
article.
      (6)   Developments with multiple use types or lots. Development
containing more than one principal use shall provide the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces in an amount equal to the total required for all
individual principal uses in the development. Developments consisting of
multiple lots that are planned and developed as a single, unified or
consolidated project may be configured to locate a portion of the required
parking for one lot on another in the same development.
      (7)   Use of required off-street parking spaces.
         (a)   Off-street parking areas used for any of the following vehicles
are not credited towards the minimum number of required off-street parking
spaces and such vehicles shall be located outside required off-street parking
spaces and any street rights-of-way:
            1.   Vehicles for sale or lease;
            2.   Vehicles being stored, serviced or repaired;
            3.   Recreational vehicles, boats; and
            4.   Vehicles belonging to the use, such as company vehicles.
         (b)   Required off-street parking spaces shall not be used for any
purpose other than the temporary parking of operable vehicles.
         (c)   In no instance shall motor vehicle servicing or repair of a
vehicle take place within a required off-street parking space except for
washing and emergency service necessary to start the vehicle.
      (8)   Driveways used to meet parking requirements. Driveways of
sufficient size may be used to accommodate required off-street parking spaces
only for the following uses:
         (a)   Boarding/rooming houses;
         (b)   Duplex, triplex and quadplex dwellings;
         (c)   Cemeteries;
         (d)   Family care and group homes;
         (e)   Single-family attached dwellings in developments of six or fewer
dwellings; and
         (f)   Single-family detached dwellings (including manufactured and
mobile homes).
      (9)   Minimum off-street parking requirements table.
Table 13 - Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Type Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
Table 13 - Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Type                       Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
Commercial Uses
Animal boarding or grooming    1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
                               600 sf not used by the public
Automotive painting/body shop  2 + 1 per every service bay
Automotive parts and accessory 1 per every 200 sf
sales
Automobile repair and
servicing (without painting/   2 + 1 per every service bay
bodywork)
Automobile sales or rentals    1 per every 200 sf
Automotive towing and storage  1 per employee on the largest shift
lot
Bar, cocktail lounge or        1 per every 150 sf
private club
Bed and breakfast              2 + 1 per every rental unit
Bottle shop (with on-premises  1 per every 4 seats
consumption)
Bulky items sales              1 per every 600 sf
Business incubator             1 per every 450 sf
Campground                     1 + 1 per every camping space
Car wash or automobile         2 per every washing bay
detailing
Catering establishment         1 per every 300 sf
Coffee shop/bakery             1 per every 150 sf
Computer-related service       1 per every 600 sf
Convenience store              1 per every 200 sf
Co-working space               1 per every 250 sf
Electronic gaming operation    1 per every 200 sf
Event venue                    1 per every 150 sf
Financial service              1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
                               600 sf not used by the public
Funeral-related service        Greater of: 1 per every 200 sf used by public,
                               or 1 per every 4 seats in chapel
Hair, nails, skin-related and  1 per every 200 sf
tanning service
Heavy equipment sales, rental  1 per every 600 sf
and repair
Hotel or motel                 5 + 1 per every rental unit
Indoor commercial recreation   1 per every 200 sf
Microbrewery or                1 per every 150 sf
microdistillery
Office, medical                4 per every doctor/practitioner
Office, professional           1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
                               600 sf not used by the public
Outdoor commercial recreation  1 per every 1,000 sf of activity area (including
                               building sf)
Outdoor shooting range         1 per every 200 sf
Outdoor storage                1 + 1 per employee on largest shift
Packaging and printing service 1 per every 200 sf
Institutional Uses
Cemetery, columbarium or       1 per employee on the largest shift
mausoleum
Church                         Greater of: 1 per every 6 seats or 1 per every
                               50 sf of floor area in main assembly room
Civic, fraternal or social     1 per every 300 sf
organization
College or university          5 per every classroom + 5 per every office
Community center               1 per every 300 sf
Cultural facility, library or  1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
museum                         600 sf not used by the public
Daycare, adult                 1 per every employee on largest shift + 2
Daycare, child                 1 per every employee + 1 per every 10 children
Elementary or secondary school Elementary: 1 per employee + 1
                               Secondary: 5 per every classroom and office
Golf course, public            1 per every 4 persons of design capacity
Governmental use               1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
                               600 sf not used by the public
Healthcare use                 1 per every 200 sf
Outdoor recreation, public     1 per every 900 sf of activity area (including
                               building sf)
Park or playground             1 per employee on largest shift + 1 per acre
Public safety facility         1 per every 200 sf used by public + 1 per every
                               600 sf not used by the public
Small wireless facility        None
Telecommunications tower       Two
Utility, major                 1 per every 1,500 sf
Residential Uses
Assisted living facility       1 per employee on the largest shift + 0.25 per
                               bed
Dormitory                      1 per employee on largest shift + 0.25 per bed
Duplex dwelling [1]            2 per every dwelling unit
Family care home               2 + 1 per bedroom
Group home                     2 + 1 per bedroom
Manufactured dwelling (a, b or 2 per dwelling unit
c) [1]
Manufactured dwelling park [1] 2 per every home site
Mobile home [1]                2 per dwelling unit
Mobile home park [1]           2 per every mobile home site
Multi-family dwelling          1.5 per every dwelling unit + 0.25 guest spaces
                               per unit
Nursing home                   1 per employee on largest shift + 0.25 per bed
Single-family detached         2 per dwelling unit
dwelling [1]
Townhouse [1]                  2 per every dwelling unit + 0.25 guest spaces
                               per unit
Note:
[1] See § 7           . For subdivision requirements for parking lots to store
vehicles not permitted to be stored in residential driveways under §           
.
 
      (10)   Bicycle parking.
         (a)   Applicability.
            1.   Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided on all new
commercial, mixed use, multi-family and institutional use types served by 20 or
more off-street parking spaces for vehicles.
            2.   Bicycle parking shall not be required for industrial use
types.
         (b)   Rate of provision. Bicycle parking spaces shall be provided at a
rate of one bicycle parking space for every 20 off-street parking spaces for
automobiles. Nothing shall limit the provision of more bicycle parking spaces
than are otherwise required.
         (c)   Configuration.
            1.   Bicycle parking should be accessible to the primary entrances
of the development and located in a visible, well-lit area (see
Figure 58, Bicycle Parking).
            2.   Bicycle parking shall be served by a pedestrian walkway
connecting the bicycle parking to the closest primary building entrance.
            3.   Bicycle parking shall be located where it does not interfere
with pedestrian traffic and is protected from conflicts with vehicular traffic.
            4.   Bicycle parking may be accommodated within street setback
areas.
            5.   A bicycle rack or other device shall be provided to enable
bicycles to be secured.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1837.png]
 
Figure 58 - Bicycle Parking
         (d)    Shared bicycle parking spaces. Nothing shall limit uses on the
same block face from establish ing shared or consolid ated bicycle parking
spaces in central or mid-block locations, provided there are sufficient bicycle
parking spaces for all uses sharing the required bicycle parking.
   (F)   Parking lot configuration.
      (1)    General. All required off-street parking spaces shall be located
on the same lot as the principal use they serve, except as allowed in
subsection (G) below, Alternatives. Required off-street parking shall be
maintained for the duration of the principal use and shall not be reduced
unless the principal use ceases or changes. Except where allowed by this
article, off-street parking spaces shall not be located in any required
landscaping or stormwater management area. Off-street parking spaces shall not
protrude into any street, fire lane, drive aisle, sidewalk, greenway or
pedestrian connection.
      (2)   Dimensional standards for parking spaces and aisles. Off-street
parking spaces and drive aisles serving them shall comply with the minimum
dimensional standards established in
Table 14, Dimensional Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots.
Table 14 - Dimensional Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots
Type of Parking Minimum Width  Minimum Depth  Minimum Aisle Width (feet) [1]
Space           (feet)         (feet)         One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
Table 14 - Dimensional Standards for Off-Street Parking Lots
Type of Parking Minimum Width  Minimum Depth  Minimum Aisle Width (feet) [1]
Space           (feet)         (feet)         One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
Angled (45°)   10             20             12              24
Parallel (0°)  9              22             12              24
Perpendicular   10             20             20              24
(90°)
Notes:
[1] Minimum aisle width shall be measured from edge-of-pavement to edge-of-
pavement and shall not include gutters or curbing.
 
      (3)   Compact parking spaces. Compact car off-street parking spaces with
a minimum width of eight and one-half feet and a minimum depth of 18 feet may
be provided for up to 30% of the minimum parking requirements in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements. In no instance shall the
minimum size of a compact parking space be further reduced.
      (4)   Parking space access.
         (a)   All off-street parking spaces shall be accessed directly from
drive aisles or private driveways and not directly from arterial or collector
streets.
         (b)   All off-street parking areas shall be designed with an
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that
allows for safe vehicular movements.
      (5)   Vehicle backing. Vehicular use areas shall be designed so that a
vehicle is not required to back onto a street to enter or exit the parking lot,
a parking space or a stacking space.
      (6)   Surface materials. All off-street parking spaces, accessible
parking spaces, drive aisles and vehicular use areas shall be paved and
maintained with concrete, asphalt or similar material of sufficient thickness
and consistency to support anticipated traffic volumes and weights.
      (7)   Grading and drainage. The parking lot shall be graded, properly
drained, stabilized and maintained to minimize dust and erosion. Parking lots
shall not impound stormwater unless surface impoundment is required as a method
of stormwater management. However, in no instance shall surface impoundment
result in a fewer number of off-street parking spaces than required in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements.
      (8)   Markings. All parking spaces and lanes in parking lots shall be
clearly delineated with paint lines, curbs or other treatment.
      (9)   Curbs and wheel stops. All off-street parking spaces shall have
curbs or wheel stops located so that no part of the parked vehicle extends onto
or over a sidewalk, walkway of six feet in width or less, adjacent property or
landscape area.
      (10)   Separation from fire protection facilities. No required off-street
parking space take place within designated fire lanes or be located within 15
feet of a fire hydrant or other fire protection facility.
      (11)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting in parking lots shall be
designed to provide illumination of parking lot areas for the purposes of safe
vehicle and pedestrian circulation.
      (12)   Landscaping. Parking lot landscaping shall be provided in
accordance with §
650(J), Landscaping, Parking lot landscaping.
      (13)   Accessible parking spaces.
         (a)   Accessible parking spaces for the disabled are required for all
forms of development except single-family detached dwellings.
         (b)   Accessible parking spaces shall be in accordance with the
regulations set forth by the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 12101 et seq., and the State Building Code.
         (c)   Accessible (handicapped) parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the State Building Code requirements.
   (G)   Alternatives. Development may deviate from the off-street parking
requirements in this section through approval of an alternative parking plan
accepted by the Town Planner and configured in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Deviation from required minimum. An applicant may propose a reduced
rate of provision for off-street parking less than that specified in
Table 13, Minimum Off-Street Parking Requirements, in accordance with a parking
study prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state. The parking
study shall document why fewer spaces than required will be adequate while
still protecting the public’s health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Provision over the maximum allowed. An applicant proposing
development subject to the standards in subsection (E)(4) above, Off-street
parking space maximum, may propose a total number of off-street parking spaces
that exceeds the maximum allowed only through the provision of a parking study
prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state. The parking study
shall document why the provision of off-street parking spaces beyond the
maximum authorized is necessary for the public’s health, safety or welfare.
      (3)   Off-site parking. Up to 50% of off-street parking space
requirements for an existing building may be met by locating required parking
in an off-site location, in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   The off-site parking is located within 1,000 feet from the use
it serves, as measured from the entrance of the use to the nearest off-site
parking space;
         (b)   A sidewalk or paved pedestrian walkway is provided to the off-
site parking area from the use;
         (c)   In cases where the off-site parking is located on land under
separate ownership from the use it serves, the off-site parking shall be
subject to a written agreement executed by the owners involved and filed with
the Town Planner prior to the use of off-site parking facilities. The agreement
shall guarantee the long-term availability of the off-site parking in question;
and
         (d)   Should an off-site parking agreement cease, then the use shall
be considered a nonconformity, unless the use is brought into compliance with
the minimum off-street parking requirements of this section.
      (4)   Shared parking. The required off-street parking for a use may be
met with shared use of the required off-street parking spaces of another use,
only in accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   The use of shared off-street parking spaces shall be subject to
a shared parking agreement executed by the landowners of the uses involved,
approved by the Town Planner, and recorded in the office of the County Register
of Deeds where the development is located.
         (b)   The shared parking agreement shall guarantee the long-term
availability of the shared parking spaces in question. Nothing shall limit the
percentage of required off-street parking spaces that may be provided through a
shared parking agreement.
         (c)   The shared parking is located within 1,000 feet, as measured
from the entrance of the use to the nearest shared parking space.
         (d)   A sidewalk or paved pedestrian walkway is provided to the shared
parking area from the use.
         (e)   The uses served by the shared parking must have different peak
parking demands, differences in hours or days of operation, or otherwise
operate such that the uses sharing parking have access to the required minimum
number of off-street parking spaces when in operation.
         (f)   Should the shared parking agreement cease, then the use(s)
formerly served by shared parking shall be considered a nonconformity, unless
the use(s) is brought into compliance with the minimum off-street parking
requirements of this section.
   (H)   Off-street loading.
      (1)   Loading facilities required. Every application for a nonresidential
use shall ensure that adequate off-street loading facilities are provided so
that loading vehicles do not occupy required off-street parking spaces, block
vehicular access or prevent appropriate on-site maneuvering.
      (2)   Minimum off-street loading space requirements. A minimum number of
off-street loading spaces is not established; however, if off-street loading
spaces are provided, they shall be provided and maintained in sufficient
numbers to adequately handle the needs of a nonresidential use. Failure to
provide or maintain off-street loading spaces when they are necessary to serve
the development is a violation of this article. In no instance shall an off-
street loading space occupy a required off-street parking space or interrupt
the safe operation of vehicles or circulation of pedestrian or bicycles. Each
off-street loading space shall be designed with an appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner that will least interfere
with traffic circulation.
      (3)   Location. No off-street loading space shall be located within a
required setback or within 30 feet of a street intersection.
      (4)   Dimensional standards for loading spaces. When off-street loading
spaces are provided, they shall comply with the following minimum requirements
(see
Figure 59, Off-Street Loading).
         (a)   Except for loading spaces used by semi-tractor trailers, off-
street loading spaces shall be at least ten feet wide and at least 30 feet
long.
         (b)   Off-street loading spaces used by semi-tractor trailers shall be
at least 70 feet long.
         (c)   Overhead clearance for an off-street loading space shall be at
least 15 feet.
         (d)   Off-street loading spaces shall be designed so that no backing
onto or from a public street is necessary.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1839.png]
 
Figure 59 - Off-Street Loading
DIVISION 8. SIGNAGE
§ 680 INTENT.
   (A)   This division provides guidance and standards for signage across the
town’s planning jurisdiction. The erection and maintenance of signs is
controlled and regulated in order to promote the health, safety, welfare,
convenience and enjoyment of travel on streets and sidewalks.
   (B)   These provisions are also intended to balance between the promotion of
beneficial commerce, protection of free speech and the protection of community
character.
   (C)   Except as noted below, this division does not regulate the content of
signs. Commercial speech may be freely substituted for other kinds of speech,
including religious and political speech.
   (D)   More specifically, these standards are intended to:
      (1)   Promote traffic safety;
      (2)   Avoid interference with protected free speech;
      (3)   Regulate the content of signs to the least extent possible and only
when absolutely necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (4)   Regulate off-premises signage in accordance with state law and
federal jurisprudence;
      (5)   Ensure that any content-based signage standards serve a compelling
public purpose and are as narrowly-tailored as possible;
      (6)   Promote economic development and beneficial commerce;
      (7)   Ensure residents and visitors can locate desired goods, services
and destinations;
      (8)   Avoid conflicts between advertising and public safety signage;
      (9)   Reflect the aesthetic character and design quality anticipated in
the town’s adopted policy guidance; and
      (10)   Minimize any detrimental effects of signage on adjacent
properties.
§ 680.1SIGN CONTENT.
   The intent of this ordinance is not to regulate the content of speech.
Commercial speech may be freely substituted for non-commercial speech and vice
versa on any sign allowed by this ordinance.
§ 681 APPLICABILITY.
   Except for the sign types exempted from these standards identified in §
682, Signs, exempt from permit requirements, all signs shall be constructed,
erected, affixed, placed, posted, painted, repainted, hung or otherwise
established only in accordance with the standards in this section.
§ 682 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following forms of signage shall not be subject to these signage
standards, but may be subject to other applicable standards in this ordinance,
such as the requirement to obtain a building permit. Applicants shall be
responsible for securing all required permits prior to erecting or modifying
any of the following forms of excluded signage:
   (A)   Fence-wrap signs affixed to fences surrounding a construction site in
accordance with the standards in G.S. § 160D-908;
   (B)   Legal notices required by governmental bodies, public utilities or
civic associations;
   (C)   Governmental signage, including flags, street signs, traffic warning
signs and other signage provided solely by governmental agencies for public
health and safety provided that the setbacks, and dimensional requirements of
this ordinance are met;
   (D)   Building cornerstones, historical plaques or grave markers;
   (E)   Signage associated with public transit stops;
   (F)   Holiday displays on lots within all zoning districts;
   (G)   Historic markers;
   (H)   Signage that is not visible from any off-site areas (e.g., entirely
enclosed by opaque walls that prevent the visibility of signage from any off-
site areas);
   (I)   Signage associated with off-street parking spaces or the prohibition
of parking in certain locations like fire lanes, bus lanes or loading zones;
and
   (J)   Flags are allowed provided:
      (1)   A maximum of two signs per business or residence;
      (2)   No individual flag shall exceed 60 square feet in area;
      (3)   Flag poles shall not exceed 30 feet in height;
      (4)   Flags shall not be located in a sight triangle or site line; and
      (5)   The flags are not feather flags.
§ 683 PROHIBITED SIGN TYPES.
   The following signs, sign construction and displays are prohibited
throughout the town’s jurisdiction:
   (A)   Outdoor advertising, except for outdoor advertising lawfully
established prior to July 1, 2022, which may be permitted to continue as a
nonconforming use only in accordance with
Article 8, Nonconformities, and G.S. § 160D-912;
   (B)   Off-premises signage;
   (C)   Moving signs, excluding flags, banners and clocks;
   (D)   Flashing, scrolling, twirling or blinking signs except electronic
message boards;
   (E)   Gas- or air-filled balloons, figures and other inflatable signs;
   (F)   Signs on the roof or above the parapet of a building;
   (G)   Any sign which the Town Planner determines obstructs the view of
bicyclists, pedestrians or motorists using any street, approach to any street
intersection, sidewalk, public trail or which interferes with the effectiveness
of or obscures any traffic sign, device or signal;
   (H)   Signs, lights, rotating features, words and other devices, which
resemble or may be erroneously construed as traffic signals, traffic signs or
emergency vehicle lights;
   (I)   Illuminated or highly reflective signs that law enforcement determines
hampers the vision of motorists, pedestrians or bicyclists;
   (J)   Any sign which interferes with free passage from or obstructs any fire
escape, downspout, door, stairway, ladder or opening intended as a means of
ingress or egress;
   (K)   Any sign placed on a utility pole, street sign post, traffic signal
support, hydrant, bridge, tree, aspect of public infrastructure or street
paving that is not installed or approved by an appropriate governmental agency;
   (L)   Signs with speakers intended for audio playback;
   (M)   Use of vinyl or fabric material over or around a cabinet sign frame;
and
   (N)   Feather flags.
§ 684 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Permit required. Unless exempted by or prohibited by these standards,
all signage shall obtain approval of a zoning permit prior to establishment or
modification.
   (B)   Dimensions and measurement. All sign heights, maximum face area and
related dimensional requirements shall be determined in accordance with §
1029, Signage Measurement. (See Figures 81, Sign Measurement, and 82, Sign
Height.)
   (C)   Location and placement. All signs shall conform to these standards.
      (1)   Permitted signs shall be located outside of the street right-of-
way, behind sidewalk areas and outside of required sight distance triangles,
except where encroachments are specifically permitted by the provisions of this
ordinance.
       (2)   All attached signs shall be mounted and attached to buildings in a
secure manner and shall be maintained in good repair for safety and appearance.
      (3)   No person other than persons authorized by the town shall damage,
trim, destroy or remove trees, shrubs or other vegetation located within the
public right-of-way of any street or road for the purpose of placing a sign or
increasing or enhancing the visibility of a sign; nor shall such work be
performed on property that is not under the ownership or control of the person
performing or responsible for such work, unless done pursuant to the express
authorization of the person owning the property where such trees or shrubs are
located.
   (D)   Signs in the right-of-way. No sign shall be permitted within a street
right-of-way except in accordance with the standards in this section.
      (1)   Only the following signs may be permitted in a street right-of-way:
         (a)   Governmental signage erected by the town or the county;
         (b)   Signage erected by NCDOT;
         (c)   Emergency warning signage erected by a governmental agency,
public utility or contractor performing work within the right-of-way; or
         (d)   Political signs. (See §
689.2, Political Signs.)
      (2)   In cases where signs permitted within a street right-of-way are
located above a sidewalk or vehicular travel way, the sign shall maintain a
minimum vertical clearance of at least nine feet above the sidewalk and 12 feet
above the paving, curb, gutter or grade, as appropriate.
      (3)   In the event the establishment or realignment of a street results
in an existing sign becoming wholly or partially within the right-of-way in
violation of these standards, the sign shall be removed at the expense of the
person or agency establishing or realigning the street.
      (4)   Removal of illegal signs in rights-of-way and public properties.
         (a)   The Town Planner may remove any sign placed on public property
or within any public right-of-way in violation of this ordinance.
         (b)   Signage determined to be in violation of this ordinance and
removed from public property or a public right-of-way shall be discarded.
         (c)   Penalties may be levied for each such illegal sign as prescribed
in
Article 9, Enforcement.
   (E)   Material and structural requirements. All signs shall conform to these
standards.
      (1)   All signs, except those protected by glass or other transparent
cover, shall be constructed of materials that are permanent in nature and that
will not rapidly deteriorate, fade, fall apart or in any way become a hazard to
the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   All permanently installed signs shall be able to resist normal
loads from positive and negative wind pressure, snow and other conditions as
required by the State Building Code.
      (3)   The Town Planner may require sign load calculations and attachment
design from a professional engineer licensed by the state, and require the same
engineer to certify the sign’s installation in accordance with all applicable
specifications.
   (F)   Sign illumination. Signs may be externally or internally lit in full
compliance with all applicable lighting standards in this ordinance and the
State Building Code. The following forms of illumination shall be prohibited:
      (1)   Neon signage, excluding “Open” signs;
      (2)   Flashing or intermittent illumination;
      (3)   No indirect or internally illuminated sign shall have only partial
illumination for a period of more than 30 successive days; and
      (4)   Beacons and searchlights.
   (G)   Changeable copy except electronic message boards. Areas devoted to
changeable copy on a sign shall be subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Changeable copy areas may only be located on monument or wall
signs.
      (2)   No more than 50% of the sign face area may be devoted to changeable
copy area.
      (3)   As a means of avoiding distractions for drivers, bicyclists and
pedestrians, the display of changeable copy shall not change more than once per
minute.
      (4)   Outdoor advertising signs shall not include areas devoted to
changeable copy.
      (5)   Signage copy shall not be animated and shall not blink, scroll,
flash or have other moving effects. This provision shall not restrict the copy
from changing from one message to another.
   (H)   Sign maintenance.
      (1)   All signs shall be kept free from defective or missing parts or
peeling paint.
      (2)   The Town Planner may require the painting, repair or alteration of
a sign, at the owner’s expense, if such sign constitutes a hazard to the public
health, safety or general welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation or obsolescence.
      (3)   Written notice of such repair shall be given to the owner in
accordance with the procedures in
Article 9, Enforcement.
   (I)   Inspections.
      (1)   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the town.
      (2)   The Town Planner or a designee shall be authorized to enter at all
reasonable times upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the
provisions of this ordinance are being obeyed.
   (J)   Damaged signs prohibited.
      (1)   Surface appearance. No sign shall have more than 20% of its surface
area covered with disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint or poster paper
for a period of more than 30 consecutive days.
      (2)   Broken displays. No sign shall remain with a bent or broken display
area, broken supports, loose appendages or struts or stand more than 15 degrees
from the perpendicular for a period of more than 30 consecutive days.
      (3)   Destroyed and damaged signs.
         (a)   Signs established prior to July 1, 2022, that are either damaged
beyond repair or destroyed shall be replaced within 60 days of being damaged or
destroyed.
         (b)   The replacement sign shall be built to the same or smaller size
and specifications as the damaged or destroyed sign.
   (K)   Sign removal. The following signs may be removed by the town.
      (1)   Substandard signs.
         (a)   The owners of any sign judged to be substandard by a building
inspector, engineer or the Town Planner shall be notified in writing and shall
have 30 days in which to make repairs.
         (b)   Failure to comply with such notification within 30 days is a
violation of this ordinance and the town may remove such sign at the expense of
the owner or lessee thereof plus administrative fees.
      (2)   Signs on public property.
         (a)   Any non-governmental sign installed or placed on public property
or within a public right-of-way is subject to confiscation and disposal.
         (b)   The town shall have the right to recover the full costs of
removal and disposal from the person placing such a sign.
      (3)   Illegal temporary signs.
         (a)   Any illegal temporary is subject to confiscation and disposal.
         (b)   The town shall have the right to recover the full costs of
removal and disposal from the person placing such a temporary sign.
§ 685 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs located on a lot in a residential district shall comply with the
standards in
Table 15 (see
Figure 60 for images of sign types).
Table 15 - Sign Standards for Lots in Residential Districts
Type of Sign Max. Number per Max. Sign Height  Max. Sign Face Additional
             Lot (#)         (lf) [1]          Area (sf) [2]  Standards [3]
Table 15 - Sign Standards for Lots in Residential Districts
                                                       Max.
                                          Max. Number  Sign   Max. Sign     Additional
Type of Sign                              per Lot (#)  Height Face Area     Standards
                                                       (lf)   (sf) [2]      [3]
                                                       [1]
Electronic message boards [6]
Monument sign
   Single-family detached dwelling and [4]          [4]    [4]           [4] [5]
duplex
                                                                            Shall be
                                                                            setback at
                                                                            least 20
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            street ROW
                                          1 per street                      and at
   All other principal structures      frontage     6      30 per side   least 10
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            lot lines
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            internally
                                                                            illuminated
Portable sign
   Residential principal structure     N/A          N/A    N/A           N/A
                                                                            Shall be
                                                                            located at
                                                                            least five
                                                                            feet from a
                                                                            lot line
                                          1/                                and at
   All other principal structures      nonresidenti 3      24” x 36” least ten
                                          al tenant                         feet from
                                                                            the street
                                                                            right-of-
                                                                            way
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            illuminated
Projecting sign                           N/A          N/A    N/A           N/A
Pylon (freestanding) sign
                                                                            Shall be
                                                                            setback at
                                                                            least 20
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            street ROW
   Single-family detached dwelling and                                   and at
duplex                                    1            6      4             least 10
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            lot lines
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            illuminated
                                                                            [5]
                                                                            Shall be
                                                                            setback at
                                                                            least 20
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            street ROW
                                                                            and at
   All other principal structures      1            6      16 per side   least 10
                                                                            feet from
                                                                            lot lines
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            internally
                                                                            illuminated
Wall sign
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be on an
                                                                            accessory
   Residential principal structure     1            5      4             structure
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            illuminated
                                                                            [5]
                                                                            Shall not
                                                                            be on an
                                          1/                  Max. of 16    accessory
   All other principal structures      nonresidenti 7      for entire    structure
                                          al tenant           development   Shall not
                                                                            be
                                                                            internally
                                                                            illuminated
Window sign                               N/A          N/A    N/A           N/A
Notes:
[1] lf = linear feet.
[2] sf = square feet.
[3] All signs shall also comply with the general requirements for all signage in §
684, General Requirements for All Signage.
[4] Up to one monument sign allowed on commonly-owned land adjacent to each entrance to
a residential development or subdivision, subject to the standards applicable to all
other principal structures.
[5] Changeable copy prohibited.
[6] See §
687, Electronic Message Boards.
 
§ 686 SIGNS IN NONRESIDENTIAL AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   Signs located on a lot in a nonresidential or planned unit development
district shall comply with the standards in
Table 16. (See
Figure 60 for images of sign types.)
Table 16 - Sign Standards for Lots in Nonresidential and Planned Unit
Development Districts
Type of Sign Max. Number of per Max. Sign Height  Max. Sign Face Additional
             (#)                (lf) [1]          Area (sf) [2]  Standards [3]
Table 16 - Sign Standards for Lots in Nonresidential and Planned Unit Development Districts
                                   Max. Number of Max. Sign Max. Sign
Type of Sign                       per (#)        Height    Face Area     Additional Standards [3]
                                                  (lf) [1]  (sf) [2]
Electronic Message Boards
Per §
687, Electronic Message Boards
Monument Sign
                                                                          Shall be set back at least 5 feet from a street
Nonresidential and mixed use       1/street       6         30 per side   right-of-way and 15 from a side or rear lot line
development                        frontage [7]                           Shrubs, flowers or ground cover shall be planted
                                                                          around the entire base the sign
All other development
   Single-family detached and   [8]            [8]       [8]           [8] [9]
duplex
                                                                          Shall be setback at least 5 feet from street ROW
                                   1 per street                           and at least 15 feet from side or rear lot lines
   All others                   frontage       6         30 per side   Shrubs, flowers or ground cover shall be planted
                                                                          around the entire base the sign
                                                                          Shall not be internally illuminated
Projecting Sign [5]
                                                  Below the
                                                  top of
                                                  the roof,
                                                  soffit,
Nonresidential and mixed use       1/nonresiden   eave or   12 per side   No portion of the sign may be located within three
development                        tial tenant    parapet,                feet of the street paving
                                                  whichever
                                                  is
                                                  highest
                                                  [6]
All other development              N/A            N/A       N/A           N/A
Portable Sign
Nonresidential and mix-use         1/nonresiden   3         24” x 36” Shall be located at least five feet from a lot line
development                        tial tenant                            and at least ten feet from the street right-of-way
All other development
   Single-family detached and   N/A            N/A       N/A           N/A
duplex
                                                                          Shall be located at least five feet from a lot line
   All others                   1              3         24” x 36” and at least ten feet from the street right-of-way
                                                                          Shall not be illuminated
Pylon (Freestanding) Sign
                                                                          Shall be set back at least 20 feet from street ROW
Nonresidential and mixed use       1/street       6         30 per side   and at least 10 feet from lot lines
development                        frontage [7]                           Shrubs, flowers or ground cover shall be planted
                                                                          around the entire base the sign
                                                                          Shall be set back at least 20 feet from street ROW
All other development              1              6         4             and at least 10 feet from lot lines
                                                                          Shall not be illuminated [9]
Wall Sign
Nonresidential and mixed use development
                                                  Below the 25% of
                                   1/             top of    facade; up to
   Primary facade               nonresidential the roof, a maximum of
                                   tenant         soffit,   200 for       Shall not project more than 12” outwards from the
                                                  eave or   entire facade wall
                                                  parapet,  [4]
   Side or rear facade facing a                whichever
street                             1              is        100
                                                  highest
All other development
   Single-family detached and   1              5         4             Shall not be on an accessory structure
duplex                                                                    Shall not be illuminated [9]
                                                            Max. of 16    Shall not be on an accessory structure
   All others                   1/tenant       7         for entire    Shall not be internally illuminated [9]
                                                            developme nt
Window Sign
Nonresidential and mixed use       1 per window   Top of    25% of the
development                        or glass door  window or window or     Shall not be illuminated [9]
                                                  door      door [10]
All other development              N/A            N/A       N/A           N/A
Notes:
[1] “lf” = linear feet.
[2] “sf” = square feet.
[3] All signs shall also comply with the general requirements for all signage in §
684, General Requirements, for all signage.
[4] In the case of multi-tenant buildings, each tenant wall sign shall not exceed 25% of their individual store front.
[5] Includes signs on awnings.
[6] Projecting signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of at least 9 feet above the grade or a sidewalk.
[7] May be increased to two signs along any one lot frontage of more than 600 linear feet.
[8] Up to one monument sign allowed on commonly-owned land adjacent to each entrance to a residential development or
subdivision, subject to the standards applicable to all other principal structures.
[9] Changeable copy prohibited.
[10] Multi-pane windows or doors shall be treated as one window or door.
 
 
Figure 60 - Sign Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1841.png]
 
 
§ 687 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARDS.
Design Standards for Electronic Message Boards
Design Standards for Electronic Message Boards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1843.png]
 
                A wall or ground sign, or portion thereof that displays
                electronic, non-pictorial or text information that may or may
                not change. Sign content is displayed by light emitting diodes
(A) Definition  (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination
                devices arranged in a matrix within the display area.
                Electronic message boards (“EMBs”) may display animation or
                imagery that appears to move.
(B) Zoning      AR, R-20 through PUD OI* NB     CB  HB  I
districts where R-9M
permitted       No [1]           Yes Yes No [1] Yes Yes Yes
(C) Dimensional standards
Maximum brightness               465 lumens per square foot during daytime
                                 hours
Maximum EMB face area            In accordance with wall or ground sign
                                 standards, as appropriate [2]
Maximum height                   In accordance with wall or ground sign
                                 standards, as appropriate [1]
Maximum number of EMBs per lot   One per lot or development
Maximum percentage of total sign Lesser of: 32 square feet or 50% of the total
face area devoted to an EMB      allowable sign face area for the type of sign
                                 proposed (i.e., wall, ground)
Minimum separation from another  35 linear feet
EMB
Minimum separation of EMB from   150 linear feet
residentially-zoned land
Minimum static hold time between 1 minute [3]
message changes
NOTE: EMBs are permitted on nonresidential buildings such as, but not limited
to, churches and schools.
 
§ 688 UNIFIED SIGN PLAN; REQUIREMENTS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The owners or developers of two or more contiguous lots or any multi-
tenant use of a commercial property, including, but not limited to, shopping
centers, convenience centers or office complexes, planned unit developments and
mixed use developments shall submit a unified sign plan for approval as part of
their site plan application, or at a later date. No sign permit application
will be accepted for such property or use until a unified sign plan is approved
by the Town Planner.
   (B)   The application for a unified sign plan shall indicate the following:
      (1)   Colors;
      (2)   Letter/graphics style;
      (3)   Location of each sign;
      (4)   Materials to be used in construction;
      (5)   Maximum dimensions and proportions; and
      (6)   Other standards imposed by the applicant.
   (C)   A copy of the approved unified sign plan, including any amendments,
must be kept on file with the town.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant and/or property owner
to enforce the terms of the approved unified sign plan.
   (E)   After approval of a unified sign plan, no sign shall be erected,
placed, painted or maintained except in conformance with the approved plan.
§ 689 EXISTING SIGNS NOT CONFORMING TO UNIFIED SIGN PLAN.
   If any new or amended unified sign plan is filed for a property on which
existing signs are located, the amended plan shall include a schedule for
bringing into conformance, within three years, all signs not conforming to the
proposed amended plan or to the requirements of this article in effect on the
date of submission.
§ 689.1 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signage is permitted on a lot or site in accordance with the
following standards.
   (A)   Up to one temporary sign shall be permitted on a lot or development
site. Political signs meeting the standards of §
689.2, Political Signs, are permitted in addition to one temporary sign.
   (B)   A temporary sign may have a maximum sign face area of four square feet
per side.
   (C)   In no instance shall a temporary sign be located within a right-of-way
or have a height exceeding four feet above the grade at the base of the sign.
   (D)   Temporary signs shall not be located within required sight distance
triangles but are permitted within required landscaping areas, provided they do
not impact the performance objectives of required landscaping.
   (E)   Temporary signs shall not be internally or externally illuminated.
   (F)   There shall be no maximum duration for the placement of a temporary
sign, and nothing shall prohibit the replacement of one temporary sign with
another temporary sign.
§ 689.2 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   Political signs shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   May not be illuminated;
   (B)   Shall not be located on any trees, utility poles, publicly-owned
property or within a public street right-of-way, except NCDOT rights-of-way in
accordance with G.S. § 136-32;
   (C)   May not exceed four square feet in area and four feet in height, if
freestanding; and
   (D)   May be displayed in a right-of-way only during a period beginning with
the established filing date for an election and concluding five days after the
election. In the event of a runoff election, political signs for the candidates
involved may remain on display until five days after the runoff election.
§ 689.3 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section or specific provision or standard of this ordinance is found
by a court to be invalid for any reason, the decision of the court shall not
affect the validity of any other section, provision or standard of these
regulations except the ordinance in question. The other portions of this
division not affected by the decision of the court shall remain in full force
and effect, even if the result of such action results in less speech being
allowed.
DIVISION 9. SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION
§ 690 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLES.
   All multi-family, mobile home park, office, commercial, institutional and
industrial developments should provide secure, safe and sanitary facilities for
the storage and pickup of solid waste and recyclables. Such facilities shall be
convenient to collection and shall be appropriate to the type and size of the
development or use being served. All solid waste and recyclable storage
facilities shall be screened by a solid wall, fence, tight evergreen hedge or
combination of a wall, fence or hedge in accordance with article provisions.
Such screening shall be of sufficient height and design to effectively screen
the facility from the view from adjacent properties and streets. A locked gate
shall be provided. The enclosure shall be paved with concrete or asphalt (or
other bituminous surface).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1845.png]
 
Figure 61 - Solid Waste Dumpster Enclosures 
DIVISION 10. TRANSPORTATION IMPACT ANALYSIS
§ 6100 TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS (TIA) SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The town is committed to maintaining and improving the
quality of life for current and future citizens. A major factor affecting the
quality of life has become traffic congestion along the major thoroughfares and
local streets within urbanizing areas. By requiring a traffic impact analysis
(TIA), the town can evaluate the effect proposed development will have on the
town’s existing traffic system and enable the town to require specific
improvements. The intent of this section is to provide developers with a clear
policy as to the town’s TIA expectations and to ensure that all developments
are treated equally through the establishment of specific guidelines and
improvement requirements.
   (B)   Requirement thresholds.
      (1)   Residential subdivision proposing 50 lots/units or more, no matter
how many phases are proposed.
      (2)   Proposed nonresidential subdivision which generates an average
daily traffic count of 1,000 plus vehicles per day or 100 plus trips during
peak hour of generator. This traffic count must be based on the latest version
of the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
      (3)   Any residential or nonresidential development requiring a special
use permit or site plan approval which generates an average daily traffic count
of 1,000 plus vehicles per day or 100 plus trips during peak hour of generator.
This traffic count must be based on the latest version of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation Manual.
      (4)   Note #1: The count is cumulative; as a proposed development reaches
the threshold, a TIA will be required for the entire development. As new phases
are proposed and once a development has reached the threshold, an additional
TIA will be conducted for each additional phase.
      (5)   Note #2: Failure to meet all requirements listed within this
section may constitute disapproval of the development request.
   (C)   Retention of expert assistance and reimbursement by applicant.
      (1)   The town shall identify consultants and/or experts who are able to
prepare, review and evaluate the traffic impact of the proposed development.
      (2)   The town will present a list of the consultants identified in
subsection (A) above to the applicant. The applicant shall select one firm from
the list to conduct a TIA for the applicant’s proposed development at the
applicant’s expense.
      (3)   The town, applicant and consultant shall agree in writing to the
scope of work and costs of the TIA. The selected consultant shall provide draft
and final versions of the TIA directly to the town.
      (4)   The town may retain a consultant to review and evaluate the
applicant’s TIA. Any cost associated with the town’s review shall be paid by
the applicant. The applicant will provide funds for the review at subsection
(C)(2) above. The town will hold the funds in escrow until either used for a
TIA review or returned to the applicant.
   (D)   Traffic impact analysis guidelines. All traffic impact analyses shall
be completed in accordance with the guidelines listed in NCDOT’s congestion
management analysis guidelines and NCDOT regulations.
   (E)   Improvement requirements.
      (1)   Left turn lane, right turn lane and/or right turn taper. Based on
requirements of the NCDOT Driveway Manual or other NCDOT standards.
      (2)   Additional right-of-way. If a subject development falls along a
road projected to be widened by NCDOT or an adopted town or county plan,
additional right-of-way along the development’s road frontage shall be
dedicated as deemed acceptable by NCDOT.
      (3)   Offsite improvements.
         (a)   If a road segment or intersection is currently performing at
level of service (LOS) D or better and is projected to perform at LOS E or F at
the time of build-out, improvements to maintain the road segment or
intersection at LOS D must be included.
         (b)   If a road segment or intersection is currently performing at
level of service (LOS) E or F and is projected to continue to perform at LOS E
or F at the time of build-out, the TIA shall demonstrate how an LOS D could be
achieved and also specify what improvements must be made to ensure that the
road segment or intersection is not degraded any further than the current
levels.
      (4)   Other necessary improvements.
         (a)   Additional improvements may be required based on the TIA
recommendations related to topographic/environmental conditions, sight
distance, street offsets, conflicting movements, existing traffic accident
counts, circulation and other potential traffic issues resulting from the
proposed development.
         (b)   Additionally, the Planning Board may determine that additional
improvements are necessary to ensure the safety and welfare of the town’s
citizens and travelers.
DIVISION 11. SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENTATION CONTROL AND STORMWATER  MANAGEMENT
§ 6110 SEDIMENTATION, EROSION CONTROL AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   All subdivisions and site-planned developments shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention; and
   (B)   
Chapter 152, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation.
DIVISION 12. MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 6120 MANDATORY DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The standards and guidelines for mixed use and planned unit developments are
listed in
Table 17. Mixed use and planned unit developments must also meet the design
standards found in Divisions 1 through 11 of this article.
 
Table 17 - Mandatory Design Standards
(A) Blocks, Buildings and Street Networks, §
6121
(B) Block Design, §
6122
(C) Site Design for Multiple Building Developments, §
6123
(D) Street Networks, §
6124
(E) Pedestrian Passthrough Design, §
6125
(F) Required Public Amenities, §
6126
 
§ 6121 BLOCKS, BUILDINGS AND STREET NETWORKS.
   The overall layout of a successful mixed use development is one that
generates a high level of pedestrian activity. The framework for a pedestrian-
oriented layout has three main components:
   (A)   A block structure that reflects a walkable arrangement and positioning
of uses;
   (B)   Building placement, orientation and design to enhance the pedestrian
environment and streetscape within that structure; and
   (C)   Internal street patterns that define block edges, create continuous
pedestrian connections and integrate pedestrian travel with other modes of
transportation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1847.png]
 
Figure 62 - Example of an Acceptable Block Pattern
§ 6122 BLOCK DESIGN.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   Block standards shall apply to all development that contains four
acres or more of gross land area. Where these standards are in conflict with §
730, Roads, the standard requiring the shorter block face, length or area shall
control.
      (2)   All development shall be arranged in a pattern of interconnecting
streets and blocks (Figures
62 and
63), while maintaining respect for the natural landscape and floodplains.
      (3)   Each block face shall range between a minimum of 200 feet and a
maximum of 600 feet. This maximum requirement does not apply along state roads.
      (4)   The average block face across each development site and the entire
mixed use zone district shall be a maximum of 500 feet. This average does not
have to include block lengths along state roads.
      (5)   For block faces that exceed 400 feet, a lighted mid-block
pedestrian passthrough shall be provided connecting opposite sides of block
faces. This requirement does not apply along state roads. Passthrough shall
remain open at all times.
      (6)   An applicant may submit alternative block standards, provided that
such alternative achieves the intent of the above standards and procedures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1849.png]
 
Figure 63 – Example of Block Standards
   (B)    Block design requirements.
      (1)   Enhanced drive aisles should be used to frame block frontages that
consist entirely of surface parking areas. Enhanced drive isles are regarded as
those with medians on either side containing sidewalks and street trees 40 feet
on center. In general, the adjacent medians should be 12 feet in width.
      (2)   In blocks that contain nonresidential uses, mid-block through-
alleys are encouraged to enable secondary vehicle access.
      (3)   Pedestrian passthroughs should incorporate artwork or display
windows and should be designed so they cannot be closed or locked.
      (4)   Pedestrian passthroughs should be used to connect separate
buildings or link customer parking in front of buildings.
      (5)   A block is defined as a tract of land bounded by streets, or a
combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
shorelines of waterways or boundary lines of municipalities.
      (6)   For multiple lot developments incorporating internal streets,
important street vistas (such as along gateways and primary pedestrian streets)
should terminate in a focal point, such as a building, architectural or
landscape feature.
   (C)   Building(s) entrances design and orientation. All buildings and groups
of buildings shall follow the design standards found in
Article 6, Division 2, Design Standards. In case of a conflict, the stricter
standards shall apply.
§ 6123 SITE DESIGN FOR MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   All buildings shall be arranged and grouped so that their primary
orientation complements adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Adjacent buildings shall relate in similarity of scale, bulk,
height, architectural style and/or configuration to existing development, as
applicable, and consistent with one of the following site layouts:
         (a)   Buildings orient toward, frame and enclose a main pedestrian
and/or vehicle access corridor within the development site, including an entry/
spine street (Figures
64 and
66);
         (b)   Buildings orient toward, frame and enclose on at least three
sides, parking areas, public spaces or other on-site amenities (Figure
65);
         (c)   Buildings orient toward and frame the corner of a perimeter or
internal street intersection (Figures
64 and
66); or
         (d)   Buildings orient to adjoining development, respecting adjoining
exterior street alignment(s).
      (3)   For similarly used properties, the grade of adjacent lots shall
match where the properties meet. If there is a significant grade difference,
development shall create an attractive transition using creative grading and
landscaping or a decorative retaining wall, incorporating vehicular and
pedestrian cross-access.
         (a)   Unscreened concrete retaining walls or rock-covered slopes
(i.e., rip-rap) are not permitted.
      (4)   Applicants may submit an alternative site layout and building
orientation pattern, provided such pattern achieves the intent of the above
standards.
      (5)   Strictly linear or “strip” commercial developments are prohibited.
Figure 64 - Buildings Framing an Entrance               Figure 65 - Buildings
Framing a Space
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1851.png]
Figure 66 - Buildings Oriented Toward a Spine Street
§ 6124 STREET NETWORKS.
   Mixed use centers (including planned unit developments) are intended to
incorporate all modes of transportation (motorized vehicles, bicycles, transit
and pedestrians) both safely and efficiently.
   (A)   Since mixed use and planned unit developments tend to create higher
traffic impacts than single use development, mixed use and planned unit
developments will be limited to locations along arterial and collector streets,
with the cross-street for an arterial being no less than a collector. This
minimizes the impact on adjacent residential neighborhoods. A mixed use center
has the potential to reduce traffic impacts by providing alternatives to
automobile trips within the neighborhood and convenient connections to the
regional transit and bicycle systems. Additionally, a mixed use development
will produce more internal automobile trips than a convention development.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Basic design. All streets shall be designed to meet NCDOT complete
streets standards.
      (2)   Driveways. Driveway spacing shall comply with NCDOT subdivision
standards.
      (3)   Access. A minimum of one access point per property ownership shall
be permitted, which may be jointly shared with adjacent properties.
      (4)   Traffic study. A traffic impact study may be required if the
Project Review Committee or Town’s Engineer determines a need.
      (5)   Connectivity. Streets shall interconnect within the development and
with adjoining development as provided in §
730, Roads. Street stubs shall be provided with development adjacent to open
land to provide for future connections. Streets shall be planned with due
regard to the designated corridors on any adopted thoroughfare plan.
      (6)   On-street parking. All on-street parking should be parallel. Angle
parking is permitted in front of high traffic retail locations and where the
posted speed is 20 mph or less.
      (7)   Street pattern. Streets shall be laid out in a pattern that
conforms to an adopted small area plan or concept plan.
      (8)   Curbs and drainage. Standard curbing is required along all streets
with on-street parking. Mountable curbing is permitted around center medians,
roundabouts and other features in order to facilitate the infrequent use by
vehicles with larger turning radii. All drainage grates, if provided, must be
safe for bicyclists (grating must be perpendicular or diagonal to the street
centerline).
      (9)   Culs-de-sac. The use of culs-de-sac in place of complete through
street connections is strongly discouraged. However, when a cul-de-sac is
determined to be the most practicable option, it shall not exceed 500 feet in
length.
      (10)   Signalization. Signalized access will only be allowed when agreed
to by the Town’s Engineer or his or her designee and only when traffic impacts
are forecast to meet signal warrants as identified in the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD). Pedestrian signals will be allowed when
traffic and/or pedestrian impacts are forecast by the traffic study to meet
signal warrants as defined in the MUTCD. The installation of traffic and
pedestrian signals for proposed development will not be the responsibility of
the town. Signalized access will only be allowed for streets constructed to
NCDOT or town standards.
      (11)   Blocks. Mixed use and planned unit developments will be based on a
block structure in order to provide connectivity and to allow block length
combinations that provide flexibility in providing pedestrian access and
signalized access when warranted. Block lengths, as measured from curb face to
curb face, will be a minimum of 200 feet and a maximum of 600 feet, with the
average of all block lengths in a mixed use development not to exceed 500 feet.
No vehicular access will be allowed into a PUD/MUD within 600 feet of two
intersecting principal arterials or higher classified roadways or as allowed by
the Town’s Engineer.
      (12)   Pedestrian access. Pedestrian and/or bicycle access into the site
will be required within 200 feet of two intersecting principal arterials.
      (13)   Driveway length. Driveways that provide access to parking lots
from perimeter streets into PUDs/MUDs shall be of sufficient length to allow
vehicles to enter the center and not be obstructed from on-site conflicts in
which traffic queues onto the public or private street system. Typical stem
lengths can be found in
Figure 67.
Figure 67 - Guide to Driveway Length                  Figure 68 - Illustration
of an Entry Drive
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1853.png]
 
      (14)   Main entry. Entry/spine streets are required for all MUDs and
PUDs. Entry/spine streets shall provide their main access from arterial streets
into the center and are intended to clearly identify a driver has entered a
“unique” area.
      (15)   Curb extensions. Curb extensions/bump-outs shall be required on
all public and private street intersections where on-street parking is allowed
(
Figure 70). Curb extensions will not be allowed to extend across an on-street
bicycle lane or across a right-turn lane.
      (16)   Sight distance. Clear sight distances free from obstructions must
be maintained to allow vehicles to safely make turns at intersections and for
pedestrians to have adequate time to cross the street. Intersection design
shall meet MUTCD guidelines and may include enhanced crosswalks with
directional ramps, pavement treatment, median refuge islands and pedestrian
warning signs.
      (17)   Pedestrian safety. Pedestrian refuge areas or medians are required
on all roadways classified as major collector and above. All pedestrian
crossings (
Figure 69) shall comply with the standards set forth in the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and/or NCDOT
Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards (latest edition) whichever is
the stricter rule.
      (18)   Traffic calming. The use of traffic calming devices such as raised
intersections, landscaping bump-outs, horizontal speed bumps and traffic
circles are encouraged as alternatives to conventional traffic control
measures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1855.png]
 
Figure 69 - Pedestrian Crossing                Figure 70 - Curb Extensions
      (19)   Curb-return radii. Curbs should be designed to reduce pedestrian
crossing times along all streets requiring sidewalks. In general, curb radii
should not exceed 20 feet.
      (20)   Crosswalk patterns. Delineated crosswalks with patterned surface
can be effective traffic control devices; however, they should not be used
indiscriminately. It has been shown that pedestrians may develop a false sense
of security regarding their use of a marked location and step into the crossing
without adequately checking for oncoming vehicles.
      (21)   Storage lanes. Left- or right-turn storage lanes may be required
along arterials or parkways and along entry/spine streets that provide access
to a PUD or MUD. The specific design of such lanes shall meet the criteria
established by the Town Engineer.
§ 6125 PEDESTRIAN PASSTHROUGH DESIGN.
   (A)   Where a block face is greater than 400 feet, pedestrian access shall
be provided through the block or building(s) at a distance no greater than 400
feet. The pedestrian passthrough (
Figure 71) must stay open, regardless of whether businesses are open or closed.
The administrator may waive the requirement for pedestrian passthrough in cases
where there is limited viability for pedestrian access, such as adjacency to an
expressway or freeway.
   (B)   Alleys and service areas shall not be considered to be pedestrian
passthroughs, although alleys may be designed with pedestrian walkways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1857.png]
 
Figure 71 - Pedestrian Passthrough
§ 6126 REQUIRED PUBLIC AMENITIES.
   (A)    Minimum requirements. All developments five acres or greater shall
incorporate at least two of the following on-site amenities or features:
      (1)    Patio or plaza with seating areas. Such a space shall have a
minimum depth and width of ten feet and a minimum total area of 300 square
feet;
      (2)    Asphalt is prohibited as a surface material; use of decorative
pavers or textured, colored concrete is required;
      (3)   Patios and plazas shall include pedestrian amenities intended to
support these places as gathering areas;
      (4)   Landscaped mini-parks, squares or greens, provided such park or
green has a minimum depth and width of ten feet and a minimum total area of 650
square feet, and shall include pedestrian amenities intended to support these
places as gathering areas (Figures
72 and
73);
      (5)   Protected customer walkways, arcades or easily identifiable
building passthroughs containing window displays and intended for general
public access;
      (6)   Water features, such as a lake, pond or fountain, provided the
feature is easily accessed by pedestrians and includes or integrates seating
areas for pedestrians;
      (7)   Outdoor public art in an area that is visible from an adjacent
public sidewalk or street, and easily accessed for viewing by pedestrians;
      (8)   Any other well-designed area and/or focal feature that the Town
Planner finds is consistent with the intent of this subsection (A),
substantially enhances the development and serves as a gathering place for
residents, visitors, customers and employees is acceptable;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1859.png]
 
Figure 72 - Pedestrian Plaza                     Figure 73 - Outdoor “Room”
      (9)   When a building will be adjacent to a pedestrian plaza, patio,
mini-park, square or green as provided under this part (Figures
72 and
73), the building wall facing such outdoor amenity shall contain at least one
of the following elements:
         (a)   A building entry;
         (b)   Windows facing onto the outdoor amenity;
         (c)   Arcades along the edges of the outdoor amenity;
         (d)   Outdoor seating areas; or
         (e)   A similar feature that the Town Planner finds will bolster
security and encourage pedestrian use of the outdoor amenity.
      (10)   If the proposed development contains an existing or proposed
transit stop, the development shall include a covered structure compatible with
the surrounding architecture. A minimum of two 6-foot benches shall be
incorporated into the transit stop.
   (B)   Guidelines.
      (1)   Patios, plazas, mini-parks, squares and greens should be
proportionate in size to the development. Small-scale amenities are appropriate
for small developments, and large-scale amenities are appropriate for large
developments.
      (2)   Temporary stormwater detention ponds should not be regarded as a
water feature.
      (3)   In order to serve as a focal point, a feature should be visible,
become a functional part of the development and be easily recognizable as an
area that encourages outdoor assembly. It may be framed by a view corridor, be
placed on a highpoint or be visually related to a multi-use trail or other
walkway.
      (4)   Pedestrian amenities for patios and plazas, and for landscaped
mini-parks, squares or greens may include seating, lighting, special paving,
planting, food and flower vendors and artwork.
      (5)   A minimum of 25 linear feet of seating should be provided for every
1,000 square feet of open space.
      (6)   Seating should be more than 12 inches and less than 30 inches in
height and not less than 16 inches in depth. Seating more than 28 inches in
depth and accessible from two sides should count double.
      (7)   Moveable chairs are encouraged.
§ 6127 OPTIONAL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The following optional standards and guidelines for mixed use and planned
unit developments are listed in
Table 18. Every mixed use development is encouraged to follow at least one of
the optional design standards.
 
Table 18 - Optional Design Standards
(A) MUD/PUD Residential, §
6128
(B) Conservation Subdivision Residential Standards, §
6129
 
§ 6128 MUD/PUD RESIDENTIAL.
   The following standards and guidelines apply to residential structures in
MUDs and PUDs.
   (A)   All residential structures except one- and two-family homes shall
comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Entries. To provide privacy, all residential entrances within 15
feet of the sidewalk shall be raised from the finished grade (at the building
line) a minimum of one and one-half feet.
      (2)   Porches. Useable porches and stoops shall form the predominate
motif of the building design and be located on the front and/or side of the
building. Useable front porches shall be at least eight feet deep and 12 feet
in width.
      (3)   Garages. Garage doors are not permitted on the front elevation of
any dwelling (except one- and two-family dwellings) on a lot less than 60 feet
wide. A single car drive shall be placed on the side of the house accessing a
detached garage in the backyard of the property. Rear entry garages may be
placed on any width lot. All garages with more than two bays shall be turned
such that the bays are not visible from the street. The width of attached
garages shall not exceed 40% of the total building facade.
      (4)   Crawlspace. The crawlspace of buildings shall be enclosed. Brick,
rock, stone or stucco comprise the visible portion of the crawl space. Under no
circumstances shall gray smooth face concrete block be visible. For the space
beneath front porches, use lattice material.
      (5)   Optional townhome detailed design. All building elevations visible
from the street shall provide doors, porches, balconies and/or windows (
Figure 74). A minimum of 60% of front elevations, and a minimum of 30% of side
and rear building elevations, as applicable, shall meet this standard. “Percent
of elevation” is measured as the horizontal plane (lineal feet) containing
doors, porches, balconies, terraces and/or windows. This standard applies to
each full and partial building story.
      (6)   Setbacks. Developments shall follow the standards of the UDO but
may be reduced by up to 50% provided the reduction is justified in a written
narrative submitted with the application. All dimensions are subject to Fire
Code restrictions and may vary. For lots fronting on four-lane roads or
expressways, additional setback depth may be required.
      (7)   Rooftop equipment. All rooftop equipment shall be screened from
view.
      (8)   Mailboxes. Community mailboxes shall provide a covered area for
users and have four dedicated on- or off-street parking spaces.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1861.png]
Figure 74 - Townhouses Meeting the Standards of this Section
§ 6129 CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS.
   Cluster developments are permitted following the standards of
Article 7, Division 8, Conservation Subdivisions, provided that the mixed use
development meets the open space requirements of
Article 7, Division 4, Open Space.
ARTICLE 7. SUBDIVISIONS
DIVISION 1. INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
§ 710 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this article to provide an orderly process for division
of land into lots or parcels for the purpose of sale and/or building
development by property owners. It is also this article’s intent to ensure that
subdivided lots or parcels can be used safely to build on without danger to the
health, safety and general welfare of both the prospective or future owners in
the town’s community, and that subdivisions are provided with and provide for
adequate and efficient access and coordination of streets, water and/or sewage,
parks, schools, playgrounds and other public requirements and facilities where
appropriate.
§ 711 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The regulations of this article are adopted under the authority of
G.S. § 160D-801 which authorizes the town to regulate the subdivision of land.
   (B)   The regulations of this article shall govern each and every
subdivision of land within the town’s planning jurisdiction as now or hereafter
established.
§ 712 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided, platted or recorded, nor shall subdivided
lots or parcels be sold, offered for sale, used or occupied unless and until a
final plat of the subdivision has been approved under this article and has been
recorded by the County Register of Deeds. No lot or parcel resulting from a
division of land excluded from the definition of subdivision in §
1030, Defined Terms, shall be sold, offered for sale, used or occupied until
the Town Planner certifies that such division of land falls within one of the
exclusions listed in the definition of subdivision. No plat of any division of
land within the town’s corporate limits shall be filed or recorded by the
County Register of Deeds unless it contains the Town Planner’s certification
that the division of land has been approved under, or is not subject to, this
article.
   (B)   All property zoned RA, R-20 or R-15 shall only be platted under
Division 8, Conservation Subdivisions, below.
§ 713 PENALTIES FOR TRANSFERRING LOTS IN UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Any owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the town’s
corporate limits who subdivides his, her or their land in violation of this
article or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of or any other
use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been
properly approved under this article and recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor; and civil penalties
described in §
940, Civil Penalties.
   (B)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
   (C)   The town may bring an action for injunction of any illegal
subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon
appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending
party to comply with this article.
   (D)   Building permits required may be denied for lots that have been
illegally subdivided.
   (E)   In addition to other remedies, the town may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
§ 714 SUBDIVISIONS DISTINGUISHED.
    (A)   Minor subdivision. A minor subdivision shall include a division of
land of three or fewer lots, including any remaining residual parcel. Minor
subdivisions do not include the (i) creation of new roads; (ii) do not require
the extension of a town or other public sewer or water line; (iii) do not
require a variance; and (iv) there has been no other subdivision of the parcel
for at least one calendar year. Minor subdivisions shall be reviewed in
accordance with the standards in this article as well as §
3311, Minor Subdivision.
   (B)   Major subdivision. A major subdivision shall include a division of
land resulting in four or more lots, including any residual parcel. Major
subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the standards in this article
as well as §
3310, Major Subdivision.
   (C)   Expedited subdivision. An expedited subdivision is neither a major nor
a minor subdivision, but shall fully comply with all applicable standards for
the zoning district where it is located as well as the standards in §
3308, Expedited and Exempt Subdivisions. Approval of an expedited subdivision
requires the recordation of a subdivision plat in accordance with all
applicable provisions in this ordinance.
   (D)   Conservation subdivision. Conservation subdivisions are major
subdivisions that require reserving sensitive environmental lands as open
space. The application and approval process is different from major
subdivisions above. See Division 8 below.
DIVISION 2. SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 720 INTENT.
   Subdivisions shall be designed with a street and pedestrian network which
provides safe, adequate access to all lots within the subdivision. Extension of
a public access to an adjoining property should be considered in the
subdivision design where a compelling public need is deemed necessary for
orderly development of these adjoining properties. However, the design of the
local street network in a subdivision should not encourage large amounts of
through traffic, the origins and destination of which are external to the
subdivision, to use local roads in the subdivision. Due consideration should be
given to preserving important natural features, such as trees, ponds, streams,
lakes, as well as historical sites which are of value to the town as a whole.
Consideration shall also be given to grading to ensure the adequate flow of
stormwater on the site and the retention of stormwater as required by the
County Public Utilities Department.
§ 721 APPLICABILITY OF LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Each lot in a subdivision shall comply with the lot design standards
contained in this division and in
Article 4, Zoning Districts. Newly created or revised lots shall be designed so
that any existing structures continue to meet the requirements of this division
or so that any existing nonconformity is not increased, enlarged or extended.
The standards of this section, however, do not apply to recreation areas.
§ 722 LOT SIZE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every subdivided lot shall comply with the minimum lot size, lot width
and street frontage standard as stipulated in this article,
Article 4 and the standards of the County Environmental Health Department for
lots not served by a public water and/or sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Lots laid out for commercial or industrial purposes shall be of a size
that is adequate to provide for the structure to be located on the site; off-
street parking facilities required by the type and use of the development; and
any required landscape buffer or screening areas. Lots for residential use
shall comply with the provisions of this division and
Article 4, Zoning Districts.
§ 723 LOT AND BLOCK ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   Lots. The arrangement of lots in a subdivision shall comply with the
provisions of this division and the regulations of the town and shall provide
vehicular access to buildings on the lot from an approved street.
   (B)   Block perimeters.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   The block perimeter standards apply to preliminary subdivision
plats, final plats and site plans submitted in accordance with §§
3305, Conservation Subdivision, and
3310, Major Subdivision. These standards can be modified by a zoning condition
contained in an adopted and conditional use zoning district, an approved
conservation subdivision, mixed use development or planned unit development.
         (b)   Except where a street connection traversing the subject property
is shown on an adopted NCDOT or town plan, compliance with the maximum block
perimeter standards, including maximum dead-end street length, shall not be
required when one or more of the following conditions are:
            1.   The site to be developed is below the minimum applicable site
area established in
Table 19 below;
            2.   The resulting street connection, if completed, would neither
reduce the perimeter of the oversized block by at least 20% nor result in
conforming block perimeters;
            3.   The resulting street connection, if completed, would result in
a new block perimeter less than 50% of the maximum block perimeter length;
            4.   The new street or street stub right-of-way, including utility
placement easement, would consume more than 15% of either the area of the
impacted adjacent property or the property to be developed;
            5.   A traffic study sealed by a state professional engineer is
submitted substantiating that the street connection would lead to an
intersection level of service within a residential zoned area of level of
service (LOS) E or F;
            6.   The creation (on the property to be developed) or continuation
(on an adjacent property) of any new street or street stub would be obstructed
by any of the following:
               a.   Existing improvements where the value of such improvements
is more than the land value of the parcel on which the improvements are
located;
               b.   Railroad, or controlled access highway;
               c.   Watercourse that has one square mile of drainage area or
more; or
               d.   Previously established tree conservation area, open space
or public park.
            7.   Blocks recorded on or before July 1, 2022, whose block
perimeter length does not exceed 150% of the maximum established in §
723(B)(2);
            8.   State Department of Transportation denies a driveway permit
necessary to make the street connection; and
            9.   The property to be developed or the adjacent property to which
any new street or stub street would be continued contains one or more of the
following land uses: historic landmark; cemetery; hospital; school, including
colleges; places of worship; police station; fire station; EMS station; jail;
or any residential uses on lots no larger than two acres.
      (2)   Block standards.
         (a)   Residential blocks must have sufficient width to provide for two
tiers of residential lots, except where single tier lots are required to
accommodate single loaded streets where across from a public park or open
space, to allow for unusual topographic conditions or when adjacent to the
outer perimeter of a subdivision.
         (b)   The following table establishes the maximum block perimeter and
maximum length for a dead-end street by zoning district. If a single block
contains more than one zoning district, the least restrictive requirement
applies.
Table 19 - Maximum Block Sizes, Dead End Streets Lengths
Zoning Districts
By average lot size Block Perimeter  Dead End Street (max.) Min. Site Area
on block: RA, R20,  (max.) (feet)                           Applicable (acres)
Rl5
Table 19 - Maximum Block Sizes, Dead End Streets Lengths
Zoning Districts
By average lot size Block Perimeter  Dead End Street (max.) Min. Site Area
on block: RA, R20,  (max.) (feet)                           Applicable (acres)
Rl5
40,000 + sf         8,000            750                    9
20,000 - 39,999 sf  7,000            700                    7
10,000 - 19,999 sf  4,500            500                    5
By districts: R-9   3,000            400                    3
R-9M                2,500            300                    3
MUD                 4,500            550                    3
PUD                 N/A              750                    5
Conservation
subdivision estate  N/A              1,000                  4
option only
 
      (3)   Block measurement.
         (a)   A block is bounded by a public right-of-way (not including an
alley). All public rights-of-way proposed as part of a development must be
improved with a street.
         (b)   Block perimeter is measured along the edge of the property
adjoining the public right-of-way. Dead end streets are measured from
intersecting centerlines.
         (c)   The maximum block perimeter shall be permitted to extend 50%
where the block contains a pedestrian passage (See PUD and MUD districts in
Article 4, Division 5) or an alley. That connects two streets on opposing
blocks, including pedestrian passages and alleys that connect dead-end streets.
         (d)   Blocks may be broken by a civic building or open lot, provided
that the lot is at least 50 feet wide and deep and provides a pedestrian
passage that directly connects the two streets on each block face.
         (e)   Within a single phase of any subdivision or development,
individual block perimeters are permitted to exceed the maximum by 25%,
provided that the average of all block perimeters in the phase does not exceed
the maximum.
         (f)   Where the block pattern is interrupted by public parkland,
including greenways, that is open and accessible to the public, pedestrian
access points shall be provided with a minimum spacing equal to one-half of the
maximum block perimeter.
Figures - Block Patterns
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1863.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1865.png]
 
  § 724 FLAG LOTS.
   (A)   Flag lots and easement access lots shall be permitted only if it can
be demonstrated by the applicant that the subdivision cannot be physically
designed, that no reasonable alternative exists, or it would create an
unreasonable hardship without a corresponding public benefit to prohibit
flagpole lots. Hardships shall include the following:
      (1)   Topographic constraints or irregularly shaped land in which no
alternative exists;
      (2)   Natural features such as ponds, streams, wetlands or buffers exist
which would limit street construction and/or lot design;
      (3)   A long narrow parent parcel which would limit alternative designs;
      (4)   A parent parcel that has limited or no direct road frontage which
would require the use of a flagpole or easement with no alternative design
available; and
      (5)   No alternative access is available or feasible such as a paved
subdivision street or cul-de-sac street constructed to NCDOT standards.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to present evidence to the
Town Planner that one or more of the hardships listed in subsection (A) above
exist.
   (D)   Any decision of the waiver described in subsection (A) above may be
appealed to the Board of Adjustment as described in §
3301, Appeals.
   (E)   All flag lots or easement access lots within a major subdivision shall
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   A flag lot shall serve only one single-family dwelling and its
uninhabited accessory structures;
      (2)   The minimum flagpole width shall be 30 feet;
      (3)   The minimum separation between the flagpole portion of the lot and
that of another flag lot shall be 100 feet;
      (4)   (a)   Where public water is available, the occupied building on the
flag lot shall be within 500 feet of a fire hydrant.
         (b)   The hydrant shall not be across a street from a proposed flag
lot. This distance shall be measured along the street, then along the flagpole,
then from the end of the flagpole in a straight line to the building thereon;
      (5)   Where public sewer is available, the occupied building on the lot
shall have a gravity service line, or the sewer pump requirements shall be
noted on the recorded plat;
      (6)   (a)   Use of a single driveway to serve the flag lot and an
adjoining lot is permitted and encouraged.
         (b)   In the case of a shared driveway, the location of the driveway
shall be on the flagpole portion of the flag lot, with the conventional lot
granted an access easement over the flagpole; and
      (7)   Designate the building footprint and orientation of the house on
the preliminary plat.
   (F)   The flagpole portion of a lot shall not be used to calculate the area,
width or setbacks of the lot for the zoning district in which the lot is
located.
§ 725 REVERSE FRONTAGE RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   For residential developments designed to have the dwelling units face an
internal subdivision street and the rear of the dwelling units partially or
completely facing an arterial or collector road, the following shall be
required:
   (A)   An eight-foot landscape berm, decorative wall or opaque fence
(excluding a wooden fence) is required for lots abutting a collector or
arterial street;
   (B)   The use of only plant material configured in accordance with a Type C
perimeter buffer (see §
650(K), Perimeter Buffers) is required for lots abutting all other streets; and
   (C)   Existing vegetation may be used provided the planting density meets or
exceeds that required for a Type C perimeter buffer (see §
650(K), Perimeter Buffers) and provided it remains undisturbed.
DIVISION 3. STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   The type and arrangement of streets within a development under this article
shall comply with and coordinate with the town’s adopted transportation plan
(s); or the decision of the Town Planner. Principal vehicular access points to
the subdivision shall be designed to encourage smooth traffic flow and minimize
hazard to vehicular traffic, pedestrian and bicycle traffic. Accommodation for
controlled turning movements into and out of the subdivision and improvement of
the approach street should be considered where existing or anticipated heavy
traffic flows indicate need. Safe and convenient vehicular access shall be
provided for emergency, service and school bus vehicles.
§ 730 ROADS.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all roads
should be designed in relation to existing and proposed transportation
patterns, topographical and other natural features, public convenience and
safety and proposed uses of lands to be served by such roads and existing and
potential land uses in adjoining areas.
   (A)   Minimum construction standards. All roads shall meet the road
construction standards as set forth in the latest edition of the NCDOT
subdivision roads minimum construction standards/town’s Engineering Standards
and Procedures Manual (latest edition) and shall:
      (1)   Be dedicated for public use and meet the design and construction
standards as required by the town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual
(latest edition)/NCDOT for the functional classification and projected traffic
volumes; and
      (2)   For all roads not maintained by NCDOT and/or not dedicated for
public use, be ensured proper maintenance through the establishment of a
homeowners’ association or a road maintenance agreement.
   (B)   Other road requirements.
      (1)   Permits for connecting to state roads. An approved permit is
required to connect any subdivision street to an existing state road. This
permit is required prior to constructing the road. The application is available
at the office of the nearest district engineer of the division of highways.
      (2)   Offsets to utility poles. Overhead utility poles shall be break-
away or located outside the roadway clear zone.
      (3)   Wheelchair ramps and curb cuts for disabled persons. All roads,
sidewalks, curbing, crosswalks and other road improvements shall conform to the
requirements of G.S. § 136-44.14 and the Americans with Disabilities Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
      (4)   Mail box kiosks. All mail box kiosks shall meet the USPS Cluster
Box Units Concrete Pad Installation; Interim Pad Policy (February 19, 2017, or
most recent edition) and the NCDOT Policy for Placement of Mail Cluster Box
Units (September 1, 2015, or most recent edition) and be subject to approval by
the State Department of Transportation.
   (C)   Relationship to adjoining properties. New streets or roads shall be
appropriately related to, and coordinated with, adjoining properties and
existing and proposed roadways. Roadways within a proposed subdivision may be
required to connect with adjoining properties where necessary to permit the
convenient, efficient and safe movement of traffic. All roads that extend to
adjacent properties shall be designated as public roads.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac length. No residential street terminating in a cul-de-sac
shall exceed the lengths listed in
Table 19 above.
   (E)   Access to streets. Every subdivided lot shall front on, or have direct
driveway access or dedicated easement to, a public street meeting the standards
of the latest edition of the NCDOT subdivision roads minimum construction
standards/town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual (latest edition).
   (F)   Direct residential driveway connections. Subdivisions located on an
arterial or collector road shall be designed such that no new subdivided lot
shall have a direct driveway connection onto the arterial or collector road,
unless it can be demonstrated that the proposed subdivision cannot be feasibly
designed, or that no reasonable alternative exists, to prohibit driveway access
onto the collector street.
      (1)   Major subdivisions to be located on a local road shall be so
designed that there shall be no more than one direct residential driveway
connection per 500 feet along the same side of the local road unless it can be
demonstrated that the proposed subdivision cannot be physically designed, that
no reasonable alternative exists or it would create an unreasonable hardship
without a corresponding public benefit to prohibit individual driveway access
onto a local road.
      (2)   Subdivision access. A second or third full-service access built to
the standards of the town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual for the
purpose of ingress and egress, or emergency access easement will be required
when meeting or exceeding the following thresholds.
         (a)   For subdivisions proposing between 25 and 50 lots, the developer
has the option of providing a second full-service access built to the standards
of the town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual (latest edition) for
the purpose of ingress and egress or a dedicated “emergency vehicle access.”
This “emergency vehicle access” is to be constructed of any all-weather surface
and kept cleared at all times in case the main entrance is blocked, and
emergency vehicles need to access the development.
         (b)   For subdivisions proposing 51 or more 100 lots, a third full-
service access built to the standards of the town’s Engineering Standards and
Procedures Manual (latest edition) for the purpose of ingress and egress will
be required. In lieu of installation of a third full-service access, a
dedicated emergency vehicle access must be approved by the Planning Board and
constructed as described above with one full-service access approved by the
Planning Board planned within the subdivision.
         (c)   Note: For determining when a second or third access is required,
the count will be cumulative over all subdivision phases.
   (G)   Subdivision road standards.
      (1)   The applicant/developer shall be responsible for ensuring that all
dedicated public subdivision streets are successfully accepted by NCDOT or the
town for maintenance. The applicant/developer shall be responsible for
maintenance of all streets and protection of rights-of-way until such streets
are accepted into the state road system.
      (2)   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into the
state or town systems at the time the plat is recorded, a statement explaining
the status of the street shall be included on the final plat. Said statements
shall explain that the applicant/developer is ultimately responsible for the
upkeep and maintenance of all streets until such time that the streets are
included in the state system.
      (3)   Stub out streets. All stub out streets shall be posted with a sign
at least 24 inches by 36 inches in area but no greater than 36 inches by 48
inches with a minimum height of three feet and a maximum height of five feet
stating the following: road subject to future extension for additional lots.
§ 731 CURB AND GUTTER STANDARDS.
   When provided or required by either the Planning Board or Board of
Commissioners, curb and gutters shall be constructed in accordance with plans
and profiles meeting the specifications for curb and gutters in the town’s
Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual (latest edition).
§ 732 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Specifications.
      (1)   Sidewalks or shared use paths (or greenways) will be provided
along: (i) both sides of new collector and arterial streets; (ii) both sides of
all streets located in the OI, NB, CB and HB Districts; and (iii) on both sides
of all streets in nonresidential sections of PUDs.
      (2)   Sidewalks or shared use paths shall be provided along one side of
local streets inside major subdivisions of seven or more lots.
      (3)   Sidewalks and/or greenways will be provided to all required open
spaces and public parks, greenways and schools.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum width of five feet and
in accordance with the town’s Engineering Standards and Procedures Manual
(latest edition) or NCDOT specifications and construction standards.
      (5)   All sidewalks shall be located behind curb and gutter or beyond the
clear zone behind a swale or ditch.
      (6)   All sidewalks shall be placed in the street right-of-way or within
a public access easement.
      (7)   A shared use path or greenway trail that is constructed in
accordance with NCDOT specifications and construction standards (complete
streets) and the most recent edition of the town’s Engineering Standards and
Procedures Manual may be credited towards required sidewalks on a case-by-case
basis based on a determination by the Town Planner.
      (8)   The Board of Commissioners may require additional sidewalks in
residential developments on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   Protection of significant trees. Sidewalks and shared use paths (or
greenways) shall be meandered as to protect and preserve existing significant
trees. Significant trees depend on the species and health of the trees.
Generally healthy overstory trees of eight inches or more in diameter at breast
height (DBH) and understory trees of two inches or greater DBH are significant.
For that purpose, sidewalks and shared use paths (or greenways) may be placed
within a minimum 15-foot-wide public access easement located outside the public
right-of-way. In no case shall more than 30% of a tree’s roots be disturbed.
DIVISION 4. OPEN SPACE
§ 740 OPEN SPACE.
   Open space requirements. Residential subdivisions and multi-family
development shall provide open space set-aside in accordance with
Article 6, Division 6.
§ 741 DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND.
   (A)   Subdivisions of land of four or more single-family residential lots
(including detached or attached units) shall be required to dedicate a portion
of the land, for public parkland, in accordance with the standards of this
section.
   (B)   Dedication amount.
      (1)   Single-family residential subdivisions of five or more lots may be
asked to dedicate 1,000 square feet of land per residential lot to the town for
its use in developing public parkland.
      (2)   No credit towards required parkland dedication is given for lands
mandated for preservation by state or federal requirements.
      (3)   No more than 25% of the total dedication requirement may be met
through dedication of water areas.
   (C)   Procedure for dedication.
      (1)   The developer and/or town shall identify land proposed for
dedication.
      (2)   The town shall review the proposed application and determine if it
complies with the standards in this section.
      (3)   The decision to accept dedication is up to the sole discretion of
the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Land shall be dedicated prior to recording the first final plat for
the subdivision, or the payment-in-lieu shall be paid prior to recording the
first final plat for the subdivision for which the payment-in-lieu is paid.
   (E)   Nature of area to be dedicated. All lands proposed for dedication as
park areas shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Unity. The dedicated land shall be a single parcel of land, whether
the subdivision is developed in phases or sections, except where it is
determined by the Town Board of Commissioners that multiple parcels would
better serve town residents.
      (2)   Usability.
         (a)   Public parkland must be without significant topographic
elevation changes, well-drained, usable land for a park, as determined by the
Town Board of Commissioners. At least two-thirds of the dedicated land shall be
usable for active recreation.
         (b)   In cases where dedication includes an area of water, public
access to all portions of a water feature shall be provided and maintained,
regardless of water feature’s size.
         (c)   Areas of water shall not be included in the two-thirds required
ratio of active recreation land required by
Article 6, Division 6.
      (3)   Shape. The dedicated land shall be of a shape that supports
gathering and recreation activities.
      (4)   Location.
         (a)   The dedicated parkland shall be located so it can reasonably
serve the park needs of the residents of the subdivision and immediate area.
         (b)   The Town Board of Commissioners may require that the land
dedicated be located on the periphery of the development in order to allow
enlargement by combining the recreation and park area with adjacent development
or park facilities, existing or planned.
      (5)   Access.
         (a)   All dwelling units in the subdivision and residents in the
immediate area shall have access to and from the parkland provided by means of
streets and public walkways or trails.
         (b)   Rights-of-way for this access shall be shown on the preliminary
and final plats.
         (c)   All dedicated lands shall have access by way of a street or a
20-foot-wide public access easement. Such access can be provided when the
dedicated land is adjacent to existing or proposed public parkland with street
access.
   (F)   Credit for greenways and trails. Land or easements dedicated to the
town for use as greenways, trails or shared paths shall be credited towards the
public park dedication standards in this section.
   (G)   No payments-in-lieu are permitted. See
Article 6, Division 6.
§ 742 TRAILS AND SHARED USE PATHS.
   (A)   Required dedication and construction.
      (1)   Whenever a tract of land included within any proposed major
subdivision or subject to a site plan application includes any part of a trail
or shared use path designated in the town’s adopted policy guidance, including
the most recent versions of the County Comprehensive Master Plan and the
Carolina Thread Trail Master Plan for Stanly County Communities, the trail or
shared use path shall be platted and dedicated to the town.
      (2)   Trails and shared use paths shall be constructed as part of the
required infrastructure serving a site or a subdivision.
   (B)   Trail/path configuration. A shared use path or trail shall be
constructed in accordance with NCDOT specifications and construction standards
(complete streets) and the most recent edition of the town’s Engineering
Standards and Procedures Manual (latest edition) bike and pedestrian plan and
the following.
      (1)   The land dedicated to the town for a trail or shared path accessway
shall be at least 12 feet wide.
      (2)   The trail or shared use path shall include a trail of at least ten
feet in width, paved with asphalt or concrete, that meets ADA guidelines for
accessibility.
      (3)   The trail or path shall be edged with gravel shoulders of at least
one foot in width on each side.
      (4)   Positive drainage shall be established in areas adjacent to the
paved trail or path.
      (5)   In cases where a trail or path crosses a street, the pedestrian
crossing area shall be demarcated and supplemented with signage that alerts
drivers to the presence of pedestrians.
   (C)   Density credits.
      (1)   Land that is dedicated in fee-simple interest to and accepted by
the town in accordance with this section shall be credited toward the donating
parcel’s lot or tract area for the purpose of calculating the density of
development and area coverage calculations though no longer part of the parcel.
      (2)   Dedicated land credits shall be transferred to subsequent holders
if properly noted in transfer deeds.
   (D)   Open space set-aside credits. Land associated with a trail or shared
use path that is dedicated to the town shall be credited towards any open space
set-aside requirements.
   (E)   Park land dedication credits. Land associated with a trail or shared
use path that is dedicated to the town shall be credited towards any public
parkland dedication requirements.
DIVISION 5. UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
§ 750 WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   Service by public systems. All developments shall be served by a town
water supply and a town sanitary sewer system wherever service is available,
including by extension of a sewer lateral of four-inch sewer line. Fire
hydrants of sufficient water pressure to provide adequate fire protection shall
be provided where necessary. All proposed public water and sanitary sewer
installations shall be approved by the town or public utilities department with
jurisdiction. Certification of such approval shall be submitted to the Town
Planner prior to issuance of any zoning compliance certificate (see §
3323, Zoning Compliance Certificate) for the development being served. No
certificate of occupancy-zoning compliance certificate (see §
3303, Certificate of Occupancy; Zoning Compliance Certificate) for a structure
shall be issued until the following documents have been submitted to the Town
Planner:
      (1)   Certification that all water/sewer facilities necessary to serve
such structure have been completed to town standards; and
      (2)   As-built construction drawings of those completed water and/or
sewer facilities as required by the town. See the town’s Engineering Standards
and Details, latest edition.
   (B)   Service by individual systems. Where town or county water and/or sewer
is not available, individual water supply/sewer treatment systems intended to
provide potable water/sewer treatment, and/or individual subsurface sewage
disposal systems, may be permitted on a parcel/lot, subject to approval by the
County Environmental Health Department. Certification of the County
Environmental Health Department approval shall be submitted to the Town Planner
prior to issuance of any zoning compliance permit for the development being
served.
   (C)   Public water, fire hydrants and sewer systems.
      (1)   Subdivisions that incorporate a public water distributions system
and/or a public sewage collection system shall require that all future
homeowners connect to the public water and/or sewer system prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for their principal structure.
      (2)   All subdivisions incorporating a public water distribution system
and/or a public sewage collection system shall comply with the standards of the
state, the town and county, as applicable.
§ 751 OTHER UTILITIES.
   For all new developments, except residential subdivisions of three lots or
less, all utility lines, other than lines used only to transmit electricity
between generating stations or substations and three-phase electric power
distribution lines, shall be placed underground, and all surface disruptions
required for installation shall be rehabilitated to the original or an improved
condition.
§ 752 STORMWATER.
   All subdivisions subject to this article shall comply with the following
standards.
   (A)   To the extent practicable, all development shall conform to the
natural contours of the land, and natural and pre-existing artificial
drainageways shall remain undisturbed.
   (B)   All storm drainage systems shall be designed to convey stormwater from
a ten-year frequency storm; and detain the runoff from the first one inch of
rainfall so that is released at pre-development volumes and velocities.
   (C)   No surface water or stormwater may be channeled or directed into a
sanitary sewer.
   (D)   All development shall be constructed and maintained so that the
development unreasonably impedes the natural flow of water from higher adjacent
properties thereby unreasonably causing substantial damage to the higher
adjacent property.
   (E)   The Storm Drain Standards of the Engineering Standards and Procedures
Manual, latest edition.
DIVISION 6. PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
§ 760 GENERALLY.
   For major subdivisions, a preliminary plat for the lots shown on the
proposed final plat must have been approved and not expired before a final plat
approval application may be accepted. As part of the application for final plat
approval, the applicant shall certify one of the following:
   (A)   All required improvements (streets, utilities, storm drainage
facilities, street signs and facilities for common use, if any) approved as
part of the preliminary plat approval and serving lots shown on the final plat
have been completed, or sufficient performance guarantee has been posted; or
   (B)   A performance guarantee at a rate of one and twenty-five hundredths of
the estimated cost and description thereof, including sufficient means and
procedures, to ensure satisfactory completion of any uncompleted improvements
have been posted at the time the plat is recorded, or in the case of phased
subdivisions at the time a subsequent plat is recorded, provided that the Town
Planner shall specify which subsequent final plat requires the performance
guarantee.
§ 761 DURATION.
   The duration of the performance guarantee shall initially be one year,
unless the applicant/developer determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a bonded
obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the bond is
issued, unless the applicant/developer determines that the scope of work for
the required improvements necessitates a longer duration.
§ 762 EXTENSION.
   (A)   An applicant/developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension.
   (B)   If the improvements are not completed to the specifications of the
town or county, and the current performance guarantee is likely to expire prior
to completion of the required improvements, the performance guarantee shall be
extended, or a new performance guarantee issued, for an additional period;
provided, however, that the extension shall only be for a duration necessary to
complete the required improvements.
   (C)   If a new performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be
determined by the procedure provided in §
764(D) and shall include the total cost of all incomplete improvements.
§ 763 RELEASE.
   (A)   The performance guarantee shall be returned or released, as
appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the town that the
improvements for which the performance guarantee is being required are
complete.
   (B)   The town shall return letters of credit or escrowed funds upon
completion of the required improvements to the specifications of the town, or
upon acceptance of the required improvements, if the required improvements are
subject to town acceptance. When required improvements that are secured by a
bond are completed to the specifications of the town, or are accepted by the
town, if subject to town acceptance, upon request by the applicant/developer,
the town shall timely provide written acknowledgment that the required
improvements have been completed.
§ 764 AMOUNT.
   (A)   The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed 125% of the
reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance guarantee
is issued.
   (B)   The town may determine the amount of the performance guarantee or use
a cost estimate determined by the applicant/developer. The reasonably estimated
cost of completion shall include 100% of the costs for labor and materials
necessary for completion of the required improvements. Where applicable, the
costs shall be based on unit pricing.
   (C)   The additional 25% allowed under this section includes inflation and
all costs of administration regardless of how such fees or charges are
denominated.
   (D)   The amount of any extension of any performance guarantee shall be
determined according to the procedures for determining the initial guarantee
and shall not exceed 125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the
remaining incomplete improvements still outstanding at the time the extension
is obtained.
DIVISION 7. OWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS
§ 770 REQUIRED RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS AND REVIEW BY TOWN.
   (A)   Prior to the approval of any final subdivision plat, the applicant/
developer shall create a homeowners’ association to be responsible for at least
the items listed in this section. The restrictive covenants will contain the
model language found in
Article 11, Division 4. The proposed restrictive covenants will be reviewed and
approved by the Town Attorney. The model language need not be followed if
substantial similar covenants accomplishing the goals of this section are
proposed and then approved by the Town Attorney. A copy of the recorded
covenants will be provided to the Town Planner before the final plat is
recorded. If a development is built in phases the covenants will be reviewed
and approved before the final plat is issued for the first phase.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may, but is not required to, accept the
offer of dedication of infrastructure for town ownership and maintenance.
   (C)   Prior to the final approval of any major subdivision submitted after
July 1, 2022, the applicant/developer will meet the following goals regarding
ownership, maintenance and repair of the subdivision’s rights-of-way, roads,
sidewalks, greenways and related stormwater drainage infrastructure.
      (1)   A homeowners’ association will be created by the applicant/
developer, known in this subsection (C) as the declarant.
      (2)   Membership in the HOA is mandatory for all current and future
property owners for the purpose of maintaining the streets, sidewalks,
greenways and related stormwater drainage infrastructure.
      (3)   The declarant will own and maintain the roads, sidewalks, greenways
and associated stormwater drainage infrastructure until such time as the
ownership interest is transferred to the HOA or to NCDOT.
      (4)   The HOA is responsible for the maintenance and repair of the
streets, sidewalks and related stormwater drainage infrastructure to NCDOT
standards in the current edition of the Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction
Standards.
      (5)   Each member of the HOA will be assessed annually his or her pro
rata share of the costs of road, sidewalk and greenway maintenance and related
stormwater drainage infrastructure, but in no case less than $100.
      (6)   The association shall deposit all assessments for the purpose of
maintenance, repair and upkeep of the streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways
together with associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the subdivision
into a separate account with an accredited, FDIC backed banking institution in
the name of the association. The association shall file with the town, by the
first day of the calendar year, an annual accounting of said maintenance
account.
      (7)   The HOA or declarant, whichever the case may be, shall either: (i)
petition the NCDOT to assume ownership and maintenance of the rights-of-way,
roads, sidewalks, greenways and related stormwater drainage infrastructure; or
(ii) provide that the rights-of-way, roads, sidewalks, greenways and related
stormwater drainage infrastructure be privately owned and maintained to NCDOT
standards in perpetuity.
      (8)   To the extent permitted by law, in the event that the streets,
roads, sidewalks and greenways, together with associated stormwater drainage
infrastructure of the subdivision and the rights-of-way thereto, have not been
previously dedicated to the NCDOT, in the event the association should
dissolve, the association shall transfer any and all ownership interest in the
streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways, together with associated stormwater
drainage infrastructure of the subdivision and the rights-of-way thereto, as
well as the associated maintenance account as described in subdivision (C)(6)
above, to another legal entity for the purpose of maintenance, repair and
upkeep.
DIVISION 8. CONSERVATION SUBDIVISIONS
§ 780 INTENT.
   Conservation subdivisions provide the opportunity for property owners to
achieve more efficient development than can be achieved through conventional
development while retaining significant open areas that may be used for
agriculture, forestry or environmental purposes.
§ 781 PURPOSE.
   This article is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To guide future growth and development consistently with the
comprehensive plan;
   (B)   To guide site analysis to plan appropriate areas for development and
conservation;
   (C)   To preserve the rural character through the permanent preservation of
meaningful open space and sensitive natural resources;
   (D)   To preserve scenic views minimizing views of new development from
existing roads;
   (E)   To preserve prime agricultural land by concentrating housing on land
that has low agricultural potential;
   (F)   To preserve commonly-owned open space for passive and/or active
recreational use by residents of the development and, where specified, the
larger community. Active recreation areas are intended to be located on
previously cleared lands to minimize new clearing of wooded land;
   (G)   To provide a diversity of lot sizes, housing and building densities to
accommodate a variety of age and income groups;
   (H)   To provide buffering between residential and nonresidential land uses;
   (I)   To protect and restore environmentally sensitive areas and biological
diversity, minimize disturbance to existing vegetation and maintain
environmental corridors;
   (J)   To preserve significant archaeological sites, historic buildings and
their settings;
   (K)   To preserve scenic views and elements of the town’s rural character
and to minimize perceived density by minimizing views of new developments from
existing roads;
   (L)   To provide greater efficiency in the siting of services and
infrastructure by reducing road length, utility runs and the amount of paving
for development;
   (M)   To create compact neighborhoods accessible to open space amenities and
with a strong identity; and
   (N)   To meet demand for housing in a rural setting.
§ 782 APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   Conservation subdivisions shall be applied to any subdivision within the AR,
R-20 or R-15 Zoning Districts. There are two options for conservation
subdivisions, the “Estate” option and the “Village” option. The “Estate” option
is available where public water and sewer or a community water and wastewater
treatment system is not available. Public water and sewer or a community water
and sewer systems are required for village conservation subdivisions. Under the
“Village” option, new residential building lots shall be consistent with the
density of the R-9M Zoning District as modified in §
789.1(E), Open Space Development Sketch Plan (the “Sketch Plan”). An enhanced
site plan called a concept plan (§
787, Concept Plan) and preliminary plat are required. The Board of
Commissioners shall approve the site plan and preliminary plat following a
recommendation from the Planning Board. The Town Planner shall approve the
final plat if it meets the requirements of the preliminary plat and concept
plan (see §
787).
§ 783 DEFINITIONS.
   See
Article 10, Division 3, Defined Terms.
§ 784 OPEN SPACE STANDARDS.
   At least 30% of the unconstrained (buildable) land area in the conservation
subdivision shall be set aside as protected open space. See
Table 20 below. Unconstrained lands are lands that do not lie within “Primary
Conservation Areas,” as described below. Unconstrained lands also exclude the
rights-of-way of high-tension electrical transmission lines, and the rights-of-
way of existing or proposed streets, which therefore may not be counted toward
meeting minimum open space requirements. Except under the “Estate Lot”
provisions, this open space shall remain undivided, and may not be incorporated
into individual house lots. Note: In areas with very low rural density, say
more than two acres per dwelling, open space percentages greater than 50% are
easily achievable and highly recommended. On the other hand, in serviced
locations with public water and sewer, where densities might be several
dwellings per acre, open space percentages might dip to 35 or 40%.
   (A)   Types of open space. The types of open space conserved in conservation
subdivisions shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   Open space shall be comprised of two types of land: primary
conservation areas and secondary conservation areas and shall be configured to
create or maintain interconnected networks of conservation lands, to the
greatest practicable extent.
      (2)   Primary conservation areas form the core of the open space to be
protected. They are the first type of open space to be designated on a
conservation subdivision plan to satisfy the minimum open space requirement and
consist of the following site features:
         (a)   Wetlands;
         (b)   Floodplains (100-year); and
         (c)   Steep slopes: greater than 25%.
      (3)   Secondary conservation areas consist of unconstrained land that
would otherwise be suitable for building and includes the following
         (a)   Farmland;
         (b)   Natural areas;
         (c)   Moderate slopes: 15% to 25%;
         (d)   Woodlands;
         (e)   Public or private recreational areas and facilities, including:
         (f)   Historic and/or archaeological sites; and
         (g)   Scenic views.
   (B)   General location standards.
      (1)   Undivided preserves. Both primary and secondary conservation areas
shall be placed in undivided preserves which adjoin housing areas that have
been designed more compactly to create larger conservation units that may be
enjoyed by all residents of the subdivision. Such undivided open space shall be
accessible to the largest number of lots within the development. To achieve
this, the majority of house lots should abut undivided open space to provide
residents with direct views and access. Safe and convenient pedestrian access
to the open space from all adjoining house lots shall be provided, except in
the case of farmland or other resource areas vulnerable to trampling damage or
human disturbance.
      (2)   When the “Estate Lot Development Option” is used, up to 85% of the
secondary conservation area may be incorporated into estate lots not smaller
than five acres.
      (3)   Where undivided open space is designated as separate non-contiguous
parcels, no parcel shall consist of less than three acres in area, nor have a
length-to-width ratio in excess of 4:1, except such areas that are specifically
designed for neighborhood commons or greens, playfields, buffers adjacent to
wetlands and watercourses, wildlife corridors or trail links.
      (4)   Interconnected open space network. As these standards are
implemented, the protected open space in each new subdivision should be
consciously designed to adjoin each other, so that they may ultimately form an
interconnected network of primary and secondary conservation areas across the
town.
      (5)   Ownership and protection of open space. See §
789.2, Ownership and Maintenance of Open Space and Common Facilities.
         (a)   Up to 85% of the conservation land within a conservation
subdivision may be “non-common open space” that is designated for individual
private ownership, such as by the original farmer or landowner, the developer
or another private entity that maintains the open space for the uses permitted
in this ordinance (such as a nursery business or commercial equestrian
operation). The remaining conservation land shall remain undivided for the
enjoyment of the residents, and this remainder be land that is not wet,
submerged, not steep slopes (greater than 15%) and not within the rights-of-way
of electric transmission lines.
         (b)   All conservation land shall be permanently protected through
conservation easements dedicated to the town, another unit of local government,
the state or a private non-profit land conservancy. Such easements shall apply
to land owned by a homeowners’ association, individual lot owners within estate
lot developments, land owned by other private entities managing the land for
open space purposes and land dedicated to units of local government. (Land
dedicated to units of local government shall be eased to a private land trust
or conservancy organization because, over time, the conservation and
development philosophies of elected officials are subject to change.)
   (C)   Maintenance of open space. Natural features shall be maintained in
their natural condition, but may be modified to improve their appearance,
functioning or overall condition, as recommended by experts in the particular
area being modified. Permitted modifications may include:
      (1)   Reforestation;
      (2)   Pasture or cropland management;
      (3)   Buffer area landscaping;
      (4)   Stream bank protection; and/or
      (5)   Wetlands management.
   Unless accepted for dedication or otherwise agreed to by the county, another
unit of local government, the state or a private non-profit land conservancy,
the cost and responsibility of maintaining open space and any facilities
located thereon shall be borne by the property owner and/or homeowners’
association.
   Management plans are required for all open space within open space
subdivisions specifying who is responsible for which maintenance
responsibilities and on what schedule. Guidelines for management can be found
in the Stewardship Handbook for Natural Lands, published by the Natural Lands
Trust (http://www.natlands.org/services-for-land-owners/stewardship-handbook/).
§ 785 APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Conservation subdivisions shall be approved thorough the site plan (§
3317, Site Plan), preliminary major subdivision plat (§
3310, Major Subdivision) and final subdivision plat (§
3309, Final Plat) processes with the following additional steps and/or
analyses.
   (B)   Approval process.
STEP 1: MANDATORY PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE with Town Planner per §
320, Pre-Application Conference.
STEP 2: PREPARE AN EXISTING FEATURES/SITE ANALYSIS MAP per the requirements of
§
786, Existing Site Features/Site Analysis Map Standards, submit the map to the
Town Planner.
STEP 3: MANDATORY SITE VISIT (may be combined with a pre-application
conference). The applicant and Town Planner shall schedule a mutually
convenient time to walk the property. The purpose of the visit it to
familiarize the town staff with the property’s features and to provide an
informal opportunity to discuss the location secondary conservation areas and
house locations. The town’s Engineer and/or the Development Review Committee,
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners may also attend. If a site visit is
not scheduled before the concept plan submission (STEP 4) it must occur before
the public information meeting.
STEP 4: SUBMIT A CONCEPT PLAN for approval prior to submission of a preliminary
plat. See §
788, Yield Plan, for the requirements of the yield plan and §
789 for the open space development sketch plan (the “sketch plan”). The concept
plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A county tax map showing the location of the parcel to be
subdivided;
      (2)   Ten copies of a concept plan (§
787, Concept Plan) of the proposed major subdivision prepared in accordance
with the specifications for concept plan drawings as contained in §
787. A concept plan shall consist of three parts, including:
         (a)   An existing features/site analysis map (§
786, Existing Site Features/Site Analysis Map Standards);
         (b)   A yield plan (§
788, Yield Plan); and
         (c)   An open space development sketch plan (§
789, Open Space Development Sketch Plan (the “Sketch Plan”)).
      (3)   A concept plan application form as prescribed by the Town Planner
in a form which provides a checklist identifying consistency with applicable
design guidelines, the goals of the town’s comprehensive plan; and
      (4)   Stamped envelopes addressed to each owner of property within 500
feet of the property proposed to be subdivided. The names and addresses of
property owners shall be based on the current listing as shown in the County
Tax Office or G.I.S. Department.
STEP 5: PUBLIC INFORMATION MEETING: Upon receipt and acceptance of the concept
plan application, a neighborhood meeting will be scheduled following the
requirements of §
320, Pre-Application Conference, except that: (i) Notices of the meeting shall
be mailed to each owner of property within 500 feet of the property proposed to
be subdivided. Notices shall be mailed by first-class mail at least ten days
prior to the date of the meeting; (ii) the neighborhood meeting shall be held
within 15 days of acceptance of the application; and (iii) the Town Planner
will attend to explain the conservation subdivision application and approval
process. The applicant will attend the meeting to answer questions about the
proposed subdivision and to perform the other duties required by §
321, Neighborhood Meeting.
STEP 6: PLANNING BOARD REVIEW: Within 30 days of the date of the neighborhood
meeting or within such further time consented to in writing by the applicant,
the Town Planner shall submit to the Planning Board its recommendation,
including a written analysis of the concept plan; its general compliance with
the requirements of this ordinance, the comprehensive plan and other applicable
codes and ordinances; and the concerns of citizens expressed at the public
information meeting. If the Town Planner fails to prepare a report to the
Planning Board within the specified time period, or extension thereof, the
concept plan is recommended without conditions. The Planning Commission shall
review the concept plans in accordance with the criteria contained in this
ordinance and with other applicable ordinances of the town. Their review shall
informally advise the applicant of the extent to which the proposed subdivision
conforms to the relevant standards of this ordinance, and may suggest possible
plan modifications that would increase its degree of conformance. Their review
shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The location of all areas proposed for land disturbance (streets,
foundations, yards, septic disposal systems, stormwater management areas and
the like) with respect to notable features of natural or cultural significance
as identified on the applicant’s site analysis map and on the 2010 County
Comprehensive Plan Maps; 3.2, Prime Farmland; 3.3, Wetlands, Floodplains,
Surface Waters and Drainage; 3-4, Slope Analysis and Drainage; 3-5, Scenic By-
Ways, and the town’s comprehensive plan;
      (2)   The potential for street connections with existing streets, other
proposed streets or potential developments on adjoining parcels;
      (3)   The location of proposed access points along the existing road
network;
      (4)   The proposed building density and impervious coverage;
      (5)   The compatibility of the proposal with respect to the objectives
and policy recommendations of the comprehensive plan; and
      (6)   Consistency with the zoning ordinance.
   The Planning Board shall submit its written comments to the applicant and
the Board of Commissioners
   The Planning Board shall consider the concept plan and make a recommendation
to the Board of Commissioners. The Planning Board may recommend:
      (1)   Approval of the concept plan;
      (2)   Approval of the concept plan subject to conditions; or
      (3)   Denial of the concept plan.
STEP 7: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REVIEW: At the next meeting, the Board will
approve the concept plan, approve with conditions, continue deliberations to a
later meeting, return the application to the Planning Board for further
consideration or deny. Any conditions will be reasonable and shall be related
to the applicable town ordinances. If the concept plan is approved or approved
with conditions, the Mayor shall endorse his or her approval on two copies of
the concept plan. The Town Planner shall keep one copy and the other shall be
returned to the applicant. From the date of approval of the concept plan by the
Board of Commissioners the applicant shall have one year to prepare and file an
application for preliminary plat approval. If a preliminary plat application
has not been submitted within one year, the concept plan shall become null and
void.
STEP 8: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL: If the development is built according to the
approved concept plan and preliminary plat, the Town Planner shall approve the
final plat as provided in §
3309, Final Plat.
APPEALS: The decision of the Board of Commissioners regarding the concept plan
may be appealed to the general courts of justice in the county.
§ 786 EXISTING SITE FEATURES/SITE ANALYSIS MAP STANDARDS.
   As determined from readily identifiable on-site inventories, aerial
photographs, maps of record, state/federal resource maps and local planning
documents and inventories, the existing features/site analysis map shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   Primary conservation areas. Identification of physical resources
associated with the site which restrict its development potential or contain
significant natural and/or cultural resources, including:
      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals, showing rock outcrops
and slopes of 15% to 25% and more than 25%;
      (2)   Soil type locations and characteristics relating to seasonal high-
water table and depth to bedrock; and
      (3)   Hydrologic characteristics of the site, including drainage
tributaries, surface water bodies, floodplains and wetlands.
   (B)   Secondary conservation areas. Identification of significant site
elements on buildable portions of the site, including:
      (1)   Vegetation of the site, defining approximate location and
boundaries of woodland areas, and, wherever possible, vegetative association in
terms of species and size. Information from aerial photographs shall be
acceptable at the concept plan stage;
      (2)   Current land use and land cover (cultivated areas, pastures and the
like), existing buildings and structures and burial grounds;
      (3)   Natural areas and wildlife habitats and corridors;
      (4)   Historic and archaeological sites, especially those listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or included on the state’s National
Register study list, designated as a local historic landmark, and/or located in
a local Historic District; and
      (5)   Scenic views onto the site from surrounding roads as well as views
of scenic features from within the site.
   (C)   Transportation and utility systems. Identification of facilities
associated with the movement of people and goods, or the provision of public
services, including:
      (1)   Railroad and street rights-of-way;
      (2)   Easements for vehicular access, electric and gas;
      (3)   Transmission lines and similar uses; and
      (4)   Public and private water and sewer lines, and storm drainage
facilities.
§ 787 CONCEPT PLAN.
   The concept plan is a type of site plan as modified by this Division 8,
Conservation Subdivisions. The concept plan required by this section shall
consist of three parts:
   (A)   An existing features/site analysis map (see §
786, Existing Site Features/Site Analysis Map Standards);
   (B)   A yield plan (see §
788, Yield Plan); and
   (C)   An open space development plan (see §
789, Open Space Development Sketch Plan (the “Sketch Plan”)). The concept plan
shall be prepared according to the “four-step” process for designing open space
subdivisions described in §
787, Concept Plan. In addition, the concept plan shall be prepared by a team,
including at least a civil engineer or registered land surveyor, plus either a
landscape architect or a land use planner experienced in open space design.
   (D)   Design process. Conservation subdivisions shall be designed around
both the primary and secondary conservation areas, which together constitute
the total required open space. The design process begins with the delineation
of all potential open space, after which potential house sites are located.
Following that, access road alignments are identified, with lot lines being
drawn in as the final step. This “four-step” design process is further
described below.
      (1)   Open space designation. During the first step, all potential
conservation areas, both primary and secondary, shall be identified, using the
existing features/site analysis map. Primary conservation areas shall consist
of those features described in §
784(A), Open Space Standards. Secondary conservation areas shall comprise the
natural, scenic and cultural resources as described in §
784(A).
         (a)   Guidance as to which parts of the remaining land to classify as
secondary conservation areas shall be based upon:
            1.   On-site visits;
            2.   The open space standards contained in §
784, Open Space Standards; and
            3.   The evaluation criteria contained in §
789.3, Evaluation Criteria.
      (2)   House site location. During the second step, potential house sites
are tentatively located. The proposed location of houses within each lot
represents a significant decision with potential impacts on the ability of the
development to meet the evaluation criteria contained in §
789.3, Evaluation Criteria. Generally, house sites should be located no closer
than 100 feet from primary conservation areas. Such sites may be situated 50
feet from secondary conservation areas to permit the enjoyment of scenic views
without negatively impacting primary conservation areas.
      (3)   Street alignment and trail networks. The third step consists of
aligning proposed streets to provide vehicular access to each house in the most
reasonable and economical manner, and of laying out a network of informal
trails connecting neighborhood areas with open space features within the
conservation lands. When lots and access streets are laid out, they shall be
located in such a way that avoids or at least minimizes impacts on both primary
and secondary conservation areas. To the greatest extent practicable, wetland
crossings and streets traversing slopes over 15% shall be strongly discouraged
unless such streets link one buildable portion of a site with another when no
other means of access is available.
         (a)   Street connections shall generally be encouraged to minimize the
number of new culs-de-sac to be maintained and to facilitate easy access to and
from homes on different parts of the property and on adjoining parcels. Where
culs-de-sac are necessary, those serving six or fewer homes may be designed
with “T-turnarounds” facilitating three-point turns. Culs-de-sac serving more
than six homes shall generally be designed with a central island containing
indigenous trees and shrubs, either conserved or planted. All culs-de-sac
should provide trail access to the open space and/or other nearby streets. The
creation of single-loaded residential access streets is encouraged to maximize
the number of homes in new developments that may enjoy views of open space. To
make this approach economical, narrower lots as well as flag lots, both of
which help to make the street system more efficient, are permitted in
conservation subdivisions.
      (4)   Drawing in the lot lines. The fourth step consists of drawing in
lot lines around potential house sites. Each lot must contain a buildable area
of sufficient size to accommodate a single-family detached dwelling and
customary accessory uses, including, but not limited to, storage buildings and
garages, patios and decks, lawns and driveways. Individual wells and septic
systems, where these are to be provided, may be located within the undivided
conservation lands if sufficient space is not available on the lot. The
standards of §
789.1, Performance Standards, apply.
      (5)   Note with respect to Village design. For conservation subdivisions
submitted under the Village development option, the sequence of steps is:
conservation areas; streets, squares and trails; house sites; and lot lines. In
this denser development form, the location of streets and squares becomes
elevated in importance, after the identification of primary and secondary
conservation areas. House positions are of lesser importance, as they become
the supporting elements within a larger streetscape. Squares and greens shall
be generally laid out so that they form “terminal vistas” at the ends of
streets, or at the ends of the sight-lines which are terminated by bends in the
streets.
   Each map or plan shall be drawn in black ink or pencil to a scale of not
less than 200 feet to the inch. The scale chosen shall be large enough to show
all required detail clearly and legibly.
   (E)   General information required. Each map or plan required in this
section shall contain the following general information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to the existing street or highway system;
      (2)   The plotted boundaries of the tract from deeds or maps of record
and the portion of the tract to be subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided, including tax map, block and
lot number reference;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the subdivider or owner
and the person responsible for the subdivision design;
      (5)   Scale, approximate north arrow and date of plat preparation; and
      (6)   Name of subdivision.
§ 788 YIELD PLAN.
   The yield plan shall contain the following information:
   (A)   In addition to basic topography shown at two-foot contours, the
location of areas unsuited for development, including wetland locations, 100-
year floodplains and slopes exceeding 15%;
   (B)   The proposed arrangement of lots, including size and number, and
streets within the subdivision, including right-of-way widths; and
   (C)   The location of soils suitable for individual septic systems as
determined by:
      (1)   A map based on the soil survey for the county, published by the
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service, showing the location of soil types
suited for septic systems. This map shall be prepared in consultation with the
Soil Scientist of the Environmental Health Division of the Health Department;
and
      (2)   In reviewing the soils data in relation to the layout of the
proposed lots, the Town Planner or Planning Board may require the applicant to
present the results of the preliminary soil suitability analyses conducted on a
10% to 15% sample of the proposed lots as required in the following subsection
(C)(2)(a).
         (a)   On sites not served by public sewerage or a centralized private
sewage treatment facility, soil suitability for individual septic systems shall
be demonstrated. In areas of the site considered to be marginal for such
systems, typically where the most challenging site conditions exist with
respect to seasonal high-water tables, or shallow depth to bedrock or
restrictive soil layers, a small percentage of lots (10%) shall be tested. The
local government shall select the lots for such testing. If tests on the sample
lots pass the percolation test, the applicant’s other lots shall also be deemed
suitable for septic systems for the purpose of calculating total lot yield.
However, if any of the sample lots fail, several others shall be tested, until
all the lots in a given sample pass.
§ 789 OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT SKETCH PLAN (THE “SKETCH PLAN”).
   A sketch plan shall be submitted by the applicant as a diagrammatic basis
for informal discussion with the Town Planner and Planning Board regarding the
design of a proposed subdivision or land development. It shall be drawn by a
landscape architect or by a physical planner experienced in conservation
subdivision design. One of the purposes of the sketch plans is to help
applicants and officials develop a better understanding of the property and to
help establish an overall design approach that respects its special or
noteworthy features, while providing for the density permitted under the zoning
ordinance.
   (A)   To provide a full understanding of the site’s potential and to
facilitate the most effective exchange with the Town Planner and Planning
Board, the sketch plan should include the information listed below. Many of
these items can be taken from the site analysis map, a document that must in
any case be prepared and submitted no later than the date of the site
inspection, which precedes the preliminary plan. The diagrammatic sketch plan
shall be prepared as an overlay sheet placed on top of the site analysis map,
both maps therefore being drawn to the same scale.
   (B)   Sketch plans shall be prepared by a landscape architect or by a
physical planner with experience designing open space subdivisions. Civil
engineers and surveyors may also be added to the design team at this stage.
However, their role does not become preeminent until the preliminary plan
stage.
   (C)   The open space development sketch plan shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The proposed arrangement of lots within the subdivision, including
size and number;
      (2)   The proposed street layout within the subdivision, including travel
way and right-of-way widths, and connections to existing streets;
      (3)   The location, type and area of the open space proposed in the
subdivision, including open space to be preserved:
         (a)   In a separate lot or lots under the ownership of a homeowners’
association;
         (b)   As part of individually owned lots through a conservation
easement applicable to multiple lots; and
         (c)   In a separate lot or lots through dedication for public use,
such as a park site, to a unit of local government, state government or a
private land conservancy.
      (4)   The location of proposed water supply and sewage disposal
facilities, including:
         (a)   Well sites for individual and community water systems;
         (b)   Nitrification fields and land application areas for community
sewage disposal systems employing subsurface disposal and spray irrigation,
respectively;
         (c)   Nitrification fields and land application areas for individual
on- and off-lot sewage disposal systems employing subsurface disposal and spray
irrigation, respectively; and
         (d)   Public water and sewer lines, where such facilities are
available or capable of being extended.
§ 789.1 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential lot requirements.
      (1)   For the Village option only:
         (a)   Minimum lot sizes shall comply with the R-9M Zoning District
standards; and
         (b)   Setbacks shall be consistent with the R-9M Zoning District,
except as may be modified under subsection (E), Dimensional standards, below.
      (2)   All lots shall take access from interior streets. Existing
farmsteads to be preserved may have a driveway as part of the historic
landscape that does not access a local street.
      (3)   Lots shall be configured to minimize the amount of road length
required for the subdivision.
      (4)   Building lots shall be configured to minimize loss of woodlands.
      (5)   Building lots should not be located along public roads peripheral
to the development or in other visually prominent areas.
      (6)   A 30-foot native vegetation buffer shall be maintained around ponds
and lakes, grassed areas, dams, maintenance easements and other areas approved
by the town.
      (7)   Conservation subdivisions shall minimize the use of curb and gutter
and maximize the use of open swales.
   (B)   Residential siting standards.
      (1)   Residences shall be located to minimize negative impacts on the
natural, scenic and cultural resources of the site and conflicts between
incompatible uses.
      (2)   Residences shall avoid encroaching on rare, threatened or
endangered species habitats.
      (3)   Whenever possible, open space shall connect with existing or
potential open space lands on adjoining parcels and with local or regional
recreational trails and the Carolina Thread Trail Plan.
      (4)   Residences shall be located and designed to achieve the following
goals, to the extent practicable:
         (a)   Minimize impacts to prime farmland soils and large tracts of
land in agricultural use and avoid interference with normal agricultural
practices;
         (b)   Prevent downstream impacts due to runoff through adequate on-
site stormwater management practices;
         (c)   Protect scenic views of open land from adjacent roads. Visual
impact should be minimized through use of landscaping or other features; and
         (d)   Landscaping around residential areas may be necessary to reduce
off-site views of residences.
   (C)   Density determination for conservation subdivisions.
      (1)   To promote the retention of open space, the density ranges
established in
Table 20 shall apply to development within the conservation subdivision zoning
districts that retain open space or agricultural land. Agricultural land shall
be limited to pasture or crop production, with the exception that a single
homestead may be retained on any agricultural tract encompassing 20 or more
acres.
      (2)   Land retained as open space or limited to agricultural uses shall
be designated as a separate parcel or parcels on the subdivision plat and shall
be protected by conservation easement. If an existing homestead is retained on
an agricultural tract, it shall not be counted when calculating the gross
density of the conservation subdivision. The sliding density scale for the
Conservation Subdivision District is established in
Table 20.
Table 20 - Development Densities for Conservation Subdivisions
                          Minimum Percentage of Gross
Maximum Gross Density [1] Acreage Retained for Open   Sample Development (100-
                          Space, Pasture or Crop      Acre Site)
                          Production [2]
Table 20 - Development Densities for Conservation Subdivisions
                          Minimum Percentage of Gross
Maximum Gross Density [1] Acreage Retained for Open   Sample Development (100-
                          Space, Pasture or Crop      Acre Site)
                          Production [2]
2.5 dwellings per acre    50%                         250 lots
                                                      50 acres open space
2 dwellings per acre      40%                         200 lots
                                                      40 acres open space
1 dwelling per acre       30%                         100 lots
                                                      30 acres open space
Notes:
[1] Gross density is the number of dwellings divided by the total number of
acres within the boundaries of the subdivision.
[2] All conservation subdivisions must be served by the town’s sewer system.
 
   (D)   Connectivity.
      (1)   Conservation subdivisions shall have at least two access points
that provide connections to distinct roadways and/or an adjacent development.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may approve the use of a
stubbed-out road for future connection as a secondary access if the subdivision
has fewer than 50 residences. See §
730, Roads.
   (E)   Dimensional standards. Provided the arrangement, design and shape of
house lots is such that lots provide satisfactory and desirable sites for
building and contribute to the preservation of designated primary and/or
secondary conservation areas, minimum lot area, lot width and setback
requirements may be reduced as set forth below.
      (1)   Minimum lot area requirements may be reduced by up to 60% but shall
be no smaller than 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width requirements may be reduced by 40% but shall be
no less than 40 feet.
      (3)   Minimum front setback requirements may be reduced by 50% but shall
be no less than 15 feet.
      (4)   Minimum rear and side setback requirements may be reduced by 50%
but shall be no less than five feet. Side setbacks may be combined on one side,
provided that at least two feet of setback remains on the other. Such
combinations are permitted in lot layouts where this pattern is repeated with
homes located off-center on their lots but evenly spaced between buildings on
adjoining lots.
      (5)   Minimum lot frontage requirements may be reduced to 20 feet to
allow for a driveway extension on a flag lot.
§ 789.2 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE AND COMMON FACILITIES.
   (A)   Alternatives. The designated common open space and common facilities
may be owned and managed by one or a combination of the following:
      (1)   A homeowners’ association;
      (2)   A non-profit conservation organization;
      (3)   Public dedication to the town if the town agrees; and
      (4)   An individual who will use the land for open space or agricultural
purposes allowed by the conservation easement.
   (B)   Homeowners’ association. A homeowners’ association shall be
established if the common open space is proposed to be owned by a homeowners’
association. Membership in the association is mandatory for all purchasers of
homes in the development and their successors. The homeowners’ association
bylaws, guaranteeing continuing maintenance of the open space and other common
facilities, and the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions of
the homeowners’ association, shall be submitted for approval to the town as
part of the information required for the preliminary plat. The homeowners’
association bylaws or the declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
of the homeowners’ association shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The legal description of the common land;
      (2)   A description of common facilities;
      (3)   The restrictions placed upon the use and enjoyment of the lands or
facilities;
      (4)   Persons or entities entitled to enforce the restrictions;
      (5)   A mechanism to assess and enforce the common expenses for the land
or facilities (e.g., utility systems, private roads and other public or quasi-
public improvements), including upkeep and maintenance expenses, real estate
taxes and insurance premiums;
      (6)   A mechanism for resolving disputes among the owners or association
members;
      (7)   The conditions and timing of the transfer of ownership and control
of land facilities to the association; and
      (8)   Any other matter the developer deems appropriate.
   (C)   Non-profit conservation organization. If the common open space is to
be held by a non-profit conservation organization, the organization must be
acceptable to the town. The conveyance to the non-profit conservation
organization must contain appropriate provisions for reversion in the event
that the organization becomes unwilling or unable to uphold the terms of the
conveyance and shall not preclude the ability for the town to extend utilities
within that area in the future, if necessary.
   (D)   Public dedication of open space and streets. The town may at its
discretion accept the dedication of fee title or dedication of a conservation
easement to the common open space. The town may accept the common open space
provided that:
      (1)   The common open space is accessible to the residents of the town
and is identified on a town, county or thread trail plan;
      (2)   The town agrees to and has access to maintain the common open
space; and
      (3)   Streets or other public ways which have been designated on a duly
adopted official map or element of the comprehensive plan shall be dedicated or
reserved by the subdivider to the town.
      (4)   The street or public way shall be made a part of the plat in the
locations and dimensions indicated in the comprehensive plan and as set forth
in this ordinance.
   (E)   Individual ownership. An individual may hold fee title to the land
while a non-profit or other qualified organization holds a conservation
easement use for the common open space.
   (F)   (1)   In the event that the organization established to own and
maintain the open space and common facilities, or any successor organization,
fails to maintain all or any portion of the common facilities in reasonable
order and condition, upon the residents and owners of the open space and common
facilities setting forth the manner in which the organization has failed to
maintain the common facilities in reasonable condition.
      (2)   Such notice shall set forth the nature of corrections required and
the time within which the corrections shall be made.
      (3)   Upon failure to comply within the time specified, the organization,
or any successor organization, shall be considered in violation of this
section, in which case the bond, if any, may be forfeited, and any permits may
be revoked or suspended. The town may enter the premises and take corrective
action.
   (G)   Management plans may be amended by the owner with the approval of the
town.
§ 789.3 EVALUATION CRITERIA.
   In evaluating the layout of lots and open space, the following criteria will
be considered as indicating design appropriate to the site’s features and
meeting the intent of the flexible development standards. Whereas diversity and
originality in lot layout are encouraged, it is recognized that not all
objectives may be achieved on a given site. Each applicant must therefore
strive to achieve the best possible relationship between development and
preservation objectives.
   In evaluating the relative significance of different categories of site
features, or of individual features within certain categories, applicants shall
consider recommendations by the Town Planner (and Planning Board, if the Board
participates in the site visit), during and after the on-site visit which
precedes submission of the concept plan.
   (A)   General criteria. The following criteria apply to all open space
development projects:
      (1)   Protect and preserve all wetlands, floodplains and steep slopes
from clearing, grading, filling or construction except as may be approved by
the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   The shape of the open space shall be reasonably contiguous,
coherently configured and shall abut existing or potential open space on
adjacent properties. Long, narrow segments must be avoided except in the case
of trail or stream corridors, or landscape buffers adjoining street rights-of-
way and/or neighborhood boundaries;
      (3)   The pedestrian circulation system shall be designed to assure that
pedestrians can walk safely and easily on the site, between properties and
activities or special features within the neighborhood open space system. All
roadside footpaths should connect with off-road trails and link with existing
or potential open space on adjoining parcels; and
      (4)   Landscape common areas (neighborhood greens), cul- de-sac islands
and both sides of new streets with native species shade trees and flowering
shrubs with high wildlife conservation value.
   (B)   Forest land/natural areas conservation. Where the goal of the
conservation subdivision project is to conserve forest land and/or natural
areas and wildlife habitats, the following criteria apply.
      (1)   Dwellings should be located in unwooded parts of the site away from
mature forests, natural areas and/or wildlife corridors.
      (2)   To the greatest extent practicable, development should be designed
around existing hedgerows and tree lines between fields or meadows. The impact
on larger woodlands (greater than five acres), especially those containing
mature trees, natural areas and/or wildlife corridors, should be minimized.
      (3)   When any woodland is developed, care shall be taken to locate
buildings, streets, yards and septic disposal fields to avoid mature forests,
natural areas and/or wildlife corridors.
   (C)   Farmland conservation. Where the goal of the open space development
project is to conserve farmland, the following guidelines apply:
      (1)   Locate building lots in forested areas away from existing pastures,
cropland, feedlots and similar uses.
      (2)   If development must be located on open fields or pastures because
of greater constraints on other parts of the site, dwellings should be sited in
locations at the far edge of a field, as seen from a public road.
      (3)   Identify the most productive portions of existing pastures and
cropland and locate building lots on less productive land.
      (4)   Buffers shall be provided between house lots and cropland or
pastures, to reduce the potential for conflict between residents and farming
activities. Such buffers shall generally be 75 feet in width and shall be
managed to encourage the growth of successional woodland.
   (D)   Conservation of scenic views. Where the goal of the conservation
subdivision project is to conserve scenic views, the following guidelines
apply:
      (1)   Leave scenic views and vistas unblocked or uninterrupted,
particularly as seen from public roadways. Consider “no-build, no-plant”
buffers along public roadways where views or vistas are prominent or locally
significant. In wooded areas where enclosure is a feature to be maintained,
consider a “no-build, no-cut” buffer created through the preservation of
existing vegetation;
      (2)   Where development is located in unwooded areas clearly visible from
existing public roads, it should be buffered from direct view by a vegetative
buffer or an earth berm constructed to reflect the topography of the
surrounding area, or located out of sight on slopes below existing ridge lines;
      (3)   Protect rural roadside character and vehicular carrying capacity by
avoiding development fronting on existing public roads; e.g., limiting access
to all lots from interior rather than exterior roads;
      (4)   Protect rural roadside character and scenic views by providing
conservancy lots (e.g., six acres or more in size) adjacent to existing public
roads; and
      (5)   Avoid siting new construction on prominent hilltops or ridges, or
so close to hilltops and ridges that rooflines break the horizon (unless such
buildings can be effectively screened or buffered with trees).
   (E)   Historic and archaeological features. Where the goal of the
conservation subdivision project is to conserve historic and archaeological
sites and structures, the following guidelines apply.
      (1)   Design around and preserve sites of historic, archaeological or
cultural value so as to safeguard the character of the feature(s), including
fences and walls, farm outbuildings, burial grounds, abandoned roads and
earthworks.
      (2)   New streets, driveways, fences and utilities must be sited so as
not to intrude on rural, historic landscapes. Wherever possible, streets and
driveways are to follow existing hedgerows, fence lines and historic farm
drives.
      (3)   New developments must include plantings which reflect natural and
historic landscape materials, and are in harmony with the character of the
area.
      (4)   Building designs and styles used in new construction should be
compatible with the architectural style of historic buildings located on or
adjacent to the site, especially in terms of scale, height, roof shape and
exterior materials.
   (F)   Recreation provision. Where the goal of the conservation subdivision
project is to provide recreation and parks facilities for neighborhood
residents and/or the general public, the guidelines contained in §§
664, Open Space Set-Aside Configuration, and
741, Dedication of Public Land, shall apply.
   (G)   Section 5 water supply and sewage disposal facilities.
      (1)   Alternative options. Water supply and sewage disposal facilities to
serve open space developments may be provided through the use of various
alternatives, including:
         (a)   Individual wells and septic tanks located either on each lot or
in off-lot locations within undivided open space areas designated for such uses
on the final plat and protected through recorded easements;
         (b)   A community water supply and/or sewage disposal system designed,
constructed and maintained in conformity with all applicable state, federal and
local rules and regulations; or
         (c)   Connection to a water supply and/or sewage disposal system
operated by the town or county. System extensions are permitted only in
accordance with applicable water and sewer, and land use policies and shall be
sized only to serve the conservation subdivision.
   (H)   In the event that the organization established to own and maintain the
open space and common facilities, or any successor organization, fails to
maintain all or any portion of the common facilities in reasonable order and
condition upon the residents and owners of the open space and common
facilities, setting forth the manner in which the organization has failed to
maintain the common facilities in reasonable condition. Such notice shall set
forth the nature of corrections required and the time within which the
corrections shall be made. Upon failure to comply within the time specified,
the organization, or any successor organization, shall be considered in
violation of this section, in which case the bond, if any, may be forfeited,
and any permits may be revoked or suspended. The town may enter the premises
and take corrective action.
   (I)   Management plans may be amended by the owner with the approval of the
town.
DIVISION 9. PLAT CERTIFICATES
 
Table 21 - Plat Certificates
Preliminary Plat         Final Plat               Expedited Plat Exempt Plat
§§ 790, 791, 792, 793, §§ 796, 797, 798, 799.1§ 799.3        
799.2
                        Optional: § 7942, 7951,               Optional §
                         799                                     799.3
Notes:
[1] Required if final ownership and maintenance of roads is not determined
as of the time of final plat approval.
[2] Required for all roads that are to be maintained by the State Department
of Transportation.
 
§ 790 CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY AND ACCURACY.
   I,               ,certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from
an actual survey made under my supervision (deed description recorded in Book
              , page               etc.) (other); that the boundaries not
surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book
              page               that the ratio of precision or positional
accuracy as calculated is               ; that this plat was prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended. Witness my original signature,
license number and seal this day of            , 2        .
Seal or Stamp
                                                            
Professional Land Surveyor
License Number #               .
§ 791 PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE.
   As denoted by an “X” below, I,               , certify as to the following:
   (A)   The survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a county
or municipality that has an ordinance that regulates parcels of land.
   (B)   The survey is in a portion of a county or municipality that is
unregulated as to an ordinance that regulates parcels of land.
   (C)   Any one of the following:
      (1)   The survey is of an existing parcel or parcels of land or one or
more existing easements and does not create a new street or change an existing
street. For the purposes of this subsection (C), an EXISTING PARCEL or EXISTING
EASEMENT is an area of land described in a single, legal description or legally
recorded subdivision that has been or may be legally conveyed to a new owner by
deed in its existing configuration;
      (2)   The survey is of an existing feature, such as a building or other
structure, or natural feature, such as a watercourse;
      (3)   The survey is a control survey. For the purpose of this subsection
(C)(3), a CONTROL SURVEY is a survey that provides horizontal or vertical
position data for support or control of other surveys or for mapping. A control
survey, by itself, cannot be used to define or convey rights or ownership; or
      (4)   The survey is of a proposed easement for a public utility as
defined in §
1030, Defined Terms.
   (D)   The survey is of another category, such as the recombination of
existing parcels, a court-ordered survey or other exemption or exception to the
definition of subdivision.
   (E)   The information available to the surveyor is such that the surveyor is
unable to determine to the best of the surveyor’s professional ability as to
provisions contained in subsections (A) through (D) above.
                                         
Professional Land Surveyor
License Number #               
§ 792 CERTIFICATE OF FLOOD ZONE INFORMATION.
   Property shown hereon                      is/is not located in a FEMA
designated flood zone. FEMA Flood Hazard Panel:               ; Effective Date:
              
                                       
Professional Land Surveyor
License Number #               
§ 793 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP, MAINTENANCE AND DEDICATION.
   I hereby certify that I am the owner (or corporate officer) of the property
shown and described hereon, which is located in the zoning and subdivision
jurisdiction of Oakboro and that I hereby adopt this subdivision plan with my
free consent, establish minimum setback lines and dedicate all streets, alleys,
parks and other sites and easements to the public or private as noted. I
understand that I am responsible for maintenance of public property shown
hereon until it is accepted by the appropriate government entity.
                                                            
Date      Owner/Officer or Corporation
§ 794 STATE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION DIVISION OF HIGHWAYS CERTIFICATE.
   Proposed Subdivision Road Construction Standards Certification
Approved:                                         
      Date   District Engineer
Note: Only State Department of Transportation approved structures are to be
constructed on public right-of-way.
Note: Site triangle takes precedent over any sign easement.
Note: Owner, developer or contractor shall set the centerline of the existing
roadway ditch back to a minimum of 12 feet from the existing/proposed edge of
pavement along all road front lots. Note: All drainage easements shall be
dedicated as public, and it shall be the responsibility of the property owners
to maintain the drainage easements and any drainage structures therein, so as
to maintain the integrity of the drainage system and ensure positive drainage.
Note: All lots shall be served by the internal street system.
§ 795 ROAD MAINTENANCE STATEMENT.
   I,               am responsible for the construction, maintenance and
required road improvements of the subdivision streets on this plat until the
earlier of the follow occurs:
   (A)   Approved and accepted for permanent maintenance by the State
Department of Transportation as public roads;
   (B)   Approved and taken over by the Homeowners’ Association for private
roads permanent maintenance; or
   (C)   Private road maintenance agreement is signed and recorded by owners of
each lot.
                                              
Name of Corporation or Owner
                                                                              
Date      Developer/Owner/Officer of Corporation
§ 796 CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL OF A FINAL PLAT.
   Certificate of Approval for Recording - Subdivision Plat
   I hereby certify: 1) that streets, utilities and other required improvements
of this subdivision have been installed in an acceptable manner and according
to town specifications and standards; or 2) that a satisfactory performance
guarantee for the installation of the required improvements has been received
and approved by the town; and 3) that the subdivision plat shown hereon has
been found to comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Oakboro,
North Carolina, and that this plat has been approved for recording in the
Office of the Register of Deeds of Stanly County. This plat is null and void if
not recorded at the Stanly County Deed Registry within 60 days of the date
written below.
                                       
Date      Town Planner
§ 797 REVIEW OFFICER’S CERTIFICATION.
   State of North Carolina County of               
   I,               , Review Officer of Stanly County, certify that the map or
plat to which this certification is affixed meets all statutory requirements
for recording.
                                         
Date      Review Officer
§ 798 REGISTER OF DEEDS CERTIFICATION.
   State of North Carolina, Stanly County.
   This instrument was presented for registration and recording this         
day of             , 20         at               .
               by                                                
Register of Deeds                                         Asst. Reg. of Deeds
                                 
Recorded in PB               PG               
§ 799 ACCEPTANCE OF OFFER OF DEDICATION.
   NOTE: To be used only if Town Board of Commissioners accepts an offer of
dedication at the TIME OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   I hereby certify that all parks and greenways as shown on this plat were
accepted, as specified, by the Board of Commissioners by a resolution adopted
at the meeting held on               2         .
                                    
Date      Town Clerk
§ 799.1 SUBDIVISION ROAD DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   Developers are required to give lot purchases a subdivision street
disclosure statement pursuant to G.S. § 136-102.6(f).
§ 799.2 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   I hereby certify that the preliminary plat for this subdivision was approved
by the Board of Commissioners on               2               .
                                
Date      Mayor
§ 799.3 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF EXEMPT OR EXPEDITED PLAT.
   Certificate of Approval for Recording - Exempt or Expedited Plat
   I hereby certify that this plat is exempt from the Subdivision Regulations
with the Town of Oakboro, North Carolina, and that this plat has been approved
for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Stanly County.
                                        
Date      Town Planner
ARTICLE 8. NONCONFORMITIES
DIVISION 1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 810 NONCONFORMITIES, GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. There are existing structures, uses of land and
lots of record that were lawfully established before the effective date of this
ordinance or a subsequent amendment thereto that now do not conform to
standards and requirements of this ordinance. Such uses, structures and lots
are collectively referred to as “nonconformities.” The purpose and intent of
this article is to allow nonconformities to continue to exist, but to regulate
and limit their continued existence and expansion so as to bring them into
conformity with the provisions to the extent that is reasonably practicable.
   (B)   Determination of nonconformity status. In all cases, the burden of
establishing that a nonconformity lawfully exists shall be the responsibility
of the landowner of the land on which the alleged nonconformity is located.
   (C)   Continuation, minor repairs and maintenance allowed.
      (1)   Continuation. Nonconformities are allowed to continue in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
      (2)   Completion. Nonconforming projects incomplete as of July 1, 2022,
shall only be completed in accordance with this article and §
123, Transitional Provisions.
      (3)   Maintenance allowed. Nonconformities are allowed and encouraged to
receive minor repairs and routine maintenance that are necessary to maintain
the nonconformity and its surroundings in a safe condition and to protect
against health hazards.
      (4)   Strengthening allowed. Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the
strengthening or restoration to a safe or lawful condition of any part of any
building or structure declared unsafe or unlawful by a duly authorized town
official.
   (D)   Change of tenancy or ownership. No change in tenancy or ownership
shall limit the continuance of a lawfully established nonconformity.
DIVISION 2. NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
§ 820 EXISTING LOTS OF INSUFFICIENT SIZE.
   Any lot of record existing before the adopted date of the ordinance from
which this article is derived, which has an area or width which is less than
required by this article, shall be subject to the following exceptions and
modifications.
   (A)   Adjoining lots. When two or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in one ownership at any time after the adoption of the ordinance,
and such lots individually are less than the minimum square footage and/or have
less than the minimum width required in the district in which they are located,
then such group of lots shall be considered as a single lot of minimum
permitted width and area for the district in which located. This does not apply
to lots of record or to any lot in a subdivision which has received final
approval from the town. Unless served by the town’s sewer and water systems,
such lots must meet all State and County Environmental Health Department
requirements.
   (B)   Lot not meeting minimum lot size requirements. Except as set forth in
subsection (A) above, in any district in which single-family dwellings are
permitted, any lot of record existing at the time of the adoption of these
regulations which as an area or width which is less than required by these
regulations may be used as a building site for a single-family dwelling.
   (C)   Side yard requirements. Except as set forth in subsection (A) above,
where a lot has a width less than the width required in the district in which
it is located, then the Town Planner shall be authorized to reduce the side
yard requirements for such lot; provided, however, no side yard shall be less
than five feet wide.
DIVISION 3. NONCONFORMING SIGNS
§ 830 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   A legal nonconforming sign may be maintained and repaired even
though such repair will not bring the sign into compliance with this article.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs which have been damaged, destroyed, demolished
or removed either by accident or natural causes may be reconstructed and used
as before only if the cost of such reconstruction does not exceed 50% of the
cost of erecting a new sign of the same type that conforms to the requirements
in this article.
      (3)   The permit required for such construction must be applied for
within one year of the date of the damage. Evidence of the cost of such
reconstruction and the cost of erection of a new conforming sign shall be
submitted to the Town Planner at the time of application for the required
permit, but such evidence shall not be conclusive of the Town Planner’s
decision in issuing the required permit.
   (B)   Change of sign face. The sign face or copy on a legal nonconforming
sign may be changed, provided the following criteria below are met.
      (1)   The sign may not be reconstructed or relocated.
      (2)   The use being advertised does not change.
      (3)   There shall be no increase in the size of the sign.
   (C)   Permit required. The change of sign face or repairs on a legal
nonconforming sign requires a zoning compliance certificate and payment of the
requisite fee.
DIVISION 4. NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
§ 840 APPLICABILITY.
   Nonconforming principal and accessory structures shall be subject to the
standards in this section.
§ 841 CONTINUATION AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Continuation. A nonconforming structure may be continued in accordance
with §
810(C), Continuation, minor repairs and maintenance allowed.
   (B)   Replacement.
      (1)   Residential development.
         (a)   Nonconforming single-family dwellings and nonconforming
manufactured or mobile homes may be reconstructed in accordance with the
standards in §
842, Alteration and Expansion.
         (b)   Nonconforming residential structures, other than single-family
detached dwellings and manufactured or mobile homes, subject to damage by fire,
explosion, flood or other calamity may be reconstructed in the same location
and with the same footprint as existed prior to damage. In no instance shall
replacement of a nonconforming residential structure increase the
nonconformity.
         (c)   Nothing shall limit activities that increase habitable space of
a nonconforming residential structure to a height above the regulatory flood
elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential development.
         (a)   After damage in excess of 50% of assessed value. In the event of
damage by fire, explosion, flood, calamity or other causes to an extent of
exceeding 50% of its assessed value prior to such damage, reconstruction of a
nonconforming nonresidential structure shall be permitted only in compliance
with the applicable requirements of this ordinance.
         (b)   After damage less than 50% of assessed value. In the event of
damage by fire, explosion, flood, calamity or other causes to an extent less
than 50% of its assessed value prior to such damage, reconstruction of a
nonconforming nonresidential structure shall be allowed, provided it is
constructed:
            1.   In accordance with an approved site plan or building permit,
as applicable;
            2.   In the same location and up to the same dimensions as
originally existed;
            3.   In compliance with the current dimensional requirements; and
            4.   In accordance with State Building Code requirements.
      (3)   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved, in whole
or in part, to another location on or off the parcel of land on which it is
located, unless the relocation reduces or removes the nonconformity.
§ 842 ALTERATION AND EXPANSION.
   (A)   Alteration. No conforming structure may be altered in any way which
increases the nonconformity; however, any nonconforming structure or portion
thereof may be altered to decrease the degree of nonconformity. Nothing shall
limit the elevation of a residential structure as necessary to ensure habitable
floor area is outside the regulatory flood elevation.
   (B)   Enlargement. Any enlargement of a nonconforming structure shall be
configured so as to not increase the degree of nonconformity.
§ 843 CESSATION.
   A nonconforming structure may be re-occupied by a conforming structure
following discontinuance of a prior use.
DIVISION 5. NONCONFORMING USES
§ 850 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Intent. Within the districts established by this ordinance, there may
exist lots, structures or land uses which were lawful before the ordinance from
which this article is derived, for that reason considered grandfathered, and
was passed but which would be prohibited or restricted under the terms of this
article. It is the intent of this division to permit those nonconforming uses
to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuation.
Such lots, structures and uses of land shall be termed nonconforming and shall
be subject to the provisions set forth in this division.
   (B)   Vacant lots. This category of nonconformance consists of vacant lots
for which plats or descriptions have been recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds, which, at the time of adoption or amendment of the
ordinance, fail to comply with the dimensional requirements for the districts
in which they are located. Any such nonconforming lot may be used for any of
the minimum uses permitted by this division for the district in which it is
located, provided that it meets the yard requirements of that district.
   (C)   Structures. This category of nonconformance consists of structures
existing at the time of adoption or amendment of the ordinance, whose size or
location does not conform with the yard, height, lot area, lot coverage or
other dimensional provisions of this article or any amendment thereto. Such
structures may remain, and their nonconforming use may continue, provided that
any enlargement to such structures must conform to all applicable requirements
of this division. If such structures are damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion or other calamity, they may be reconstructed, provided that when
reconstructed they comply with all applicable requirements of this article. If
a nonconforming structure is moved from its location, it can only be replaced
with a structure which conforms to the district regulations.
   (D)   Uses of land. This category of nonconformance consists of lots used
for storage and salvage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking and similar open
uses where the only buildings on the lot are incidental and accessory to the
open use of the lot and where such use is not permitted to be established
hereafter under this ordinance in the district in which it is located.
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extend to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date
of the ordinance from which this article is derived.
      (2)   No nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use.
      (3)   Where any nonconforming use of land, in part or whole, is made to
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located, the part of
the whole which has been made to conform may not thereafter be changed in such
a manner as would be nonconforming.
      (4)   Nonconforming uses shall not be reestablished after discontinuance
for a period of 180 days, except in conformance with this article.
   (E)   Uses of buildings or structures. This category of nonconformance
consists of buildings or structures used at the time of enactment of the
ordinance from which this article is derived, or amendment thereto, for
purposes of use not permitted in the district in which they are located. Such
uses may be continued as follows.
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this article.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this article.
      (3)   No nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use,
except that the Board of Commissioners may permit as a special use a change in
the nonconforming use if the Board finds that such new use would be more in
character with the uses permitted in the district than the previous use,
provided that once the Board of Commissioners has permitted such substitution,
the new use shall not lose its status as a legal nonconforming use and become
subject to any conditions required by the Board of Commissioners. Once such
change has been made, use of the structure may not revert to the previous
nonconforming use.
      (4)   Where any nonconforming structure or use in part or whole is made
to conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located, the part
or whole which has been made to conform may not thereafter be changed in such a
manner as would be nonconforming.
      (5)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 180
consecutive days, the future use of the building or land must be a conforming
use.
      (6)   Maintenance and repairs necessary to keep a structure housing a
nonconforming use in sound condition shall be permitted.
      (7)   Should a nonconforming structure be deployed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its replacement value at the time of destruction, it
shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
article, or until a special use permit has been granted by the Board of
Commissioners. The special use permit must be applied for within 180 days after
the structure has been destroyed.
ARTICLE 9. ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 910 PURPOSE.
   This section establishes procedures to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this ordinance and obtain corrections for ordinance violations. It also sets
forth the remedies and penalties that apply to violations of this ordinance.
The provisions of this section are intended to encourage the voluntary
correction of violations, where possible.
§ 911 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Compliance with all the procedures, standards and other provisions of this
ordinance is required by all persons owning, developing, managing, using or
occupying land or structures in the town.
§ 912 STATUTES OF LIMITATION.
   Enforcement of violations of this ordinance shall be in accordance with G.S.
§§ 1-49(3) and 1-51(5).
DIVISION 2. DESCRIPTION OF VIOLATIONS
§ 920 TYPES OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this ordinance shall be subject to the remedies and
penalties provided by this ordinance and by state law. Violations of this
ordinance shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
   (A)   Disturbance, or other activity of any nature upon land or improvements
thereon subject to the jurisdiction of this ordinance without all required
plans, permits, certificates or other forms of authorization as set forth in
this ordinance;
   (B)   Development inconsistent with authorization. Engaging in any
development, use, construction, land disturbance or other activity of any
nature in any way inconsistent with any approved plan, permit, certificate or
other form of authorization granted for such activity;
   (C)   Violation by an act or omission. Any term, variance, modification,
adjustment, condition or qualification placed upon any required plan, permit,
certificate or other form of authorization for the development, use,
construction, land disturbance or other activity upon land or improvements
thereon;
   (D)   Use in violation. Erecting, constructing, altering, repairing,
maintaining or using any building or structure, or use of any land in violation
of this ordinance or any regulation made under the authority conferred thereby;
   (E)   Subdivide in violation. Subdividing land in violation of this
ordinance, or transferring land by reference to a plat or map showing a
subdivision of land before the plat or map has been properly approved under
this ordinance and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds;
   (F)   Continue operation following permit revocation. Continuing with
construction or operation of a use, building, structure or activity following
permit revocation conducted in accordance with the standards of this section;
and
   (G)   Violation of environmental regulations. Failing to follow or violating
the following rules or regulations:
      (1)   
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention; or
      (2)   
Chapter 152, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation.
DIVISION 3. ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 930 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   (A)   General. The owner, tenant or occupant of any land or structure, or
part thereof, and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent or other
person who participates in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any such
situation that is contrary to the requirements of this ordinance, may be held
responsible for the violation and be subject to the penalties and remedies
provided in Division 4, Remedies, and Division 5, Assessment of Civil
Penalties.
   (B)   Failure by town does not relieve individuals. Failure of a town
official charged with enforcement responsibility to observe or recognize
conditions which violate the intent and purpose of this section, or to deny the
issuance of a development permit, shall not relieve the landowner from
responsibility for the condition or damages that may result and shall not
result in the town, its officers or agents being responsible for conditions or
damages.
§ 931 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Investigations. As appropriate, any of the reviewing authorities
listed in this ordinance have the power to conduct such investigation as may be
deemed necessary to carry out their duties as prescribed in the UDO or other
town ordinances.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   As appropriate, any of the reviewing authorities listed in this
ordinance have the right, upon receipt of permission from a responsible person,
to enter on any premises within the jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the
purpose of inspecting locations subject to any complaints or alleged
violations, or determination of compliance or other enforcement action of this
UDO or other town ordinance.
      (2)   If any person charged with enforcing this ordinance cannot obtain
permission to enter from a responsible person, the town shall obtain an
administrative search warrant prior to entering the property.
   (C)   Supporting documentation. As appropriate, any of the review
authorities listed in this section have the power to compel a person
responsible for an alleged violation to provide written statements,
certificates, certifications or reports relating to complaints or alleged
violations of this UDO or other town ordinance.
§ 932 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Complaints.
      (1)   Whenever the Town Planner receives a written and signed compliant
alleging a violation of this ordinance, the Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement
Officer or other town official or agent shall investigate the violation
allegation in accordance with the standards in this section.
      (2)   The Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement Officer or other town official
or agent, as appropriate, shall inform the complainant as to whether or not a
violation of this town was discovered upon investigation, and if a violation is
found to exist, the actions that will be taken by the town to address the
violation.
      (3)   Nothing shall limit the Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement Officer or
other town official or agent from investigating possible violations of this
ordinance without receipt of a written complaint.
   (B)   Violation discovered. When the Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement
Officer or other town official or agent finds a violation of this ordinance,
they shall take the following actions.
      (1)   Preparation of written notice of violation. A written notice of
violation shall be prepared, in writing, and delivered to the person(s)
responsible for the violation. The notice shall include all of following:
         (a)   Violation exists. That the land, building, structure, sign, use
or activity is in violation of this ordinance;
         (b)   Nature of the violation. The nature of the violation, and
citation of the section(s) of this ordinance violated;
         (c)   Remedy. The measures necessary to remedy the violation;
         (d)   Allowable time period. The time period in which the violation
must be corrected;
         (e)   Penalties that may be assessed. That penalties or remedies may
be assessed; and
         (f)   Appeal. The party cited has the right to appeal the notice in
accordance with §
3301, Appeals.
      (2)   Delivery of written notice. Written notice of violation shall be
provided to the landowner, occupant or any other responsible person by any of
the following means:
         (a)   Certified mail;
         (b)   Registered mail to their last known address;
         (c)   Personal service;
         (d)   Federal Express or other similar delivery service permitted by
State Rule of Civil Procedure 4; and
         (e)   Optional: posting notice conspicuously on the property.
      (3)   Initial notice shall constitute final notice. The initial written
notice of a violation may constitute final notice regarding a violation though
additional written notice may be provided, in the sole discretion of the Town
Planner, Zoning Enforcement Officer or other town staff or agent.
      (4)   Remedy required upon notice. Upon delivery of a written notice of a
violation, the landowner or any other responsible person shall remedy the
violation within the allowable time period.
      (5)   Emergency situations. In cases where the delay resulting from the
notification process would pose a danger to the public health, safety or
welfare, the Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement Officer or other town staff or
agent may seek enforcement of this ordinance without prior written notification
and may invoke any of the remedies available in
Article 9, Division 4, Remedies.
      (6)   Failure to comply with order. If the landowner, occupant or any
other responsible person fails to comply with a notice of violation from which
no appeal has been taken, or a final decision by the Board of Adjustment
following an appeal, the landowner, occupant or other responsible party shall
be subject to such remedies and penalties as may be provided for by state law
or
Article 9, Division 4, Remedies.
      (7)   Each day a separate violation. Each day a violation continues
following notice or failure to comply is considered a separate and distinct
violation of this ordinance.
DIVISION 4. REMEDIES
   Any of the following remedies may be applied by the town, whether
individually or in combination, in response to a violation of this UDO.
§ 940 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Any responsible person who violates any provision of this ordinance shall be
subject to the assessment of a civil penalty under the procedures provided in
Article 9, Division 5, Assessment of Civil Penalties.
§ 941 DENIAL OF PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Planner may withhold or deny a permit, certificate or other
authorization for the same land, subdivision, building, structure, sign, use or
development activity in which there is an uncorrected violation of this UDO.
§ 942 CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Town Planner or other town staff or agent, as appropriate, may
condition a permit, certificate or other authorization for land, subdivision,
building, structure, sign, use or development activity with a violation in
order to compel:
      (1)   Correction of the violation;
      (2)   Payment of civil penalties; and
      (3)   Posting of a compliance security, as approved by the appropriate
governmental authority.
   (B)   In no instance shall a permit, certificate or approval for one
property be conditioned in order to address a violation on a different
property.
§ 943 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   General. Whenever the Town Planner, or other town staff or agent, as
appropriate, determines that a person is engaged in doing work that
constitutes, creates or results in a violation of this UDO and that irreparable
injury will occur if the violation is not terminated immediately, the Town
Planner, other town staff or agent, as appropriate, may order the specific part
of the work that constitutes, creates or results in a violation of this
ordinance to be immediately stopped.
   (B)   Order in writing. The stop work order shall be in writing and directed
to the landowner, and the occupant or person doing the work. The stop work
order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons for the
stoppage and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the issuance of a stop work order may
appeal the issuance of the order to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
§
3301, Appeals. An appeal shall stay the stop work order unless the Town Planner
submits an affidavit to the Board of Adjustment as provided in §
3301(C), Appeals, Stay of enforcement actions.
   (D)   Compliance required. Neither the responsible person nor a landowner
upon whom a stop work order is served shall continue with work in violation of
the stop work order while it remains in effect unless the order is stayed in
accordance with subsection (C) above.
§ 944 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The town may, in its sole discretion, initiate a process to revoke a
prior development approval or permit in response to a violation of this
ordinance. The Town Planner or the building inspector, as appropriate, may
initiate the revocation process by notifying the permit holder in writing, at
least ten days prior to the commencement of revocation proceedings, stating the
reason for the proposed revocation.
   (B)   Permits or certificates may be revoked, in accordance with G.S. §
160D-403(f), for any of the following:
      (1)   Any substantial departure from the approved application, plans or
specifications;
      (2)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or
local laws; or
      (3)   For making false statements or misrepresentations in securing the
permit, certificate or approval.
   (D)   Any permit or certificate mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or county law may also be revoked by the appropriate
authority.
§ 945 RESERVED.
§ 946 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Action by own Board of Commissioners. Whenever the Board of
Commissioners has reasonable cause to believe that any person is violating or
threatening to violate this UDO, or any rule or order adopted or issued
pursuant to this UDO, or any term, condition or provision of an approved
development plan, it may, either before or after the institution of any other
action or proceeding authorized by this ordinance, institute a civil action in
the name of the town, for injunctive relief to restrain, correct, abate,
mandate or enjoin the violation or threatened violation.
   (B)   Superior court. The action shall be brought in the county superior
court. Upon determination by the court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened, it shall enter such orders or judgments as are necessary to
abate the violation or to prevent the threatened violation.
   (C)   No relief from criminal penalties. The institution of an action for
injunctive relief under this section shall not relieve a party in violation of
this UDO from any applicable civil or criminal penalty.
§ 947 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to an injunction, the town may apply for, and the court may
enter an order of abatement as part of the judgment in the case. An order of
abatement may direct any of the following actions:
   (A)   Buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished or
removed;
   (B)   Fixtures, furniture or other moveable property be moved or removed
entirely;
   (C)   Improvements, alterations, modifications or repairs be made; or
   (D)   Any other action be taken as necessary to bring the property into
compliance with this UDO.
§ 948 EQUITABLE REMEDY.
   The town may apply to a court of law for any appropriate equitable remedy to
enforce the provisions of this UDO. The fact that other remedies are provided
under general law or this UDO shall not be used by a violator as a defense to
the town’s application for equitable relief.
§ 949 STATE AND COMMON LAW REMEDIES.
   In addition to other enforcement provisions contained in this section, the
Board of Commissioners may exercise any and all enforcement powers granted to
it by state or common law.
§ 949.1 ENFORCEMENT OF SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   In the event of conflict between the enforcement provisions of this article
and any of the following, the county or town ordinances located outside of the
UDO shall apply:
   (A)   
Chapter 152, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control; or
   (B)   
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention.
DIVISION 5. ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES
§ 950 AMOUNT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The minimum civil penalties for violation of this article shall be as
follows:
   (A)   First offense: $150;
   (B)   Second offense: $200;
   (C)   Subsequent offenses: $300; and
   (D)   In addition to any civil remedies set out in this section, the town,
in its sole discretion, may seek, as an alternative and/or additional relief,
the recovery of its actual investigative cost where those administrative costs
are determined to be greater than $500.
§ 951 PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Written notification required. Civil penalties may not be assessed
until the responsible person in violation has been notified in accordance with
§
932, Enforcement Procedures. Nothing shall prevent the notice of violation from
serving as the written notice of penalty assessment of civil penalties.
   (B)   Notice of penalty assessment. Notice of the civil penalty assessment
shall be served in the same manner as a notice of violation.
   (C)   Assessment contents. The assessment notice shall state the nature of
the violation, the civil penalty to be imposed upon the violator and shall
direct the violator to pay the civil penalty within ten days of the date of the
notice of penalty assessment.
   (D)   Assessment until compliance. Civil penalties may be assessed until
compliance is achieved.
§ 952 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   For each day the violation is not corrected, the violator will be guilty of
an additional and separate offense and subject to additional civil penalty.
§ 953 DEMAND FOR PAYMENT.
   If compliance is not achieved, then the Town Planner, Zoning Enforcement
Officer or other town staff or agent, as appropriate, shall make written demand
for payment of penalties that have accrued while the property has been in
violation. The demand for payment shall be sent to the responsible person in
violation and must include a description of the violation for which the civil
penalties have been imposed.
§ 954 NONPAYMENT.
   If payment is not received or equitable settlement reached within ten days
after demand for payment is made, the town may recover any unpaid civil penalty
by filing a civil action in the nature of debt or by placing a lien on the
property.
ARTICLE 10. MEASUREMENT AND DEFINITIONS
DIVISION 1. RULES OF LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTION
   The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and
provisions of this ordinance.
§ 1010 MEANINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this
ordinance shall be interpreted in accordance with the general purposes set
forth in §
115, Purpose and Intent, and the specific purpose statements set forth
throughout this ordinance.
   (B)   When a specific section of these regulations gives a different meaning
than the general definition provided in Division 3 of this article, the
specific section’s meaning and application of the term shall control.
   (C)   Terms that are not defined are subject to their common or customary
meaning.
§ 1011 HEADINGS, ILLUSTRATIONS AND TEXT.
   (A)   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the text of this
ordinance and any heading, caption, figure, illustration, table or map, the
text shall control.
   (B)   Graphics and other illustrations are provided for informational
purposes only and should not be relied upon as a complete and accurate
description of all applicable regulations or requirements.
   (C)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms like “for example,” “including” and “such as,”
or similar language are intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive
lists of all possibilities.
§ 1012 TIME-RELATED LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Computation of time.
      (1)   The time in which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day.
      (2)   If a deadline or required date of action falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or holiday observed by the town, the deadline or required date of action
shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday observed by the
town.
   (B)   Whenever certain hours are named, they shall mean standard time or
daylight savings time as may be in current use by the town.
   (C)   The term DAY means a calendar day, or any day during a week, including
business days and weekend days.
   (D)   The term HOLIDAY means a legal holiday recognized by the town.
   (E)   The term WEEK means five business days and two weekend days. Weeks
commence on a Monday.
   (F)   The term MONTH means a calendar month.
   (G)   The term YEAR means a calendar year.
   (H)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean a condition lasting for only a limited
period of time; not permanent.
§ 1013 REFERENCES.
   (A)   References to this ordinance. A reference to an article, section,
subsection or paragraph means an article, section, subsection or paragraph of
this ordinance, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   References to other regulations or publications. Whenever reference is
made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or document, it shall be
construed as a reference to the most recent edition or adopted version of such
regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or document, unless
otherwise specifically stated.
   (C)   References to state statutes. Whenever any provision of this ordinance
refers to or cites a section of the state statutes, and that section is later
amended or superseded, this ordinance shall be deemed amended to refer to the
amended section.
§ 1014 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision of this ordinance
requires or authorizes an officer or employee of the town to do some act or
perform some duty, the officer or employee may designate, delegate or authorize
subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the terms of the provision
specifically provide otherwise.
   (B)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   (C)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of the town, unless otherwise
indicated.
§ 1015 TERMINOLOGY.
   (A)   Technical and non-technical terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   (B)   Mandatory and discretionary terms.
      (1)   The words SHALL, MUST and WILL are mandatory in nature,
establishing an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision.
      (2)   The words MAY, CAN and SHOULD are permissive in nature.
   (C)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply.
      (2)   OR indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events apply.
   (D)   Tenses, plurals and gender of words.
      (1)   Words used in the past or present tense include the future tense as
well as the past and present.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural number, and
the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise.
      (3)   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender and
the neuter, and vice versa.
   (E)   Term not defined. If a term used in this ordinance is not defined, the
Town Planner is authorized to interpret the term in accordance with §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations, based upon the definitions used in
professionally accepted sources.
§ 1016 OATH.
   The term OATH shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in
which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases
the terms SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the terms AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
DIVISION 2. RULES OF MEASUREMENT
§ 1020 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to clarify the rules of measurement and
exemptions that apply to all principal and accessory uses allowed in this
ordinance. These standards may be modified by other applicable sections of this
ordinance.
§ 1021 MEASUREMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Straight lines. Unless otherwise stated in this ordinance, distances
specified in this ordinance are to be measured as the length of an imaginary
straight line joining two points.
   (B)   Rounding. Unless otherwise provided in this section or elsewhere in
this ordinance, numerical operations that result in fractions shall be rounded
upwards or downwards in accordance with this section.
      (1)   Density. When the determination of the number of dwelling units
permitted on a lot results in a fraction of a dwelling unit, any fractional
component shall be disregarded and rounded down to the nearest whole number.
      (2)   All other instances. All calculations that result in a fractional
unit or part of a whole number, a fraction of one-half or more shall be rounded
up to the next highest whole unit, and a fraction of less than one-half shall
be disregarded.
      (3)   Irregular shapes. In cases where an irregular shape complicates the
application of these standards, the Town Planner shall determine the applicable
dimensional, setback or bulk standards in accordance with the standards in this
section and §
3306, Determinations and Interpretations.
   (C)   Separation.
      (1)   Lot to lot. When the provisions of this ordinance require
separation between two or more lots, or a lot and another feature, separation
shall be measured by drawing straight lines from the nearest point of one lot
line to the nearest point of the lot line subject to the separation requirement
(see
Figure 75, Separation).
      (2)   Use type to use type. When the provisions of this ordinance require
one use type to be separated from another use type, separation shall be
measured by drawing straight lines from the nearest point of the wall of one
existing or proposed principal structure to the nearest point of the wall of
another existing or proposed structure subject to the separation requirement.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1867.png]
 
Figure 75 - Separations
   (D)   Abutting versus adjacent.
      (1)   Abutting. The term abutting describes a condition where two or more
features (a lot line, building, driveway and the like) are immediately beside
or next to one another either on the same lot or on different lots sharing a
common lot line.
      (2)   Adjacent. The term adjacent describes a condition where two or more
similar features (a lot line, building, use type, structure, site feature and
the like) are proximate to one another, but are separated by some form of
intervening feature, such as a street, alley, water feature, railroad, lot or
property under separate ownership or natural feature of sufficient size so as
to prevent direct site visibility or impede the movement of sound from one
feature to another.
§ 1022 LOT DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Lot measurements.
      (1)   Acreage. The total number or gross number of acres on a tract or
site.
      (2)   Lot depth. The dimension measured from the front of the lot to the
extreme rear line of the lot. In case of irregularly shaped lots, the mean
depth shall be taken (see
Figure 76: Lot Measurements).
      (3)   Lot width. The width of a lot is measured at right angles to its
depth at the edge of the street setback or at a proposed building setback line,
whichever is further from the street right-of-way.
      (4)   Minimum lot area. The minimum amount of required land area,
measured horizontally, that must be included within the lines of a lot. Lands
located within any private easements shall be included within the lot area.
      (5)   Street frontage. The length of the lot line of a single lot
abutting a public or existing private street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1869.png]
Figure 76 - Lot Measurements
   (B)    Lot lines. A lot line is a line of record bounding a lot which
separates one lot from another lot or separates that lot from a public or
private street or any other public space. The following terms describe
differing types of lot lines (see
Figure 77, Lot Lines).
      (1)   Front lot line. The lot line that fronts or that is parallel and
proximate to the street from which the lot’s street address is derived. A front
lot line does not have to border a street right-of-way line.
      (2)   Rear lot line. The lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line.
      (3)   Side lot line. The lot line connecting the front and rear lot lines
regardless of whether it abuts a right-of-way or another lot line. Side lot
lines abut other lots, easements, public trust lands or rights-of-way other
than a street right-of way.
      (4)   Street lot line. A lot line that borders a platted street right-of-
way, whether or not the street is actually constructed or open to vehicles or
pedestrians.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1871.png]
Figure 77 - Lot Lines
   (C)   Lot types.
      (1)   Corner lot. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two street lines or a single street which make(s) an angle of
more than 45 degrees and less than 135 degrees. The front of the lot is the lot
line adjacent to the street from which the lot obtains its street address (see
Figure 78, Lot Types).
      (2)   Flag lot. A lot having shape and configuration so that it connects
to street frontage by an extension and/or arm of the main portion of the lot.
      (3)   Interior lot. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (4)   Lot of record. A lot that is a part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded with
the County Register of Deeds.
      (5)   Through lot (double frontage lot). A lot which fronts upon two
parallel streets and/or which fronts upon two streets which do not intersect at
the boundaries of the lot.
      (6)   Lots serving condominium use types. Individual condominium uses,
whether residential or nonresidential, are exempted from minimum lot area
requirements in this ordinance, but shall be located on a larger site or parent
tract that meets the standards for the zoning district where located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1873.png]
 
Figure 78 - Lot Types 
§ 1023 DENSITY.
   Residential density is the maximum allowable number of residential dwelling
units permitted on a particular site, tract, lot or other unit of land area,
typically expressed as a maximum number of residential units per acre.
   (A)   Calculation.
      (1)   Maximum residential density is calculated by dividing the square
footage of a lot by the number of square feet in an acre (43,560), then
multiplying the maximum number dwelling units allowed in the zoning district,
and rounding the product downwards to remove any fractions.
 
Example:
Lot size: 52,000 square feet/43,560 = 1.19 acres.
Zoning district maximum density is 1.08 units per acre: 1.19 x 1.08 = 1.28.
Maximum number of residential units = 1.0 (fractions are rounded downwards).
 
      (2)   Riparian buffers shall be included in the calculation of the square
footage of a tract or site for the purposes of determining the maximum
residential density.
      (3)   Land area associated with floodplains shall not be included in the
calculation of the square footage of a tract or site for the purposes of
determining the maximum residential density.
      (4)   Land area located within a right-of-way shall not be included in
the calculation of allowable density.
   (B)   Density equivalence.
      (1)   Accessory dwelling units associated with a single-family
residential principal use shall be counted towards the maximum allowable
residential density.
      (2)   When calculating the density for a private dormitory associated
with an educational use, two bedrooms in a private dormitory shall be
equivalent to one regular dwelling unit.
      (3)   Maximum density amounts do not apply to student housing or lodging
on college or university campuses when the housing is owned or operated by the
college or university. In these instances, residential land uses are considered
as an accessory to the college or university principal use.
§ 1024 SETBACKS.
   A setback is the horizontal distance from a lot line or street right-of-way
line to the nearest part of the applicable building, structure, sign or
activity, measured perpendicularly to the line (see
Figure 79, Setbacks).
   (A)   Perimeter setback. Setbacks applied to multiple building developments
or multiple lot developments that apply only to the outermost buildings along
the perimeter of a development. A perimeter setback does not apply along
streets where the minimum or maximum required street setback shall prevail.
   (B)   Rear setback. A setback from an interior lot line lying on the
opposite side of the lot from the street setback.
   (C)   Side setback. Any interior property line setback other than a rear
setback.
   (D)   Street setback.
      (1)   A street setback measured from the right-of-way edge associated
with a public street or existing private street.
      (2)   The street setback is a minimum setback, and nothing shall prohibit
a building from being located farther from the street right-of-way, except
where a maximum street setback is specifically identified by this ordinance or
a condition of approval.
      (3)   In cases where the street right-of-way edge is not readily
identifiable, the location of the right-of-way edge shall be determined by
measuring outwards from the street centerline one-half of the total right-of-
way width. The right-of-way edge location shall be certified by a professional
engineer or land surveyor licensed by the state.
      (4)   Lots shall provide a street setback from all lot lines abutting a
street. The town may require a deeper setback from lot lines abutting a street
in cases when the ultimate street right-of-way width has not yet been acquired.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1875.png]
Figure 79 - Setbacks
§ 1025 LOT COVERAGE.
   Lot coverage is the percentage of a lot or development site that is covered
by buildings or roof structures, excluding allowed projecting eaves and
balconies.
§ 1026 HEIGHT.
   (A)   Measurement. Building height shall be measured from the finished or
established grade elevation following any land-disturbing activities (see
Figure 80, Height).
   (B)   Maximum height. Building height is the vertical distance from a point
established as the mean elevation of the finished grade along the front facade
of a building to any of the following points:
      (1)   The highest point of a flat roof (excluding coping or parapet walls
shorter than five feet above the roof deck);
      (2)   The deck line of a mansard roof;
      (3)   The mid-point of the roof between the ridge and the eaves for a
gable, hip or gambrel roof; or
      (4)   To the highest point of a dome, shed or cricket-style roof.
   (C)   Story. A building story is the portion of a building where all rooms
share the same floor and ceiling level.
      (1)   A crawlspace or basement with an average ceiling height of less
than seven feet is not considered as a story.
      (2)   An attic with an average ceiling height of less than six feet is
not considered a story.
   (D)   Exceptions. The following features are exempted from the maximum
height requirements in this ordinance:
      (1)   Parapet walls of less than five feet in height above the roof deck;
      (2)   Spires, steeples, minarets, belfries, cupolas, domes and similar
architectural features not intended for human habitation;
      (3)   Water tanks, vent housings, elevator housings and equipment covers
associated with a building;
      (4)   Chimneys, vent pipes, skylights or mechanical equipment; and
      (5)   Bulkheads or a single-story penthouse occupying 25% or less of the
total roof area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1877.png]
 
Figure 79(80) - Height
§ 1027 SLOPE AND ELEV ATION.
   (A)    Slope. The degree of deviati on of the ground surface from a flat,
horizo ntal elevation, usually expressed in percent or degrees of deviati on
from horizo ntal.
   (B)    Base flood elevation (BFE).
      (1)    A determination of the water surface elevations of the base flood
as published in the flood insurance study.
      (2)   When the BFE has not been provided for land within the special
flood hazard area, it may be obtained from engineering studies available from a
federal, state or other source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies.
This elevation establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Finished grade. The established grade following grading, excavation or
other land-disturbing activity.
   (D)   Natural grade. The level of the ground elevation prior to the
commencement of development or land-disturbing activity.
§ 1028 PARKING SPACE COMPUTATION.
   (A)   Rounding. When computation of the number of required parking spaces
results in a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded downwards to the previous
whole number.
   (B)   Multiple and mixed uses. Unless otherwise approved, development
containing more than one principal use shall provide off-street parking in an
amount equal to the total requirements of all individual uses, unless the Town
Planner determines that a lower standard would be adequate because of
differences in peak operating hours.
   (C)   Seat based standards. Where the minimum number of off-street parking
spaces is based on the number of seats, all computations shall be based on the
number of seats provided, including outdoor and waiting areas.
   (D)   Employee based standards. When the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces is based on the number of employees, the computations shall be
based on the number of employees on the largest shift.
   (E)   Floor-area based standards. Where the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces is based on square feet of floor area, all computations shall be
based on gross floor area. For the purposes of this section, gross floor area
shall also include outdoor use area.
§ 1029 SIGNAGE MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Sign area determination.
      (1)   The surface area of a sign is computed as including the entire area
within a parallelogram, triangle, circle, semi-circle or other regular
geometric figure, including all of the elements of the display, including
incidental or changeable copy signage, frames, display of identification, or
licensing officially required by any governmental body, and structural elements
(see
Figure 81, Sign Measurement).
      (2)   The supporting structure for a projecting sign shall not be
included within the calculation of the surface area of a sign unless otherwise
indicated in this ordinance.
      (3)   In the case of signs mounted back-to-back, only one side of the
sign is to be included in the calculation of sign face area. Otherwise, the
surface area of each sign is to be separately computed.
      (4)   When two identical sign faces are placed back-to-back so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign
faces are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches
apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
      (5)   For multi-faced signs, the sign area shall be computed by including
all sign faces visible from any one point.
      (6)   In the case of cylindrical signs, signs in the shape of cubes or
other signs which are substantially three-dimensional with respect to their
display surfaces, the entire display surface or surfaces are included in
computations of area.
      (7)   Embellishments such as display portions of signs extending outside
the general display area, incidental signage, changeable copy or supplemental
signage affixed to or included on a sign or sign support structure shall be
computed as part of the total surface area of the sign, unless otherwise
indicated in this ordinance.
      (8)   If a sign is attached to an entrance wall or fence, only that
portion of that wall or fence on which the sign face or letters are placed
shall be calculated in the sign area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1879.png]
 
Figure 81 - Sign Measurement
   (B)   Sign height determination.
      (1)   Sign height shall be computed as the distance from the base of the
sign at the finished grade or from the nearest adjacent street grade to which
the sign is oriented and on which the lot has frontage, whichever is higher, to
the top of the highest component of the sign.
      (2)   Finished grade shall be the grade after construction, exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating
the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1881.png]
Figure 82 - Sign Height
   (C)    Wall area (for the purp oses of sign area measurement). For the
purposes of determining allowable sign area, a wall is the vertical exterior
surface of a building, the area of which shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   The area of all parallel vertical surfaces along a single building
elevation regardless of offsets shall be counted as one wall.
      (2)   The front of each unit of a multiple tenant commercial building
shall be counted as a separate wall.
      (3)   The area of an angled wall surface shall be counted as part of
whichever adjoining wall surface it is most parallel with.
      (4)   A 45-degree angled wall may be counted as part of the area of
either adjoining wall, but not as a part of both.
§ 1029.1 LANDSCAPING SIZE COMPUTATION.
   (A)   Determining tree size at time of planting.
      (1)   Trees under four inches in caliper. Minimum size at time of
planting shall be determined by taking a measurement of the girth or
circumference of the tree trunk, in inches, at a height of six inches above the
bole, or the location where tree trunk meets the soil it is planted in (see
Figure 83, Landscaping Calculation).
      (2)   Trees over four but less than 12 inches in caliper. Minimum size at
time of planting shall be determined by taking a measurement of the girth or
circumference of the tree trunk, in inches, at a height of 12 inches above the
bole, or the location where tree trunk meets the soil it is planted in.
   (B)   Determining tree size of existing trees. Existing tree size shall be
determined by taking a measurement of the girth or circumference of the tree
trunk, in inches, at a height of four-and-one-half feet above the bole, or the
location where tree trunk meets the soil it is planted in. In the case of a
multi-stemmed tree, the cumulative DBH shall be the square root of the sum of
all the individual stem diameters squared. As an alternative, the tree’s basal
area is the sum of the diameters of all tree stems.
   (C)   Rounding. When computation of the amount of landscaping material to be
provided results in a fraction, the minimum number of shrubs or trees to be
provided shall be rounded upwards to the next highest whole number.
   (D)   Calculation of required landscaping yard or area distances. In cases
where a driveway, sidewalk or trail intersects a required landscaping area or
yard, the width of these features shall be subtracted from the yard or area
distance. In cases where an easement that prohibits the placement of
landscaping material intersects a required landscaping yard or area, the width
of the easement shall not be subtracted from the required yard or area
distance. Required plant material shall be located outside the easement but
within the required landscaping area or yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1883.png]
Figure 83 - Landscaping Calculation
§ 1029.2 FENCE AND WALL HEIGHT.
   (A)   Measurement location. In cases where a fence or wall is located within
a required setback or required yard, fence height shall be determined along the
grade of the adjacent lot or street. In cases where a fence or wall is located
outside a required setback or yard, the height shall be determined based on the
finished grade. In cases where a fence or wall is placed on a berm, the maximum
fence or wall height shall include the height of the berm, as measured from the
toe of the slope. Fence height shall be measured at the highest point above
grade (not including columns or fence posts) on the portion of the fence
nearest an abutting or adjacent lot or street right-of-way.
   (B)   Column and post height. Columns or posts shall not exceed a height 18
inches above the built height of the fence.
   (C)   Railings not included. Safety railings required by the State Building
Code shall not be included in wall height measurements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1885.png]
 
Figure 84 - Fence and Wall Height
§ 1029.3 EXTERIOR LIGHTING MEASUREMENT.
   (A)    Measured at the lot line. Light level measurements shall be made at
the lot line of the land upon which light to be measured is being generated. If
measurement on private property is not possible or practical, light level
measurements may be made at the boundary of the public street right-of-way that
adjoins the land.
   (B)   Measured at finished grade. Measurements shall be made at finished
grade (ground level), with the light-registering portion of the meter held
parallel to the ground pointing up. The meter shall have cosine and color
correction and have an accuracy tolerance of no greater than plus or minus 5%.
   (C)   Measurement device. Measurements shall be taken with a light meter
that has been calibrated within the year the measurement was taken.
DIVISION 3. DEFINITIONS
§ 1030 DEFINED TERMS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions in
Table 22, Defined Terms, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
Table 22 - Defined Terms
Term Definition(s)
Table 22 - Defined Terms
Term               Definition(s)
A
ABANDONMENT        The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use of the property for a continuous
                   period.
                   The condition of two parcels of land having a common property line or boundary, including
ABUTTING           cases where two or more parcels of land adjoin at a corner, but not including cases where
                   parcels of land are separated by a street, water body or right-of-way.
ACCENT             The use of an alternate material or color to a detail that is emphasized by contrasting
                   with its surroundings.
ACCESS EASEMENT    An easement which grants the right to cross land.
ACCESSIBLE PARKING An off-street parking space provided for the exclusive use of vehicles serving disabled
SPACE              persons.
ACCESSORY BUILDING See ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
ACCESSORY DWELLING A secondary dwelling unit established in conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a
UNIT               principal dwelling unit, whether part of the same structure as the principal dwelling
                   unit, or as a detached structure on the same lot.
ACCESSORY          A detached subordinate or incidental structure, the use of which is incidental to the
STRUCTURE          principal structure and which is located on the same lot as the principal structure.
ACCESSORY USE      A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use and located on the same
                   lot with the principal use.
ACCESSWAY          A paved or unpaved travel way intended to serve vehicles for the purposes of obtaining
                   ingress, egress or circulation around a lot or site.
                   Land set aside for the residents or a development and under common ownership that is
ACTIVE OPEN SPACE  configured for active forms of recreation. ACTIVE OPEN SPACE typically includes
SET-ASIDE          playgrounds, athletic fields and courts and similar features devoted to movement,
                   activity or sports pursuits.
ACTIVE RECREATION  Uses or structures intended for specific active recreational uses such as playgrounds,
USES               ball fields, tennis courts and other similar uses typically located in open space set-
                   aside areas or parks.
ADDITION or        An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or structure.
EXPANSION
                   A parcel of land or development that shares all or part of a common lot line or boundary
ADJACENT           with another parcel of land, or a parcel of land that would abut another parcel of land,
                   but for the fact a street, waterbody or right-of-way divides the parcels.
ADJOINING          When one property adjoins another, shares a common property line or is immediately
                   adjacent to or abutting it.
                   Decisions made in the implementation, administration or enforcement of this UDO or other
ADMINISTRATIVE     development regulations that involve the determination of facts and the application of
DECISION           objective standards set forth in this UDO. They are also sometimes referred to as
                   ministerial decisions or administrative determinations.
ADMINISTRATIVE     A proceeding to gather facts needed to make an administrative decision.
HEARING
ADOPTED POLICY     The combined future land use policy guidance provided by the adopted comprehensive plan,
GUIDANCE           area or corridor plans prepared for specific parts of the town, and system plans related
                   to the town’s infrastructure systems.
                   An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or more motion picture
                   projectors, slide projectors or similar machines for viewing by five or fewer persons
ADULT ARCADE       each are used to show films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
                   photographic reproductions that are characterized by all emphasis upon the depiction or
                   description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
                   An establishment that has as a substantial portion, over 25% of total retail space, of
                   its stock-in-trade and offers for rent or sale, for any consideration, any one or more of
                   the following:
                   (1) Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion
ADULT BOOKSTORE    pictures, videocassettes, slides or other visual representations that are characterized
                   by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
                   specified anatomical areas; or
                   (2) Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in connection with
                   specified sexual activities.
                   Any business activity, club or other establishment which permits its employees, members,
ADULT BUSINESS     patrons or guests on its premises to exhibit any specified anatomical areas before any
                   other person or persons.
                   A home with support and supervisory personnel licensed with the state that provides room
ADULT CARE HOME    and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family environment for not more
                   than six resident adult persons with disabilities. PERSON WITH DISABILITY shall have the
                   same meaning as found in G.S. § 168A-3(7).
                   A use of land and buildings licensed by the state that provides care to seven or more
ADULT DAYCARE      aging, disabled or handicapped adults away from their homes, and by persons other than
FACILITY           family members, guardians or custodians. The term ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY shall not be
                   construed to include a group care facility.
ADULT              Any business by its nature or use that is intended to serve patrons of age 18 years or
ESTABLISHMENT      older which may or may not be limited to those businesses regulated under §
                   511, Use Types.
                   An establishment where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures,
ADULT MOTION       videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and in which a
PICTURE THEATER    substantial portion (25%) of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
                   material characterized by all emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
                   sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER      A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar establishment characterized by activities
                   featuring the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
                   Land consisting of ten acres or more that are in actual production and having gross
                   income from the sale of agricultural products produced thereon (together with payments
AGRICULTURAL LAND  received under a soil conservation or land retirement program) averaging $1,000 per year
                   for the immediately preceding three years. Reference the Farmland Taxation Act, G.S. §
                   105-277.3.
                   The cultivation and production of orchard, garden or nursery crops on a small or large
AGRICULTURE or     scale, the production of field grown crops, specialty crops, flowers, fruit, market
HORTICULTURE       gardening, nuts, ornamental plants, sod, vegetables and similar horticultural uses. Uses
                   also include agronomy, aquaculture, fisheries, apiculture, silviculture, plant nurseries
                   and similar uses.
                   Commercial establishments engaged in the sales, repair, rental and storage of tools,
AGRICULTURE        equipment, supplies and machinery in support of farms, farming, agriculture or
SUPPORT SERVICES   horticulture. Uses also include sales of products grown on a farm, provision of farm-
                   related experiences (e.g., immersion farming or pick-your-own establishments), wineries
                   and agri-tourism.
                   The act of visiting a working farm or any agricultural, horticultural or agri-business
AGRI-TOURISM       operation for the purpose of enjoyment, education or active involvement in the activities
                   of the farm or operation.
ALTERNATIVE        A document prepared by an applicant that proposes an alternative means of compliance with
LANDSCAPE PLAN     the standards in §
                   650, Landscaping.
ALTERNATIVE        A document prepared by an applicant that proposes an alternative means of compliance with
PARKING PLAN       the standards in §
                   670, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
                   Equipment, including antennas, transmitters and antenna support structures used by a non-
AMATEUR HAM RADIO  professional person in the transmittal of messages and information within the radio
                   frequency portion of the electro-magnetic spectrum.
                   A commercial establishment providing socialization, training or housing, in the absence
ANIMAL BOARDING OR of the owner, for less than 24 hours for pets owned by the general public for which a fee
GROOMING           is charged. Such uses may also include bathing, clipping or services for domestic animals
                   for which a fee is charged.
ANTENNA            Communications equipment that transmits and/or receives electromagnetic radio signals
                   used in the provision of all types of wireless telecommunications services.
                   Uses involving the placement of antennas on a building’s roof or wall, placement of
ANTENNA            antennas on a vertical projection not constructed for communications purposes or
COLLOCATION, MAJOR placement of antennas on a communications structure that requires substantial
                   modifications, as defined in G.S. § 160D-931.
ANTENNA            Uses involving the placement of antennas on a vertical projection (including a structure
COLLOCATION, MINOR built for communications) that does not require substantial modifications and meets the
                   definition of an eligible facility in G.S. § 160D-931.
ANTENNA SUPPORT    The frame, bracket or other mechanical device, including mounting hardware such as bolts,
STRUCTURE          screws or other fasteners used to affix an antenna to a telecommunications tower,
                   building, utility pole or other vertical projection.
APPEAL             A request for a review of a determination, decision or the application of any provision
                   of this ordinance.
APPLICANT          Any person who submits to the town a request or plans for the purpose of obtaining
                   approval thereof under this ordinance.
                   The completed form or forms and all accompanying documents, exhibits and fees required of
APPLICATION        an applicant by the appropriate town department or review authority as part of the
                   development review processes.
ARBOR              A structure with an open roof system providing partial shading and which may also have
                   non-opaque fencing on the outside perimeter.
ARCADE             A series of arches supported by piers or columns. It is typical for an arcade to have
                   habitable floor space directly above it.
ARCH or ARCHWAY    A curved, semicircular opening in a wall.
ARTERIAL STREET    A street designated as an arterial street in the town’s adopted policy guidance, the
                   applicable comprehensive transportation plan or by the NCDOT.
ARTICULATION       The presence or projections, recesses or other architectural features along a building
                   facade.
                   An industrial establishment engaged in the production of asphalt, macadam, blacktop,
ASPHALT OR         concrete or mortar for use in the construction and repair of buildings, roadways and
CONCRETE PLANT     vehicular use areas. The use involves the stockpiling of sand, binder and filler, as well
                   as a heater to mix the ingredients, and trucks to deliver products to the site of
                   installation.
                   A residential facility with support and supervisory personnel for the elderly or infirm
ASSISTED LIVING    that provides rooms, meals, personal care and supervision of self-administered
FACILITY           medication. They may provide other services such as recreational and social activities,
                   financial services, transportation, laundry and other services appropriate for the
                   residents and designed to provide a relatively independent lifestyle.
AUTHORIZED AGENT   A person with express written consent to act upon another’s behalf.
                   An automated mechanized consumer banking device operated by a financial institution for
AUTOMATED TELLER   the convenience of its customers, whether inside or outside of a financial institution,
MACHINE            or located in a structure unrelated to the financial institution operating it. Such uses
                   may not serve as the principal use of a parcel of land or site.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR
AND SERVICING      General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles or trailers, not
(WITHOUT PAINTING/ including bodywork, framework, welding and major painting service.
BODYWORK)
AUTOMOTIVE         Repair of automobiles, vehicles or trailers, including bodywork, framework, welding and
PAINTING/BODY SHOP major painting service.
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS   The on-site sale and subsequent installation of various automobile parts and accessories,
AND ACCESSORY      including, but not limited to, bed liners, toolboxes, truck tops or audio systems. Such
SALES              uses do not include the sale of gasoline or other fuels.
AUTOMOTIVE SALES   Premises on which new or used passenger automobiles, trailers, recreational vehicles or
OR RENTALS         light trucks in operating condition are displayed for sale, lease or rental.
AUTOMOTIVE TOWING  An establishment operated for the purpose of temporary storage on-site of operable or
AND STORAGE LOT    inoperable vehicles. If an establishment stacks vehicles or portions of stored vehicles
                   are dismantled or removed for sale, it shall be considered a salvage and junk yard.
AWNING             A plastic, canvas or metal porch or shade supported by a frame and often foldable that is
                   placed over a storefront, doorway or window.
B
                   A platform on the outside of a building that is accessible from an upper-story door or
BALCONY            window and bounded by a building wall on at least one side, with its open sides
                   surrounded by a railing.
                   An establishment having as its principal or predominant use the serving of beer, wine or
BAR, COCKTAIL      liquor for consumption on the premises, and which sets a minimum age requirement for
LOUNGE or PRIVATE  entrance consistent with state law. The primary source of revenue for such use is derived
CLUB               from alcohol sales, and the secondary source from the serving of food. Such uses may also
                   provide on-site entertainment in the form of live performances, dancing, billiards or
                   other entertainment activities.
BASEMENT           Any area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all sides.
BAY WINDOW         A window, typically with two or more sides, that is built to project outward from an
                   outside wall.
                   A private residence, generally a single-family residence, engaged in renting one or more
BED AND BREAKFAST  dwelling rooms on a daily basis to tourists, vacationers and business people, where
                   provision of meals is limited to breakfast for guests only.
BELTCOURSE or BELT A horizontal band forming part of an interior or exterior architectural composition (as
COURSE             around pillars or engaged columns). BELT COURSES are often made of brick or stone.
BERM               An elongated earthen mound typically designed or constructed on a site to separate,
                   screen or buffer adjacent uses or site features.
BICYCLE PARKING    Land and facilities used for the parking of bicycles, including a mechanism for securing
SPACE              a parked bicycle.
BLOCK              The land lying within an area bounded on all sides by streets.
BLOCK FACE         The lands abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two nearest intersecting
                   or intercepting streets, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses or un-subdivided land.
BOARD OF           The quasi-judicial body composed of appointed representatives from the town which are
ADJUSTMENT         given certain powers under and relative to ordinances of the town. Also known as the
                   Zoning Board of Adjustment.
                   Any tract or tracts of land used for farm purposes as defined in G.S. § 1600-930,
                   including the production and activities relating or incidental to the production of
                   crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants, dairy, livestock, poultry and
                   all other forms of agriculture as defined in G.S. § 106-581.1. In addition, the
                   production of a non-farm product that the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services
                   recognizes as a “Goodness Grows in North Carolina” product that is produced on a farm
                   subject to a conservation agreement under G.S. § 106-743.2 is a bona fide farm purpose.
BONA FIDE FARM     Any of the following shall constitute sufficient evidence that the property is being used
                   for BONA FIDE FARM purposes:
                   1. A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the Department of Revenue;
                   2. A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is eligible for
                   participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S. § 105-277.3;
                   3. A copy of the farm owner’s or operator’s Schedule F from the owner’s or operator’s
                   most recent federal income tax return; and
                   4. A forest management plan.
                   A commercial establishment engaged in the retail sale of beer, wine or liquor in sealed
                   containers offered for sale to an individual solely as a sealed container such as a
BOTTLE SHOP        bottle or can. Beverages may be sold for off-site or on-site consumption only in
                   accordance with all applicable state laws and permits. Incidental sale of food or
                   associated merchandise may also take place.
BROADCASTING       A tower or similar structure devoted to the transmission of television or radio signals.
TOWER, RADIO OR    Such uses may also include buildings, studios and related appurtenances.
TELEVISION
                   An area of natural or planted vegetation adjoining or surrounding a use, and unoccupied
BUFFER             in its entirety by any building, structure, paving or portion of such use, for the
                   purposes of screening and softening the effects of the use.
                   Vegetative material and structures (i.e., walls, fences) that are used to separate uses
BUFFER, PERIMETER  from each other as required by this ordinance, including the Type A Separation, Type B
                   Intermittent, Type C Semi-Opaque and Type D, Opaque.
BUFFER,            See STREETSCAPE BUFFER.
STREETSCAPE
                   A lot of record created under the requirements of this ordinance, or under the standards
                   of previous requirements, containing sufficient area, exclusive of easements, flood
BUILDABLE LOT      hazards, water bodies, well and wastewater disposal tank fields; sufficient total
                   dimensions; sufficient means wastewater disposal system; and sufficient access to permit
                   construction thereon of a principal building together with its required parking and
                   buffer yards.
                   Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy. This
BUILDING           term does not include camping trailers, motorized homes, pickup campers, travel trailers
                   or self-contained travel trailers.
BUILDING,          See ACCESSORY BUILDING.
ACCESSORY
                   An imaginary line between two points on a building that describes or explains how the
BUILDING AXIS      building is organized. For example, the ridgeline of a roof gable depicts a BUILDING’S
                   AXIS.
                   The entire exterior wall of a building facing a lot line measured from the grade to the
BUILDING FACADE    eave or highest point of a flat or mansard roof. FACADES may be on the front, side or
                   rear elevation of the building.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT The area occupied by the perimeter of a principal building. Accessory structures and non-
                   building facilities are not included in the BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
BUILDING,          A building or, a group of buildings, in which the principal use of the lot is conducted.
PRINCIPAL
BUILDING           An extension of a building wall or building facade projecting outwards from the primary
PROJECTION         building facade plane typically used to provide visual interest, contain an entrance or
                   conceal or screen a service element of site feature like a refuse collection container.
                   An inset or indentation of a building wall or building facade from the primary building
BUILDING RECESS    facade plane typically used to accommodate windows, walk-up service features, doorways or
                   passthroughs.
BUILDING WALL      An extension of a building wall or building facade projecting outwards from the primary
PROJECTION         building facade plane typically used to conceal or screen a service element of site
                   feature like a refuse collection container.
                   A portion of a building that is subordinate to the main or central part of the structure.
BUILDING WING      BUILDING WINGS may share a wall with the main or central part of the building or be
                   joined to it by another ancillary structure like a hallway or a colonnade.
                   A retail establishment engaged in the retail sale of large or bulky items that are not
                   commonly constructed or maintained indoors, such as truck camper tops, bed liners,
BULKY ITEMS SALES  prefabricated outdoor buildings, manufactured homes, modular homes, play equipment,
                   portable storage containers or hot tubs. Such uses may include on-site assembly or
                   fabrication of such items for sale.
BUMP OUT           See BUILDING PROJECTION.
                   A commercial establishment that provides support and encouragement to new business
                   startups and ventures in the form of affordable floor area to rent, shared office space,
BUSINESS INCUBATOR shared marketing resources and may also provide management training services and access
                   to financing. BUSINESS INCUBATORS contain a wide array of use types, including retail,
                   office, personal service and light manufacturing uses.
C
                   Measurement for determining the size of trees at time of planting. CALIPER is the
CALIPER            quantity in inches of the diameter of trees measured at six inches or 12 inches above the
                   ground, based on the size of the tree being measured.
CAMPER             A portable dwelling (as a special equipped trailer or automobile vehicle) for use during
                   travel and camping.
                   A permanent structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal or other material
CANOPY             attached or unattached to a building for the purpose of providing shelter to patrons or
                   automobiles, or as a decorative feature. A CANOPY is not a completely enclosed structure.
CANOPY TREE        A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 40 feet or more with a
                   minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
                   An establishment providing the exterior washing of vehicles where vehicles are manually
CAR WASH OR AUTO   driven or pulled by a conveyor through a system of rollers and/or brushes. Interior
DETAILING          cleaning and/or drying may be conducted manually by vehicle operator or on-site
                   attendants. Incidental sales of automobile-related accessories may take place.
CASUALTY DAMAGE    The damage to or loss of a nonconforming structure or use that is sudden, unexpected and
                   unusual. Typically associated with fire, severe weather or Act of God.
                   A commercial establishment that prepares, delivers and may or may not serve food and/or
CATERING           beverages to clients in a pre-arranged on-site or off-site location at a pre-arranged
ESTABLISHMENT      time. Catering operations associated with a restaurant are considered eating
                   establishments, and catering associated with a hotel, motel or conference venue is
                   considered an accessory use.
CEMETERY,          Uses intended for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes. This use
COLUMBARIUM,       type may include a funeral home or mortuary or a mausoleum or columbarium (a structure or
MAUSOLEUM          vault lined with recesses for cinerary urns), but does not include a crematory.
CENTRAL LEADER     The dominant upright branch (or trunk) of a tree.
                   A document issued by the county building inspector certifying compliance with all
CERTIFICATE OF     applicable state and local construction codes, including all terms of an approved zoning
OCCUPANCY          compliance permit or special use permit, and authorizing occupancy of a building or
                   structure.
CERTIORARI         A situation where an appellant may file an appeal of a decision directly to a higher
                   court of law.
CHANGE OF USE      The change in the use of a building, structure or land. CHANGE OF USE includes a change
                   from one use type to another use type.
CHANGEABLE COPY    Text or other depictions on the face of a sign that are capable of being revised on a
                   regular or infrequent basis.
                   A program or arrangement, licensed by the state and located in the provider’s residence
                   where, at any one time, three or more children under the age of 13, receive childcare on
                   a regular basis of at least once per week for at least four (but less than 24) hours per
CHILDCARE,         day from persons other than their guardians, full-time custodians or persons related to
INCIDENTAL         them by blood, marriage or adoption. This definition does not include child daycare
                   centers, cooperative arrangements among parents or other activities not defined as
                   childcare by G.S. § 110-86. Provision of daycare services for more than six children in a
                   residential dwelling is subject to the standards for a childcare facility.
                   Any establishment that provides regular care, activity and supervision, with or without
                   academic instruction, for five or more children under the age of 16 years and operates
                   more than four hours per day but not more than 18 hours per day. A commercial or non-
                   profit childcare center establishment is not operated as a small or large daycare home.
CHILD DAYCARE      The term CHILDCARE CENTER includes infant centers, preschools and extended daycare
FACILITY           facilities. These may be operated in conjunction with a business, school or religious
                   facility, or as an independent land use. A CHILDCARE CENTER must meet applicable
                   requirements of the State Building Code and must have a fence of at least four feet in
                   height surrounding any play area provided for the children. The operation of the center
                   shall comply with all federal, state and local codes.
                   A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies, rituals and education are held,
CHURCH             together with its accessory buildings and uses (including buildings used for educational
                   and recreational activities) operated, maintained and controlled under the direction of a
                   religious group. Also includes temples and mosques.
CIVIC, FRATERNAL   A building and related facilities owned and operated by a corporation, association or
AND SOCIAL         group of individuals established for fraternal, social, educational, recreational or
ORGANIZATIONS      cultural enrichment of its members and primarily not for profit, and whose members meet
                   certain prescribed qualifications for membership and pay dues.
CLINIC             An establishment used for the care, diagnosis, therapy or counseling of sick, ailing,
                   infirmed or injured persons or nonmedical therapy and counseling on an out-patient basis.
                   The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land resources and provide for innovation
CLUSTER            in the design of the project, including minimizing stormwater runoff impacts. The term
DEVELOPMENT        CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT includes nonresidential development as well as single-family
                   residential and multi-family developments.
CLUSTER MAILBOX    A centralized grouping of individually locked and keyed mailboxes meeting the
UNIT               specifications of the United States Postal Service.
                   A commercial establishment engaged in the retail sale of coffee, tea, breads and
                   confectionaries for on-site and off-site consumption. Such uses may also offer a limited
                   range of food available for on-site or off-site consumption as well as merchandise
COFFEE SHOP/BAKERY associated with home consumption. A COFFEE SHOP or BAKERY may also include, as an
                   accessory use, equipment and facilities to prepare coffee beans or baking raw materials
                   for consumption. Uses engaged solely in material processing for off-site consumption are
                   manufacturing uses. Uses that derive the majority of their income from sales of food are
                   restaurant uses.
COLLECTOR STREET   A street designated as a collector street in the town’s adopted policy guidance, the
                   applicable comprehensive transportation plan or by the NCDOT.
                   A public or private, non-profit institution for post-secondary education offering courses
                   in general or technical education which operates within buildings or premises on land
                   owned or leased by the institution for administrative and faculty offices, classrooms,
COLLEGE or         laboratories, chapels, auditoriums, lecture halls, libraries, student and faculty
UNIVERSITY         centers, athletic facilities, dormitories, fraternities and sororities and other
                   facilities which further the educational mission of the institution. In no event shall
                   this definition prohibit a college or university from engaging in an activity
                   historically conducted by such institutions.
                   The placement, installation, modification, operation or replacement of antenna and
COLLOCATION        related wireless telecommunications equipment on, under or within an existing or
                   replacement telecommunications tower, utility pole, building or other vertical
                   projection.
                   The placement, installation, modification or replacement of antenna and related wireless
                   telecommunications equipment on a building’s roof, on a building’s wall, on a vertical
COLLOCATION, MAJOR projection not constructed for the provision of wireless telecommunications services, or
                   on a telecommunications tower where the collocation requires “substantial modifications”
                   to the telecommunications tower, as defined in this ordinance and G.S. § 160D-931.
                   The placement, installation, modification or replacement of antenna and related wireless
COLLOCATION, MINOR telecommunications equipment on a telecommunications tower that does not require
                   “substantial modifications” and that meets the definition of an “eligible facility
                   request” as defined in this ordinance and G.S. § 160D-931.
COLUMN             An upright pillar, typically cylindrical and made of stone or concrete, supporting an
                   entablature, arch or other structure or standing alone as a monument.
                   Legal doctrine that recognizes where property owners have reasonably made a substantial
COMMON LAW VESTED  expenditure of money, time, labor or energy in a good faith reliance on a permit from the
RIGHT              government, that they acquire VESTED RIGHTS or a protected right to complete the
                   development of their land as originally begun despite any changes in the zoning on the
                   property.
                   Undeveloped land within a conservation subdivision that has been designated, dedicated,
                   reserved or restricted in perpetuity from further development and is set aside for the
COMMON OPEN SPACE  use and enjoyment by residents of the subdivision. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall not be a part
                   of individual residential lots. It shall be substantially free of structures but may
                   contain historic structures and archaeological sites, and/or recreational facilities for
                   residents or drainage fields as indicated on the approved development plan
COMMUNITY CENTER   A public building to be used as a place of meeting, recreation or social activity and not
                   operated for profit.
COMMUNITY          The sum or combined effect of the attributes and assets that make the town unique and
CHARACTER          that establish the town’s “sense of place.” Attributes include the resident population,
                   local institutions, visual characteristics, natural features and shared history.
                   The comprehensive plan for the town, as adopted and amended by the Town Board of
                   Commissioners. A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN sets forth goals, policies and programs intended to
                   guide the present and future physical, social and economic development of the
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN jurisdiction. A land use plan uses text and maps to designate the future use or reuse of
                   land. A COMPREHENSIVE or LAND USE PLAN is intended to guide coordinated, efficient and
                   orderly development within the planning and development regulation jurisdiction based on
                   an analysis of present and future needs. See G.S. § 160D-501 and § 3304 of this UDO for
                   the complete statutory definition.
                   A commercial establishment engaged in diagnosis and repair of personal computers and
                   associated peripherals, including printers, network equipment, monitors and related
COMPUTER RELATED   equipment. Such uses may also procure replacement parts and construct computer components
SERVICE            or systems for clients. Limited sale of new or reconstructed computers and computer
                   equipment is an accessory use. Manufacture or assembly of computer systems on an
                   industrial scale or for resale to members of the general public is a light manufacturing
                   use.
                   A plan for development intended solely for illustrative purposes to assist a review
                   authority in its consideration of a proposed development. A CONCEPT PLAN may, but does
CONCEPT PLAN       not necessarily need to include, the detailed elements typically found in a site plan
                   (for example, detailed locations of buildings, location of off-street parking, location
                   of landscaping and the like).
                   A limitation or stipulation on the range of allowable uses, density, intensity,
CONDITION OF       configuration or operational parameters of new development or redevelopment. A condition
APPROVAL           may be proposed by an applicant, a staff member or a review authority that must be
                   accepted by an applicant and the town to become binding.
                   A development containing individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned and shared
CONDOMINIUM        areas and facilities that is subject to the State Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Chapter 47A)
                   and/or the State Condominium Act (G.S. Chapter 47C).
CONE OF            The detectable spread of illumination from a source of exterior lighting.
ILLUMINATION
CONSERVATION       The grant of a property right or interest from the property owner to the town or a non-
EASEMENT           profit conservation organization stipulating that the described land shall remain in its
                   natural, scenic, open or wooded state, precluding future development.
                   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef0bc61b33e26395352718887ab49b08ef30a9b/IMAGES/0-0-0-
FIGURE 85 -        1887.png]
CONSERVATION       A residential development in a rural setting that is characterized by compact lots and
SUBDIVISION        common open space; where the natural features of the land are preserved to the greatest
                   extent possible. Illustrated in the figure above.
                   The erection of any building, structure, on-site improvement or any preparations
CONSTRUCTION       (including land-disturbing activities) for the same, regardless whether the site is
                   presently improved, unimproved or hereafter becomes unimproved by demolition, destruction
                   of the improvements located thereon by fire, windstorm or other casualty.
CONSTRUCTION PLAT  A plan with supporting data for a proposed subdivision, developed for the purpose of
                   establishing the layout and provision of roads and utilities.
CONTAINERIZED      Trees or other vegetation delivered for planting or establishment in individual or group
STOCK              containers.
CONTINUANCE        The adjournment or postponement of review or a decision on an application for development
                   approval to a specified future date.
CONTRACT PURCHASER A person who has entered into a contract with another party to purchase real property,
                   but who has not yet settled on the purchase.
CONTRACTOR         Offices for building, plumbing or electrical contractors and related storage facilities.
SERVICES/YARD
                   A retail establishment which offers for sale, primarily, the following types of articles:
                   bread; milk; cheese; canned and bottled foods and drinks; tobacco products; beer; wine;
CONVENIENCE STORE  candy; papers and magazines; and general hardware articles. Gasoline and/or fast food may
                   also be offered for sale but only as a secondary activity of a CONVENIENCE STORE and
                   subject to the standards of this ordinance. If vehicular maintenance and service are
                   provided, the establishment is not classified as a convenience store.
                   A designation or classification applied to certain lots or tracts as shown on the
                   official zoning map. CONVENTIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS specify the broad range of allowable
CONVENTIONAL       land use types permitted on lots or tracts within the particular district. The
ZONING DISTRICT    conventional zoning district standards also specify the applicable dimensional
                   requirements for lots and buildings as well as any unique provisions that apply to solely
                   lands in the particular district.
COPING             A finishing or protective course of masonry or cap of metal located at the top of a
                   brick, stone or masonry wall.
CORNICE            Any horizontal member, structural or nonstructural, of any building, projecting outward
                   from the exterior walls at the roof line, including eaves and other roof overhang.
COUNTY             Stanly County, North Carolina.
COVENANT           A binding written agreement between two or more private parties regarding the use,
                   occupancy or configuration of development that runs with the land.
                   A land use that serves as a shared workspace for employees of different organizations.
                   CO-WORKING SPACES consist of private, self-contained offices as well as shared or common
CO-WORKING SPACE   office workspaces available for rent by more than one individual. CO-WORKING SPACES may
                   include shared administrative staff, document production, presentation equipment,
                   storage, kitchens or private meeting rooms.
                   A building serving as a repository for a collection of natural, scientific, historical or
CULTURAL FACILITY, literary curiosities or works of art, and arranged, intended and designed to be used by
LIBRARY or MUSEUM  members of the public for viewing, with or without an admission charge, and which may
                   include as an accessory use the limited retail sale of goods, services or products such
                   as prepared food to the public.
CURB               A constructed element used to stabilize paving, gutter, planting areas or sidewalks.
D
                   A program operated in a structure other than a single-family dwelling that provides group
DAYCARE, ADULT     care and supervision on a less than 24-hour basis, and in a place other than their usual
                   place of residence, to adults 18 years or older who may be physically or mentally
                   disabled, and which is certified or approved to operate by the state.
                   A commercial or non-profit use licensed by the state where, at any one time, three or
                   more unrelated children under the age of 13 receive childcare from an unrelated person in
                   a building other than a private residence on a regular basis of at least one occurrence
DAYCARE, CHILD     per week for more than four hours per occurrence. Such uses may also involve the
                   provision of educational services in preparation for elementary school. This definition
                   does not include incidental childcare, cooperative arrangements among parents, or drop-in
                   or short-term childcare provided while parents work part-time or participate in other
                   activities on the premises (e.g., churches, shopping malls, hotels, health spas).
DECK               A structure, without a roof, directly adjacent to a principal building which has an
                   average elevation above finished grade.
DECORATIVE GLASS   Glass located on an exterior wall of a building that may be transparent, semi-transparent
                   or opaque.
DEDICATION         The act of giving, donating or dedicating land or infrastructure improvements to a unit
                   of government for their operation and maintenance.
DENSITY            The average number of families, persons or housing units per acre of land.
DESIGNEE           A person selected or designated to carry out a duty or role.
DETERMINATION      A written, final and binding order, requirement or determination regarding an
                   administrative decision.
                   A person, including a government agency or redevelopment authority, who undertakes any
DEVELOPER          development and who is the landowner of the property to be developed or who has been
                   authorized by the landowner to undertake development on that property.
                   A parcel/lot on which surveying for development is currently taking place or for which an
DEVELOPING LAND    application is currently being reviewed for development by the Town Planner or for which
                   development activities have been approved.
                   Any of the following:
                   (1) The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation, substantial repair,
                   movement to another site or demolition of any structure;
DEVELOPMENT        (2) Excavation, grading, filling, clearing or alteration of land;
                   (3) The subdivision of land, as defined in G.S. § 160D-802; or
                   (4) The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the intensity of the use
                   of land.
DEVELOPMENT ENTRY  A vehicular access point providing ingress or egress to an individual neighborhood or
POINT              development.
DEVELOPMENT        Areas in a conservation subdivision within which grading lawns, pavement and buildings
ENVELOPE           are located.
                   Measurement for determining the size of existing trees to be credited towards landscaping
DIAMETER AT BREAST requirements or for violations of this ordinance. DBH is the measurement of the diameter
HEIGHT (DBH)       of an existing tree trunk taken at a height of four and one-half feet above the ground.
                   Trees with multiple trunks should be treated as multiple trees and the DBH for each trunk
                   added to aggregate diameter measurement.
DORMER WINDOW      A window that projects vertically from a sloping roof.
                   A principal use consisting of one or more rooms devoted that provide housing with a
DORMITORY          number of beds that serve as communal sleeping quarters. Such uses may also provide
                   common bathrooms, recreation areas and storage, but not kitchen facilities.
DOT or NCDOT       The State Department of Transportation.
                   A zoning ordinance that affects an area of land in one of the following ways: by
                   decreasing the development density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under
DOWN ZONING        its previous usage; by reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a
                   zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed under its
                   previous usage.
DRAINAGEWAY        Any stream, watercourse, channel, ditch or similar physiographic feature draining water
                   from the land.
DRIVE AISLE        A vehicular accessway within a surface parking lot or a parking structure.
DRIVE THROUGH      A facility designed to enable a person to transact business while remaining in a motor
                   vehicle.
DRIVE-IN           An establishment that provides employee curb service or accommodations through special
RESTAURANT         equipment or facilities for the ordering of food or beverage from a vehicle.
                   A vehicular way, other than a street or alley, which provides vehicular access from a
DRIVEWAY           street. When provided as part of a parking lot, the portion of the vehicle accommodation
                   area that consists of a travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not a part
                   of the vehicle accommodation.
                   A constructed device, whether raised or lowered from grade level, located within a
DRIVEWAY MEDIAN    driveway or drive aisle that is used to control traffic direction or limit turning
                   movements.
                   A single detached dwelling on one lot that contains two dwelling units. The units may be
DUPLEX DWELLING    located side by side in a horizontal configuration or stacked one above the other in a
                   vertical configuration, sharing common vertical walls or horizontal floors and ceilings.
                   Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part thereof, used and
DWELLING           occupied for human habitation or intended to be used for living and/or sleeping by one or
                   more human occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
                   usually enjoyed therewith.
DWELLING,          See MANUFACTURED DWELLING.
MANUFACTURED
DWELLING, MODULAR  A manufactured building designed to be used as a one-family dwelling which has been
HOME               constructed and labeled indicating compliance with the State Residential Building Code.
DWELLING, MULTI-   See MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.
FAMILY
DWELLING, SINGLE-  See SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING.
FAMILY
DWELLING,          See TOWNHOUSE.
TOWNHOUSE
                   A group of rooms within a dwelling forming a single independent habitable unit used for
DWELLING UNIT      or intended to be used for living, sleeping, sanitation, cooking and eating purposes by
                   one family or small group of unrelated persons only.
E
                   The right to use or occupy the real property of another owner for a specifically
EASEMENT           identified purpose. An easement is a recognized interest in real property, but legal
                   title to the underlying land is retained by the owner granting the easement.
EAVE               The projecting lower edges of a roof that overhang the wall of a building.
                   An off-street parking space that is served by an electrical component assembly or cluster
ELECTRIC VEHICLE   of component assemblies (battery charging station) designed and intended to transfer
CHARGING STATION   electric energy, by conductive or inductive means, from the electric grid or other off-
                   board electrical source to a battery or other energy storage device within an electric
                   vehicle.
ELECTRICAL OR      An industrial establishment operated by a contractor, supplier or distributor engaged in
PLUMBING           the fabrication and assembly of plumbing fixtures, electrical fixtures, H.V.A.C. ducting
FABRICATION        and equipment, fireplaces or similar household or commercial features for off-site
                   installation.
                   A location where a mechanically, electrically or electronically operated gaming machine
                   or device, which is owned, leased or otherwise possessed by a sweepstakes sponsor or
                   promoter, or any of the sweepstakes sponsor’s or promoter’s partners, affiliates,
                   subsidiaries or contractors, which is intended to be used by a sweepstakes entrant, which
                   uses energy, and that is capable of displaying information on a screen or other
                   mechanism. The term ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS is applicable to an electronic gaming
                   machine or device whether or not:
                   (1) It is server-based;
                   (2) It uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of the prizes associated with
                   the results of the sweepstakes entries;
                   (3) It utilizes software such that the simulated game influences or determines the
                   winning or value of the prize;
                   (4) It selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of entries;
                   (5) It utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a predetermined sweepstakes
ELECTRONIC GAMING  entry;
OPERATION          (6) It predetermines the prize results and stores those results for delivery at the time
                   the sweepstakes entry results are revealed;
                   (7) It utilizes software to create a game result;
                   (8) It requires deposit of any money, coin or token, or the use of any credit card, debit
                   card, prepaid card or any other method of payment, to activate the electronic machine or
                   device;
                   (9) It requires direct payment into the electronic machine or device, or remote
                   activation of the electronic machine or device;
                   (10) It requires purchase of a related product;
                   (11) The related product, if any, has legitimate value;
                   (12) It reveals the prize incrementally, even though it may not influence if a prize is
                   awarded, or the value of any prize awarded;
                   (13) It determines and associates the prize with an entry or entries at the time the
                   sweepstakes is entered; or
                   (14) It is a slot machine or other form of electrical, mechanical or computer game.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE See SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD.
BOARD
                   A public or private school offering general, technical or alternative instruction at the
                   elementary, middle and/or high school levels that operates in buildings or structures or
ELEMENTARY OR      on premises on land leased or owned by the educational institution for administrative
SECONDARY SCHOOL   purposes. Such uses include classrooms, vocational training (including that of an
                   industrial nature for instructional purposes only), laboratories, auditoriums, libraries,
                   cafeterias, after school care, athletic facilities, dormitories and other facilities that
                   further the educational mission of the institution.
                   An application for the installation of new or replacement antennas and related wireless
                   telecommunications equipment on an existing telecommunications tower. An ELIGIBLE
ELIGIBLE FACILITY  FACILITIES REQUEST may include increasing the height and/or replacement of an existing
REQUEST            telecommunications tower but shall not include any activities that constitute a
                   “substantial modification” as defined in this ordinance and G.S. § 1600-931. ELIGIBLE
                   FACILITY REQUESTS are reviewed and decided in accordance with the procedures for a minor
                   collocation.
                   The location of a building, structure or portion of a building or structure in an open
                   space, setback, yard or other area typically required to remain free of buildings or
ENCROACHMENT       structures.
                   In floodprone areas, an ENCROACHMENT is the advance or infringement of uses, fill
                   excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
                   impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
ENTRANCE, PRIMARY  See PRIMARY ENTRANCE.
                   A non-habitable structure, such as a box, enclosure, vault, shelter or pedestal,
EQUIPMENT CABINET  typically located above ground, which contains radios, computers or other equipment
                   necessary for the transmission or reception of wireless telecommunications signals.
                   An area containing wireless telecommunications equipment serving antennas on a nearby
                   telecommunications tower, utility pole, building or other vertical projection. An
EQUIPMENT COMPOUND EQUIPMENT COMPOUND is commonly fenced or surrounded by walls that limit access to members
                   of the general public. Nothing shall limit an equipment compound from being located
                   within a building, on the roof of a building or underground.
EROSION AND        Any plan submitted to the Division of Energy, Mineral and Land Resources or a delegated
SEDIMENTATION      authority (such as the town) in accordance with G.S. § 13A-57.
CONTROL PLAN
ESTABLISHED GRADE  The ground elevation at a specific point on a site after completion of development
                   activity or prior to development activity on a vacant site.
                   A commercial establishment and associated grounds engaged in the hosting and production
                   of pre-planned events like weddings, corporate parties or reunions. Typical accessory
EVENT VENUE        uses include kitchens or meal preparation space, limited overnight accommodations,
                   photography studios, facilities to accommodate live or recorded music, on- and off-site
                   parking and outdoor recreation facilities.
EVERGREEN TREE     See TREE, EVERGREEN.
EVIDENTIARY        A hearing to gather competent material and substantial evidence in order to make findings
HEARING            for a quasi-judicial decision required by this UDO.
EXEMPTION          A use, site feature or development condition that is exempted or authorized to deviate
                   from otherwise applicable requirements.
                   A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has been recorded in the office of
EXISTING LOT (LOT  the County Register of Deeds prior to the adoption of the town’s subdivision ordinance
OF RECORD)         (November 1, 1995), or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has
                   been so recorded prior to the adoption of the subdivision ordinance.
EXISTING TREE(S)   Trees or other woody vegetation that exist and are retained on a development site.
EXPANSION          An increase in the floor area of an existing structure or building, or the increase of
                   area of a use.
EX-PARTE           Any communication between a member of a decision-making body and another person involved
COMMUNICATION      in a development application that is made without the presence or knowledge of the other
                   members of the same decision-making body.
                   Includes the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior
                   of a building or other structure, including the color, the kind and texture of the
EXTERIOR           building material, the size and scale of the building and the type and style of all
ARCHITECTURAL      windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant fixtures. In the case of
FEATURES           outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES shall be construed to mean the
                   style, material, size and location of all such signs. Such EXTERIOR FEATURES shall
                   include historic signs, color and significant landscape, archaeological and natural
                   features of the area.
EXTERIOR LIGHTING  Illumination of a building, parking lot or site feature.
                   A use involving on-site extraction of surface or subsurface mineral products or natural
EXTRACTIVE         resources. Typical uses are quarries, borrow pits, sand and gravel operations, mining,
INDUSTRY           hydraulic fracturing and similar activities. Specifically excluded from this use is
                   grading and removal of dirt associated with an approved site plan or subdivision, or
                   excavations associated with, and for the improvement of, a bona fide agricultural use.
F
                   The processing and/or assemblage of various components into a complete or partially
                   completed commodity. FABRICATION related to stamping, cutting or otherwise shaping the
FABRICATION        processed materials into useful objects, and the refining aspects of manufacturing and
                   other initial processing of basic raw materials such as metal, ore, lumber and rubber and
                   the like, are also included.
FACADE             See BUILDING FACADE.
                   The exterior facade of a building where the primary or front entrance is located.
FACADE, FRONT      Typically, the FRONT FACADE faces the street from which the building derives its street
                   address.
FACADE, REAR       The exterior facade of a building that is opposite the front facade.
FACADE, SIDE       The exterior facade of a building perpendicular to the front facade.
                   The entire exterior wall of a building facing a lot line measured from the grade to the
FACADE WALL        eave or highest point of a flat or mansard roof. Facades may be on the front, side or
                   rear elevation of the building.
FALSE (OR OPAQUE)  An exterior building material provided to replace or approximate a window.
WINDOWS
FALSE WINDOW OR    An exterior building material provided to replace or approximate a window, or a glass-
DISPLAY CASEMENT   fronted niche within a building wall used to display products available for sale.
                   One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage living and cooking together as
FAMILY             a single housekeeping unit. The number of persons, but not exceeding a total of three
                   unrelated persons, living and cooking together as a single housekeeping unit though not
                   related by blood, adoption or marriage, shall be deemed to constitute a FAMILY.
                   A home with support and supervisory personnel that provides room and board, personal care
                   and habilitation services in a family environment for not more than six resident persons
                   with disabilities. A disabled person is a person with a temporary or permanent physical,
FAMILY CARE HOME   emotional or mental disability, including, but not limited to, an intellectual
                   disability, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional
                   disturbances and orthopedic impairments but not including mentally ill persons who are
                   dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)(b).
                   Family exception regulations allow family members to subdivide property without having to
                   comply with the approval process for major subdivisions. (See § 3310.) Approval is
FAMILY EXCEPTION/  provided by the Town Planner at a fee as stated in the fee schedule. Linear family
EXEMPTI ON         members consist of parents, their children, their grandchildren, their brothers and
                   sisters. The term FAMILY EXCEPTION/EXEMPTION does not include aunts, uncles and cousins.
                   The subdivision must meet the current subdivision and zoning regulations, with the
                   exception of the road standards.
FAMILY HEALTHCARE  A transportable residential structure that is primarily assembled at a location other
STRUCTURE          than its site of installation and provides an environment facilitating a caregiver’s
                   provision of care for a mentally or physically impaired person.
                   A principal use which includes the sale of horticulture or agriculture products,
FARMERS MARKET     including nursery stock, perennial, annuals, bulbs, mulch, compost, dried flowers,
                   Christmas trees and greens, fresh produce, honey, cider and similar agriculture products.
                   A board or other exterior material provided at the edge of a building where the roof
FASCIA             meets the exterior wall. When gutters are provided, they are typically mounted to the
                   FASCIA.
                   A physical barrier or enclosure consisting of wood, stone, brick, block, wire, metal or
FENCE OR WALL      similar material used as a boundary or means of protection, retention or confinement, but
                   not including a hedge or vegetation.
FENESTRATION       The arrangement of windows and doors on a building’s facade.
FINANCIAL          See PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
GUARANTEE
                   An establishment that provides retail banking services, mortgage lending or similar
                   financial services to individuals and businesses. Financial institutions include those
                   establishments engaged in the on-site circulation of cash money and check-cashing
FINANCIAL SERVICE  facilities, but shall not include bail bond brokers. FINANCIAL SERVICES may also provide
                   automated teller machines (ATM) services, located within a fully enclosed space or
                   building or along an exterior building wall intended to serve walk-up customers only.
                   FINANCIAL SERVICES may include drive-through facilities.
FINISHED SIDE OF   The side of a fence configured for the best possible appearance that does not include
FENCE              structural supports or exterior materials with imperfections.
                   A lane or designated area in a parking lot or on a street that is reserved for
FIRE LANE          firefighting equipment or staging of people during a fire and is not intended for the
                   parking of vehicles or storage.
FLAG               The colors and/or emblem of a government body, association, group, business or
                   corporation. A string of flags is a streamer and is not included in this definition.
                   An irregularly shaped lot where the buildable portion of the lot is connected to its
FLAG LOT           street frontage by an arm. Further, in cases where a minimum lot width is prescribed, the
                   arm is less than the presumptive minimum required lot width.
FLAGPOLE           A freestanding structure or structure attached to the wall or roof of a building that is
                   used to display flags.
                   Buildings designed to accommodate a combination of offices (e.g., service establishments
                   and contractor’s offices), wholesale establishments, warehousing/distribution, industrial
FLEX SPACE         services and light manufacturing, with the exact proportions of each use being subject to
                   user needs over time. Such uses are treated as principal uses and subject to the
                   standards and limitations applicable to such uses, e.g., parking, and are included in the
                   total gross floor area if located on the same lot.
                   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land
FLOOD and FLOODING areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters or the unusual and rapid accumulation
                   of runoff of surface waters from any sources.
FLOOD HAZARD       The official map on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the
BOUNDARY MAP       areas of special flood hazard and the risk management zones applicable to the town.
FLOOR              The top surface of an enclosed area in a building, including basement, such as top of
                   slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring in frame construction.
                   An industrial establishment engaged in the production and processing of bulk and packaged
FOOD PRODUCTION    foods for off-site consumption. Such uses may also include facilities for storage and
                   transport, but shall not include retail sales directly to members of the public.
                   A motorized vehicle that is designed to be readily moved and operated for the purpose of
FOOD TRUCK         preparing and or selling food and or non-alcoholic beverages to the general public on a
                   recurring basis.
                   A unit of measure of the intensity of light falling on a surface. It is often defined as
FOOT-CANDLE        the amount of illumination the inside surface of a one-foot-radius sphere would be
                   receiving if there were a uniform point source of one candela in the exact center of the
                   sphere. One FOOT-CANDLE is equal to one lumen per square foot.
FOOTPRINT          See BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
FOREST             As used in conservation subdivisions, stands of trees greater than eight inches DBH
                   covering at least 2,500 feet of a proposed subdivision.
FORESTED LAND      Land consisting of 20 acres or more of wooded land that are in actual production and have
                   a forestry plan.
FORESTRY ACTIVITY  An activity related to plating, maintaining or removing trees as part of a forestry
                   management plan or bona fide farming activity.
                   A sign that is permanently embedded and/or anchored in the ground, in concrete or
FREESTANDING SIGN  similar. This includes a sign that has a decorative foundation or base, such as brick
                   and/or stone. A FREESTANDING SIGN is also known as a PYLON SIGN.
FRONT FACADE       See FACADE, FRONT.
                   An establishment that stores and distributes fuel oil or bottled gases such as propane,
FUEL OIL/BOTTLED   oxygen or liquid petroleum in bulk quantities for wholesale sale or distribution to
GAS DISTRIBUTOR    retail outlets or end consumers at the point of use. A use engaged in sale of automobile
                   fuel is a retail use.
FULL-SERVICE       Connections between streets or streets and driveways where no physical or other
ACCESS or NO       restrictions to movement exist. For example, a connection from a residential subdivision.
CONTROL OF ACCESS
                   A commercial establishment engaged in the provision of services related to funeral
FUNERAL-RELATED    services for humans or pets. Such uses may provide embalming, cremation and memorial
SERVICE            services. Chapels and storage areas are accessory uses. Uses for the internment of human
                   or animal remains are park and open space uses.
G
GABLE              A triangular area of an exterior wall formed by two sloping roofs.
GALLERY            A balcony or platform on an upper floor that projects from the primary wall plane of the
                   building that is open underneath.
GAME ROOM          A principal use providing gaming machines, such as air hockey, football, pinball; pool
                   tables; or billiards. Electronic gaming operations are not permitted in GAME ROOMS.
                   One that is adapted, or may be readily converted into one that is adapted, for use in
                   such a way that, as a result of the payment of any piece of money or coin or token or any
                   credit card, debit card, prepaid card or any other method that requires payment to
                   activate play, whether directly into the slot machine or device or resulting in remote
                   activation, such machine or device is caused to operate or may be operated in such manner
GAMING MACHINE OR  that the user may receive or become entitled to receive any piece of money, credit,
DEVICE             allowance or thing of value or any check, slug, token or memorandum, whether of value or
                   otherwise, or which may be exchanged for any money, credit, allowance or anything of
                   value, or which may be given in trade, or the user may secure additional chances or
                   rights to use such machine, apparatus or device; or any other machine or device designed
                   and manufactured primarily for use in connection with gambling and which machine or
                   device is classified by the United States as requiring a federal gaming device tax stamp
                   under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
GATHERING SPACE OR A formal or informal area intended for or used by the general public to gather or
AREA               congregate together for interaction or recreation.
                   Establishments engaged in the repair or servicing of agriculture, industrial, business or
                   consumer machinery, equipment, products or by-products, including machine shops; tool
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL repair; electric motor repair; repair of scientific or professional instruments; laundry,
SERVICES           dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants; film processing; and general industrial service
                   uses. Firms that provide these services do so by mainly providing centralized services
                   for separate retail outlets. Few customers, especially the general public, come to the
                   site.
GENERAL STATUTES   A statute is a written law passed by the General Assembly that sets forth general
                   propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations.
                   The effect produced within the visual field by a high intensity or insufficiently
GLARE              shielded light source that is significantly brighter than the level to which the eyes are
                   adapted, causing annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance or visibility of
                   objects.
GLAZING            The portion of an exterior building surface occupied by glass or windows.
                   A tract of land under public ownership or operation laid out with at least nine holes for
GOLF COURSE,       playing the game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways and hazards. A golf
PUBLIC             course may include a clubhouse (with or without eating facilities), shelters, a driving
                   range, putting green, maintenance facilities, an irrigation system and outdoor storage of
                   materials and equipment.
GOOD CAUSE         Legally adequate or substantial grounds or reason to take a certain action based upon the
                   circumstances of each individual case.
GOOD FAITH         Sincere conduct free from malice or a desire to defraud others.
                   An office or other facility of a governmental agency that provides administrative and/or
GOVERNMENTAL USE   direct services to the public, such as, but not limited to, employment offices, public
                   assistance offices or motor vehicle licensing and registration services. Such uses may
                   also house maintenance and repair centers, equipment and outdoor storage yards.
GRAVEYARD          See CEMETERY, COLUMBARIUM or MAUSOLEUM.
                   Public open space under the control and maintenance of the town or other legal entity
GREENWAY           which has been designated on an officially adopted greenway or open space plan and
                   developed in accordance with the adopted greenway or open space plan.
GROSS ACREAGE      As used in conservation subdivisions, the total area of the parcel prior to the creation
                   of a conservation subdivision.
                   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of the principal building, and any
                   accessory building or structures measured from outside of the exterior walls or from the
GROSS FLOOR AREA   centerline of party walls. The term does not include any area used exclusively for the
                   surface parking of motor vehicles or for building or equipment access, such as stairs,
                   elevator shafts and maintenance crawlspace.
GROUND-BASED       Utility or other equipment of a mechanical nature that is mounted on or below grade on
MECHANICAL         the site it serves.
EQUIPMENT
                   Low growing plants such as grasses, ivy, creeping bushes and similar decorative plantings
GROUND COVER       as well as mulch, pine straw or other similar materials used to cover the ground within
                   required landscaping areas.
GROUP HOME         See FAMILY CARE HOME and G.S. § 1600-907.
G.S.               The General Statutes of the State of North Carolina.
GUARD HOUSE,       An accessory building, whether habitable or not, positioned at the entrance of a
SHELTER or         development to demarcate the boundary of the development. Such structures may include
GATEHOUSE          facilities for seating, guards, bus stops or similar features. Vehicular gates are not
                   included as part of a GUARD HOUSE, SHELTER or GATEHOUSE.
H
HABITABLE SPACE    A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking, or used as a home
                   occupation.
                   A commercial establishment engaged in the provision of services pertaining to hair care,
HAIR, NAILS AND    hair styling, hair removal, nail care, makeup, facial treatments, tanning, massage
SKIN-RELATED       therapy and similar cosmetic treatments. Such uses may or may not include other spa or
SERVICES           salon facilities such as showers, baths and the incidental sales of food for on-site
                   consumption and personal skin or hair care products.
HARDSHIP           Special or specified circumstances that place an unreasonable or disproportionate burden
                   on one applicant or landowner over another.
HAZARDOUS          Those materials that are listed in the most current consolidated list of chemicals
MATERIALS          covered by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Title III, being 42
                   U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.
                   A small-scale facility where patients are admitted for examination and treatment by one
                   or more physicians, dentists or psychologists on a short-term basis. Patients may or may
HEALTHCARE USE     not receive care or lodging overnight, but the facility is not intended for long-term
                   overnight care. Such facilities may include sleeping rooms for care workers and members
                   of patient’s families.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT    Premises on which new or used heavy equipment (tractors, loaders, excavators, backhoes,
SALES, RENTAL AND  cranes, lifts, rollers and similar devices) are displayed for sale, lease or rental. On-
REPAIR             site repair and service to heavy equipment is also provided.
HEIGHT (OF A       The vertical distance from the mean natural grade at the foundation to the highest
STRUCTURE OR PART  portion of the structure, or part of a structure.
OF A STRUCTURE)
HIGH INTENSITY LED One or more light emitting diodes that are optimized for providing an extra-bright,
                   highly visible light.
HOME OCCUPATION    Any activity carried out for gain by a resident and conducted within the resident’s
                   dwelling unit or an allowable accessory structure.
HOME OFFICE        The use of a portion of a principal residence for conducting office or commercial-related
                   activity.
                   An organization of homeowners or property owners of lots or land in a particular
HOMEOWNERS’      subdivision, condominium or planned development. The homeowners’ association is
ASSOCIATION        responsible for maintaining and enhancing the shared private infrastructure (e.g.,
                   stormwater, streets and sidewalks) and common elements such as recreation areas.
HORIZONTAL FACADE  Projections, recesses, ribs, fins or building wings distributed evenly across the facade
MODULATION         of a building.
                   A building or group of buildings in which sleeping accommodations are offered to the
                   public and intended primarily for rental for temporary occupancy by persons on an
                   overnight basis. HOTELS or MOTELS may include an associated eating establishment,
HOTEL or MOTEL     conference facilities and on-site recreational amenities. HOTELS or MOTELS regularly
                   offering extended duration stay facilities to patrons are extended stay facilities.
                   Hotel, motel, resorts, lodges and similar overnight lodging uses are to be considered
                   synonymous uses.
H.V.A.C.           Offices for heating and cooling contractors, and related storage facilities. Such uses
CONTRACTOR         may include facilities for the fabrication of metal parts, but creation of metal is a
                   heavy industrial use.
I
                   A sign with an artificial light source for the purpose of illuminating the sign. An
ILLUMINATED SIGN   externally-illuminated sign is illuminated by an external source that reflects light off
                   the surface of a sign face. An internally-illuminated sign has an internal light source
                   that emits light through the sign face, i.e., LED, fluorescent and the like.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE Any material that reduces and prevents absorption of stormwater runoff into previously
                   undeveloped land.
                   A commercial establishment located entirely indoors that provides recreational, amusement
INDOOR COMMERCIAL  and entertainment opportunities for patrons, including activities such as billiards,
RECREATION         bingo, bowling, video games, escape rooms, fortune tellers, skating rinks, laser tag,
                   trampolines and climbing walls.
                   Solid waste consisting solely of material that is virtually inert, that is likely to
INERT DEBRIS       retain its physical and chemical structure under expected conditions of disposal, and
                   that will not pose a threat to groundwater standards. INERT DEBRIS includes material such
                   as concrete, brick, concrete block, uncontaminated soil, rock and gravel.
INTERMITTENT       A well-defined channel that contains water for only part of the year, typically during
STREAM             winter and spring when the aquatic bed is below the perched of seasonal high-water table.
                   The flow may be supplemented by stormwater runoff.
INTERNALLY         An awning, sign or canopy with an internal source of illumination.
ILLUMINATED
ITINERANT MERCHANT An individual or business offering goods or services for sale at retail to members of the
SALES              general public either in their homes, their place of business or from a vehicle on a lot
                   with an established use or a vacant lot.
J
                   Debris or refuse such as metals, plastics, appliances, paper, trash, tires and other
JUNK               waste; pre-used or unusable; that are worn, deteriorated or obsolete, making them
                   unusable in their existing condition, to include junked, dismantled or wrecked
                   automobiles, machinery or parts thereof.
                   The term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means an abandoned motor vehicle that also:
                   (1) Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
                   (2) Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was originally intended
                   to move; or
                   (3) Is more than five years old and worth less than $500 as provided by the municipality
                   in an ordinance adopted under this section.
                   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE is also defined in G.S. § 160A-303(b2).
                   ABANDONED VEHICLE, MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLES are defined in G.S. § 160A-303(b1). An
                   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
                   (1) Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance prohibiting
                   parking;
                   (2) Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24 hours;
                   (3) Is left on private property without the consent of the owner, occupant or lessee
                   thereof for longer than two hours; or
                   (4) Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days or is determined
JUNKED, ABANDONED  by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public.
AND NUISANCE MOTOR NUISANCE VEHICLE means a vehicle on public or private property that is determined and
VEHICLES           declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful, including a
                   vehicle found to be:
                   (1) A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or other pests;
                   (2) A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over eight inches in
                   height;
                   (3) A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
                   (4) A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
                   explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
                   (5) One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside, such as
                   trunks, hoods and the like;
                   (6) So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or turning over;
                   (7) One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
                   rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
                   (8) One which has sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges of metal or glass;
                   or
                   (9) Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard and a public
                   nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
JUNK YARD          See SALVAGE OR JUNK YARD.
JUST CAUSE         Legitimate cause; legal or lawful ground for action.
K
L
LAND CLEARING      Solid waste generated solely from land clearing activities, such as stumps, trees, limbs,
DEBRIS             brush, grass and other naturally occurring vegetative material.
LANDSCAPE FABRIC   A geotextile material used to control weeds by inhibiting their exposure to sunlight.
LANDSCAPE ISLAND   The portion of a parking lot intended for landscaping material and pervious surfaces.
LANDSCAPE STRIP    Linear landscape islands located between two parallel rows of off-street parking spaces.
                   The improvement of a lot, parcel or tract of land with grass, shrubs and trees.
LANDSCAPING        LANDSCAPING may include pedestrian walks, flower beds, ornamental objects such as
                   fountains, statuary and objects designed and arranged to produce an aesthetically
                   pleasing effect.
LED LIGHTING       A strip or connected string of semiconductor diodes that emit visible light when electric
                   voltage is applied.
LEGISLATIVE        The adoption, amendment or repeal of a regulation under this UDO. As used in §
DECISION           3307, Development Agreement, a decision to approve, amend or rescind a development
                   agreement.
LEGISLATIVE        A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed legislative decision.
HEARING
LIGHT TRESPASS     Unwanted light that shines from one lot to another.
LIGHTING PLAN      A graphic deposition of proposed exterior lighting fixture locations, height, anticipated
                   luminance and cones of illumination.
LOADING SPACE      Space logically and conveniently located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to
(FACILITY)         delivery vehicles and not considered as part of the minimum required off-street surface
                   parking.
LOCAL STREET       A street designated as a local street in the town’s adopted policy guidance, the
                   applicable comprehensive transportation plan or by the NCDOT.
                   A parcel of land not divided by streets that is or will be occupied by a building and its
LOT                accessory building(s) or an open-air use of land, together with all required yard and
                   other required open spaces, with all forms of required access and necessary utilities.
LOT LINE           A line that marks the boundary of a lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR Any lot line that is not a street lot line; a lot line separating a lot from another lot.
                   Any lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-way or easement. Where a lot line is
LOT LINE, STREET   located within such street right-of-way or easement, the right-of-way or easement
                   boundary adjacent of the lot shall be considered the street lot line.
LOT LINE, ZERO     Any interior lot line along which a structure is allowed with no setback.
                   A lot which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds or a lot described
LOT OF RECORD      by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in the office of the
                   Register of Deeds.
                   The horizontal distance measured along a straight line connecting the points at which a
LOT WIDTH          line demarcating the minimum street setback required from a street lot line intersects
                   with interior lot lines and/or other street lot lines.
LUMEN              A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light emitted by a light source.
M
                   A significant deviation in an application, proposed development or portion of a
                   development that impacts the operation, appearance, function, value or compatibility of
MAJOR MODIFICATION proposed development with its surroundings. A change in the meaning or language of a
                   legal document, such as a contract, agreement or approval that is made by one party to
                   the document without the consent of the other after it has been signed or completed.
                   A collaborative workspace that includes shared tools, workspaces, technology and
MAKERSPACE         knowledge in order to assist participants working alone or with collaborators to create
                   and produce ideas, products and services. MAKERSPACES can be formed for the purpose of
                   instruction, creation of material for sale or a combination of the two.
                   A manufactured home of at least 320 square feet and constructed after June 15, 1976, that
MANUFACTURED       meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the United StatesDepartment of
DWELLING, CLASS A  Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction. CLASS A
(DOUBLEWIDE)       MANUFACTURED HOMES do not include any size recreational vehicle, camper trailer or
                   A.N.S.I. park model homes.
                   A manufactured home of at least 320 square feet constructed after June 15, 1976, that
MANUFACTURED       meets or exceeds the standards promulgated by the United StatesDepartment of Housing and
DWELLING, CLASS B  Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction, but which does not
(SINGLEWIDE)       meet the definition of a Class A (doublewide) manufactured home. CLASS B MANUFACTURED
                   HOMES do not include any size recreational vehicle, camper trailer or A.N.S.I. park model
                   homes.
MANUFACTURED       A mobile home constructed prior to June 15, 1976, and/or does not meet the definition of
DWELLING, CLASS C  either a Class A or a Class B manufactured home.
                   A piece of land within a residential-manufactured home park whose boundaries are
MANUFACTURED HOME  delineated in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance and that is designed and
LOT                improved in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance to accommodate one
                   manufactured home.
MANUFACTURED HOME  Any lot or part of a lot, or any parcel of land which is used or offered as a location
PARK               for three or more manufactured homes, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for
                   such accommodations.
MANUFACTURED HOME  Any manufactured home park street or road intersecting or providing direct access to a
PARK MAJOR         state-maintained road, or a street that regularly serves 40% of the residents of the
COLLECTOR STREET   park.
MANUFACTURED HOME  Any residential-manufactured home park street or road serving only to provide access to
PARK MINOR         the individual spaces.
COLLECTOR STREET
MANUFACTURED HOME  A plot of land within a residential-manufactured home park designed for the accommodation
SPACE              of a single manufactured home in accordance with the requirements set forth in this
                   ordinance.
MANUFACTURED HOME  The portion of the manufactured home space designed for and used as the area occupied by
STAND OR PAD       the manufactured home proper.
                   Uses that tend to require large amounts of bulk or unrefined materials which are
                   typically processed and stored outdoors on the site. These uses require a significant
                   amount of energy for the processing of raw materials, and are likely to generate
                   significant noise, vibration, dust, glare, heat, odor, smoke, truck traffic, in the
MANUFACTURING,     immediate vicinity of the use. HEAVY MANUFACTURING uses include, but are not limited to:
HEAVY              manufacture or assembly of machinery; equipment; instruments; vehicles; appliances;
                   communications equipment; computer or electronic equipment; precision items and other
                   electrical items; the processing of food and related products; lumber mills; pulp and
                   paper mills; the manufacture of other wood products; and electric power generation
                   plants.
                   Uses that involve indoor processing or assembly of finished or partially finished goods
                   and do not require large stockpiles of raw material. Processing and storage activities
                   take place solely within enclosed buildings, which helps limit (but does not completely
                   prevent) the creation of noise, vibration, dust, glare, heat, odor and smoke. Examples
                   include, but are not limited to: production or repair of small machines or electronic
MANUFACTURING,     parts and equipment; woodworking and cabinet building; publishing and lithography;
LIGHT              computer design and development; research, development, testing facilities and
                   laboratories; apparel production; sign making; assembly of pre-fabricated parts,
                   manufacture of electric, electronic or optical instruments or devices; manufacture and
                   assembly of artificial limbs, dentures, hearing aids and surgical instruments;
                   manufacture, processing and packing of food products, cosmetics and manufacturing of
                   components, jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations and any similar item.
MASSAGE            Any manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking, kneading or tapping by
                   hand or mechanical device.
                   A conceptual plan that illustrates and defines land use areas for residential, office,
MASTER PLAN        commercial, open spaces and special facilities or other land uses. General circulation
                   patterns, both vehicular and pedestrian, are identified and indicated on the conceptual
                   plan.
                   The continuation of one or more exterior building materials on one building facade beyond
MATERIAL RETURN    an inside or outside building corner to a logical termination point on a different wall
                   plane.
MATURE TREE        A tree that has reached more than one-third of its expected maximum size.
                   No feasible or practical alternative exists, as determined by the town, and all possible
MAXIMUM EXTENT     efforts to comply with the standards or regulation to minimize potential harmful or
PRACTICABLE        adverse impacts have been undertaken by an applicant. Economic considerations may be
                   taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor determining MAXIMUM EXTENT
                   PRACTICABLE.
                   An industrial establishment engaged in the production, assembly and configuration of
METAL FABRICATION  metal products through the use of mechanical presses, forms, welding, grinding and other
AND WELDING        mechanical processes that form, join or alter the shape of metal but that do not include
                   the creation or production of metal.
                   An establishment engaged in the production and packaging of malt beverages, wine or
                   spirits for distribution, retail or wholesale both on- and off-premises. A MICROBREWERY
                   is a facility that produces less than 15,000 barrels of beer per year and sells the
MICROBREWERY OR    majority of the beer it produces for off-site resale and consumption. A microwinery
MICRODISTILLERY    produces less than 100,000 gallons of wine per year. A MICRODISTILLERY produces less than
                   15,000 gallons of alcoholic spirits per year. Accessory uses may include a taproom,
                   seating areas, ancillary sales of related merchandise, event space and warehouse space
                   for stored product.
                   An insignificant deviation in an application, proposed development or portion of a
MINOR MODIFICATION development that does not impact the operation, appearance, function, value or
                   compatibility of proposed development.
                   A format that integrates some combination of residential, commercial, industrial or
MIXED USE          institutional use types in one single building or within one single development. MIXED
                   USE DEVELOPMENT may include different use types within the same building or different use
                   types within the same development that is comprised of multiple buildings.
MODULAR OR         Construction of prefabricated units which are fabricated prior to erection or
PREFABRICATED      installation in a building or structure and may be shipped to their final on-site
CONSTRUCTION       location.
MULTI-BUILDING     Developments that include two or more buildings on one or more lots that are planned,
DEVELOPMENT        organized and managed as a single development for the purposes of the development
                   standards.
                   A development that includes three or more dwelling units configured in one or more
MULTI-FAMILY       buildings on the same lot or development site. The development includes shared parking
DEVELOPMENT        areas, shared open spaces around the development, active recreation features and
                   centralized waste/refuse collection facilities.
                   A structure containing three or more dwelling units that are not located on individual
MULTI-FAMILY       lots. Units may be located side by side in a horizontal configuration or stacked one
DWELLING           above the other in a vertical configuration, sharing common vertical walls or horizontal
                   floors and ceilings. MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS include what are commonly called apartments,
                   or condominium units, but not single-family attached dwellings.
MULTIPLE LOT       Developments that include two or more buildings on two or more lots that are planned,
DEVELOPMENT        organized and managed as a single development for the purposes of the development
                   standards.
                   A form of infrastructure that supports multiple recreation and transportation
MULTI-USE PATH     opportunities, such as walking, bicycling, inline skating and people in wheelchairs.
                   Paths are typically surfaced with asphalt, concrete or firmly packed crushed aggregate.
N
NATIVE TREE        See TREE, NATIVE.
                   Tubing, whether flexible or rigid, mounted to a building wall or other building feature
NEON LIGHTING      for the purposes of providing illumination, security, attracting attention or displaying
                   a message.
NEW DEVELOPMENT    For the purposes of the riparian buffer standards, any development project that does not
                   meet the definition of existing development set out in this ordinance.
NONCONFORMING      A physical feature, characteristic or a use, building structure, or other development of
FEATURE            land that was lawfully established prior to the effective date of the ordinance, but does
                   not conform to the requirements of this ordinance.
                   A lot that was lawfully created prior to the effective date of the town’s subdivision
NONCONFORMING LOT  ordinance (November 5, 1995) but does not conform to the requirements of this ordinance
                   or the preceding subdivision ordinance.
NONCONFORMING SIGN A sign that was erected legally but does not comply with these sign regulations.
                   A use of land, buildings or structures that was lawfully established prior to the
NONCONFORMING USE  effective date of this ordinance but does not conform to the use regulations for the
                   zoning district in which it is located.
                   As used in conservation subdivisions, any charitable corporation, charitable association
                   or charitable trust (such as a land trust), the purposes or powers of which include
NON-PROFIT         retaining or protecting the natural, scenic or open space values of real property,
CONSERVATION       assuring the availability of real property for agricultural, forest, recreational or open
ORGANIZATION       space use, protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water quality or
                   preserving the historical, architectural, archaeological or cultural aspects of real
                   property.
                   The formal legal notification of a public hearing on a proposed development application.
NOTICE OF PUBLIC   A PUBLISHED NOTICE is one required to be printed in a newspaper of general circulation. A
HEARING            MAILED NOTICE is one delivered to specified individuals by United StatesMail. A POSTED
                   NOTICE is a sign posted on or near the property subject to the application.
NOTICE OF          A notice indicating a violation of this ordinance.
VIOLATION
                   A structure designed or used for residential occupancy and providing limited medical or
NURSING HOME       nursing care on the premises for occupants 24 hours a day, but not including a hospital
                   or mental health center.
O
                   The term OATH shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law,
OATH               an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in like cases the terms “swear” and
                   “sworn” shall be equivalent to the terms “affirm” and “affirmed.”
OCCUPANCY          The act, state or condition of holding, possessing, residing or otherwise using a
                   premises, lot, site, building or dwelling.
                   A room or group of rooms used for the purpose of providing medical care or treatment,
                   including therapeutic services and counseling. Examples of MEDICAL OFFICES include
                   physicians, dentists, ophthalmologists, chiropractors, psychologists and similar medical
OFFICE, MEDICAL    specialists. MEDICAL OFFICES may or may not include laboratories, medication sales and
                   physical therapy facilities as an accessory use. Use types where medical professionals
                   from differing firms or practices provide services or where patients receive treatment or
                   services beyond the scope of a typical office visit are healthcare uses.
                   A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business profession.
OFFICE,            Examples of PROFESSIONAL OFFICES include offices for lawyers, accountants, engineers,
PROFESSIONAL       architects and similar professions. PROFESSIONAL OFFICES may include a shared kitchen,
                   lobby area, meeting rooms and document production areas.
OFFICIAL PLANS     Any plans officially adopted by the Town Board of Commissioners as a guide for the
                   development of the town consisting of maps, charts and texts.
OFFICIAL ZONING    The official zoning map upon which the boundaries of various zoning districts are drawn
MAP                and which is an integral part of this ordinance.
OFF-SITE VIEWS     Views of or into a development site from off-site locations, such as other lots, rights-
                   of-way or locations within the public realm.
ON-CENTER SPACING  Placement of landscape material in a regularly-spaced pattern of equal distance between
                   plants.
OPACITY            A measurement indicating the degree of obscuration of light or visibility.
OPAQUE             A building, structure, building material, vegetation or other site feature that forms a
                   solid visual barrier.
                   Land or water areas within the site designated for a particular development, not
OPEN SPACE SET-    individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended for the
ASIDE              common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development, but not including any lands
                   occupied by streets, street rights-of-way or off-street parking.
OPERATOR           The person responsible for the operation of a residential- manufactured home park.
                   Work done on a sign or structure to prevent deterioration or to replace any part thereof
ORDINARY REPAIRS   in order to correct any deterioration, decay or damage to any part thereof in order to
AND MAINTENANCE    restore same as nearly as practical to its condition prior to such deterioration, decay
                   or damage.
                   A commercial establishment located entirely primarily outdoors that provides
                   recreational, amusement and entertainment opportunities for patrons, including activities
OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL such as water parks, miniature golf, go cart racing, obstacle or ropes courses, zip
RECREATION         lines, paintball, mechanical rides and similar attractions. OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL RECREATION
                   uses may include buildings or structures that also provide indoor recreational
                   activities.
                   Accessory structures and related facilities that accommodate seating, gathering, dining
OUTDOOR DINING AND or drinking outdoors. Such uses are required to be accessory to a principal use of land.
SEATING            OUTDOOR DINING AND SEATING associated with a principal use shall not take place within a
                   street right-of-way without an encroachment agreement from the right-of-way owner.
OUTDOOR DISPLAY/   The keeping of any goods, merchandise or vehicles, in an unroofed area for marketing or
SALES              sales purposes.
                   Any lighting source designed to illuminate or aesthetically enhance a building, parking,
OUTDOOR LIGHTING   sign or storage area. Lighting shall be engineered as to be non-glaring on adjacent
                   properties or uses and to be dark sky, focused as not to exceed the building parapet.
                   A public or non-profit establishment located entirely primarily outdoors that provides
OUTDOOR            recreational, amusement and entertainment opportunities for visitors. OUTDOOR RECREATION
RECREATION, PUBLIC uses may include buildings or structures that also provide indoor recreational activities
                   as an accessory use.
                   The temporary sale of goods or products associated with the season or a cultural event,
OUTDOOR SEASONAL   such as the sale of Christmas trees, pumpkins or seasonal produce. Such sales typically
SALES              take place outdoors and in locations not devoted to such sales for the remainder of the
                   year.
OUTDOOR SHOOTING   A commercial establishment designed and operated for the safe discharge of firearms in an
RANGE              outdoor venue by members of the general public. Such uses may include lead reclamation
                   operations, noise control facilities and sales of ammunition as an accessory use.
                   The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods or materials, particularly goods and
OUTDOOR STORAGE    materials that have a large size, mass or volume and are either not easily moved or
(AS A PRINCIPAL OR carried or require a mechanical lifting device (e.g., non-bagged mulch and lumber). This
ACCESSORY USE)     use does not include a junk yard or recycling facility, vehicle fleet storage or the
                   display and storage of vehicles as part of an automobile sales or rental use.
                   A lot located within a multi-tenant development (e.g., a shopping center) which may or
OUTPARCEL OR PAD   may not have access from a public road abutting the development. The lot is treated as
SITE               part of the larger development with respect to applicable yard and dimensional
                   requirements.
OVERHANG           The edge of a roof or upper building story projecting outwards.
                   A zoning district designation that is applied over one or more previously established
OVERLAY ZONING     conventional or conditional zoning district designations. OVERLAY DISTRICTS modify the
DISTRICT           existing zoning district provisions by either adding additional regulations or providing
                   greater flexibility in deviations from the existing applicable standards.
                   An organization of homeowners or property owners of lots or land in a particular
                   subdivision, condominium or planned development. The OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION is responsible
OWNER ASSOCIATION  for maintaining and enhancing the shared private infrastructure (e.g., stormwater,
                   streets and sidewalks) and common elements such as recreation areas. Also see HOMEOWNERS’
                   ASSOCIATION.
                   The holder of a title in fee simple. Absent evidence to the contrary, the town may rely
                   on the county tax records to determine who is a landowner. The owner may authorize a
OWNER OR LANDOWNER person holding a valid option, lease or contract to purchase, to act as his or her agent
                   or representative for the purpose of making applications for development approvals or
                   permits.
P
                   A commercial establishment providing printing, faxing, copying, document binding,
PACKAGING AND      photographic processing, packing, mailbox, mailing and related services. Printing,
PRINTING SERVICES  document production and processing services may be provided either on- or off-site. Such
                   uses may also provide computer terminals, copiers and similar equipment for self-service
                   use by customers.
PARAPET            A building facade that rises above the roof level, typically obscuring a gable or flat
                   roof as well as any roof-mounted equipment.
PARCEL/LOT         Land bounded by lines legally established for the purpose of property division.
                   Land used for recreation, exercise, sports, education, rehabilitation or similar
PARK or PLAYGROUND activities, or a land area intended to enhance the enjoyment of natural features or
                   natural beauty, specifically excluding commercially operated amusement parks.
PARKING BAY        Two off-street parking spaces serving an individual manufactured home space.
                   The portion of a site or development dedicated to vehicular ingress and egress, off-
PARKING LOT        street parking, parking aisles, internal travel ways, fire lanes and other areas
                   dedicated to vehicular use, but not necessarily including vehicular storage areas.
PARKING LOT        Vehicular access provided between the vehicular use areas of two or more development
CONNECTION         sites or parcels of land intended to allow travel between the sites without the use of a
                   street.
                   The temporary parking of a commercial vehicle and an associated trailer used for daily or
PARKING OF         occasional private transportation at a residential dwelling. Parking of vehicles in
COMMERCIAL         excess of 10,000 pounds of gross vehicle weight shall be considered parking of heavy
VEHICLES           trucks or trailers. The presence of a commercial vehicle while work is being performed on
                   a dwelling or lot shall not constitute PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE as an accessory use.
                   The temporary parking of motor vehicles over 10,000 pounds of gross vehicle weight and
PARKING OF HEAVY   associated trailers or equipment. The presence of a commercial vehicle while work is
TRUCKS OR TRAILERS being performed on a building or lot shall not constitute PARKING OF A HEAVY TRUCK OR
                   TRAILER as an accessory use.
PARKING OF         The temporary parking or storage of a commercial vehicle, such as a recreational vehicle,
RECREATIONAL       camper, travel trailer, boat or similar equipment. Recreational vehicles shall not be
VEHICLES           used as accessory dwelling units.
                   A plan or diagram prepared by an applicant for development that depicts the required and
                   provided number of parking spaces, if different from the required number of parking
PARKING PLAN       spaces. The plan also shows points of vehicular ingress and egress, drive aisles, the
                   locations of parking lot landscaping islands, pedestrian circulation features and off-
                   street loading facilities.
PARKING SPACE      A location where an automobile or passenger truck is temporarily stored.
PARKING STUDY      An analysis of the minimum number of off-street parking spaces necessary to serve a
                   proposed use type.
PASSIVE OPEN SPACE Open space areas designated for passive recreation uses, including walking trails,
SET-ASIDE          pathways, gazebos, picnic areas, fountains and similar areas. Such areas may also include
                   undisturbed natural vegetation.
PENALTY            Punishment for violation of a law or rule.
                   A well-defined channel that contains water year-round during a year of normal rainfall
PERENNIAL STREAM   with the aquatic bed located below the perched or seasonal high-water table for most of
                   the year. Groundwater is the primary source of water for a PERENNIAL STREAM, but it also
                   carries stormwater.
PERFORMANCE        Cash or other guarantee provided by an applicant in-lieu of completion of public
GUARANTEE          infrastructure or required public site feature prior to issuance of a building permit or
                   other development approval.
PERIMETER BUFFER   See BUFFER, PERIMETER.
PERIMETER PARKING  Required landscaping located around the perimeter of a parking lot.
LOT LANDSCAPING
                   An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or private
PERSON             corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private institution, utility,
                   cooperative, interstate body, the state and its agencies and political subdivisions,
                   including the town or other legal entity.
                   A person with a temporary or permanent physical, emotional or mental disability,
PERSON WITH        including, but not limited to, mental retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism,
DISABILITIES       hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments, but not
                   including mentally ill persons who are dangerous to others, as defined in G.S. § 122C-3
                   (11)(b).
PERVIOUS           A substance that allows water to pass through it.
                   A commercial establishment engaged in the storage, preparation and sale of drugs and
                   other medications to customers at retail. PHARMACY uses may also offer a wide variety of
PHARMACY           food, household goods or other personal products for sale. A PHARMACY may also
                   incorporate a medical technician who provides on-site medical assistance and counseling
                   to patrons. PHARMACIES that exceed the floor area thresholds for large format retail uses
                   shall be considered as a large format retail use.
PHASE              The discrete portion of a proposed development.
PILASTER           A rectangular column with a capital and base that is attached or affixed to a wall as an
                   ornamental design feature.
PLACE OF WORSHIP   See CHURCH.
PLANNED            An area of land under unified ownership or control to be developed and improved as a
DEVELOPMENT        single entity under a planned development master plan in accordance with this ordinance.
                   The body appointed by the Town Board of Commissioners to develop and recommend long range
PLANNING BOARD     development plans and policies, and to advise the Board of Commissioners in matters
                   pertaining to current physical development and zoning for the town’s planning
                   jurisdiction.
PLANTING SEASON    The dormant time of the year for trees beginning with leaf drop and ending with bud
                   break; generally late fall to early spring.
PLANTING STRIP     Required landscaping material configured in a linear strip.
                   A map, generally of a development, showing the location, boundaries and ownership of
PLAT               individual properties. A PLAT may simply be the device for officially recording ownership
                   changes or lot divisions.
PLAY EQUIPMENT     Recreational equipment, whether temporary or permanent, placed for the exercise and
                   enjoyment of persons on the site of a different principal use.
PLOT PLAN          A simple drawing or sketch depicting compliance with one or more requirements of this
                   ordinance.
PORCH              A covered projection (can be glazed or screened) from the main wall of a building, with a
                   roof, which is not used for livable space.
PORTABLE STORAGE   A moveable container intended for storage of personal property, waste or debris, which is
CONTAINER          brought to a site on a temporary basis.
PORTICO            A large porch usually with a pediment usually associated with an entrance, supported by
                   columns.
                   A meeting or conference conducted by a potential applicant for a permit or development
PRE-APPLICATION    approval and town staff for the purposes of discussing a potential application or town
CONFERENCE         rules regarding development. A PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE does not constitute an approval
                   or denial of an application.
PRELIMINARY PLAT   A map showing data for a proposed subdivision, developed for the purpose of showing the
                   general layout of lots and roads.
PRIMARY ENTRANCE   The place of ingress and egress to a building, parcel or development used most frequently
                   by the public.
PRIMARY FACADE     The largest portion of a building wall in terms of area on a single building facade that
PLANE              maintains a uniform distance from the abutting lot line.
PRIMARY STREET     The street that provides the street or property address for a lot or building.
PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE OR       A structure in which is conducted the principal use(s) of the lot on which it is located.
BUILDING
PRINCIPAL USE      The primary purpose or function that a lot serves, or is intended to serve, according to
                   its zoning classification.
                   A building or structure used for the retail sales of fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers,
                   herbs or plants grown on the same parcel of land where the stand is located. Such use may
                   also involve the accessory sales of other unprocessed foodstuffs, home processed food
PRODUCE STAND      products such as jams, jellies, pickles, sauces or baked goods and homemade handicrafts.
                   No commercially packaged handicrafts or commercially processed or packaged foodstuffs
                   shall be sold. Such uses also include “pick your own” establishments where customers
                   gather their own produce from the fields for purchase and off-site consumption.
PROFESSIONAL       A civil, structural or traffic engineer licensed by the state.
ENGINEER
PROJECTION         Habitable space projecting outwards from the main wall of a building.
PROPERTY           All real property subject to this UDO. The term includes any improvements or structures
                   customarily regarded as part of real property.
PROTOTYPICAL       Exterior building materials and architecture that are standardized for a particular use
ARCHITECTURE       type or franchise operation
PUBLIC CONVENIENCE A publicly owned and operated facility for the purposes of collection of trash and waste
CENTER/TRANSFER    for relocation to a sorting facility or permanent long-term storage location.
STATION
                   A public hearing held for the purpose of soliciting public comments on a proposed
PUBLIC HEARING,    development application. Reasonable time limits on speakers may be imposed and
LEGISLATIVE        responsible decorum maintained. However, unlike quasi-judicial hearings, there is no
                   requirement for oaths, no limits on expression of personal opinions and no limit on
                   discussing the matter outside the context of the hearing.
                   A public hearing involving the legal rights of specific parties conducted by the Town
PUBLIC HEARING,    Board of Commissioners or the Board of Adjustment based on evidence and sworn testimony
QUASI- JUDICIAL    presented during the public hearing. Decisions made during such hearings are based upon
                   and supported by the record developed at the hearing, and involve findings of fact and
                   conclusions of law made by the review authority.
                   A gathering of town officials and interested members of the public to discuss an action
                   of the town or consider a development application. Unlike a public hearing, no prior
PUBLIC MEETING     public notification is required for a PUBLIC MEETING, and the acceptance of testimony
                   from meeting attendees is at the discretion of the review authority conducting the PUBLIC
                   MEETING.
PUBLIC OR          The sewer system owned and operated by the town, unless the sewer source is located on a
COMMUNITY SEWER    lot and serves only that lot in accordance with G.S. § 130A-343.
SYSTEM
PUBLIC OR          The water system owned and operated by the town, unless that water source is located on a
COMMUNITY WATER    lot and serves only that lot in accordance with G.S. § 130A-343.
SUPPLY SYSTEM
                   A facility that serves as the base of operations for a fire company, police precinct/
PUBLIC SAFETY      department, Sheriff’s office or emergency medical technician operation. Such facilities
FACILITY           may also include living quarters for personnel, equipment storage and vehicular
                   maintenance areas.
                   As defined in G.S. § 62-3(23): (A) A person, whether organized under the laws of this
                   state or under the laws of any other state or country, now or hereafter owning or
                   operating in this state equipment of facilities for:
                   (1) Producing, generating, transmitting, delivering or furnishing electricity, piped gas,
                   steam or any other like agency for the production of light, heat or power to or for the
                   public for compensation; provided, however, that the term PUBLIC UTILITY shall not
                   include persons who construct or operate an electric generating facility, the primary
                   purpose of which facility is either for: (i) a person’s own use
                   and not for the primary purpose of producing electricity, heat or steam for sale to or
                   for the public for compensation; or (ii) a person who constructs or operates an eligible
                   solar energy facility on the site of a customer’s property and leases such facility to
                   that customer, as provided by and subject to the limitations of G.S. Chapter 62, Article
                   6B;
                   (2) Diverting, developing, pumping, impounding, distributing or furnishing water to or
                   for the public for compensation, or operating a public sewerage system for compensation;
                   provided, however, that the term PUBLIC UTILITY shall not include any person or company
                   whose sole operation consists of selling water or sewer service to less than 15
                   residential customers, except that any person or company which constructs a water or
                   sewer system in a subdivision with plans for 15 or more lots and which holds itself out
                   by contracts or other means at the time of said construction to serve an area containing
                   more than 15 residential building lots shall be a public utility at the time of such
PUBLIC UTILITY     planning or holding out to serve such 15 or more building lots, without regard to the
                   number of actual customers connected;
                   (3) Transporting persons or household goods by street, suburban or interurban bus for the
                   public for compensation;
                   (4) Transporting persons or household goods by motor vehicles or any other form of
                   transportation for the public for compensation, except motor carriers exempted in G.S. §
                   62-260, carriers by rail and carriers by air;
                   (5) Transporting or conveying gas, crude oil or other fluid substance by pipeline for the
                   public for compensation; and
                   (6) Conveying or transmitting messages or communications by telephone or telegraph, or
                   any other means of transmission, where such service is offered to the public for
                   compensation.
                   (7) The term PUBLIC UTILITY, except as otherwise expressly provided in this UDO, shall
                   not include the following:
                   (a) A municipality, county or a city, town or village.
                   (b) A special district, public authority or unit of local government, as those terms are
                   defined in G.S. 159-7(b) and that is subject to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 159,
                   Subchapter III, Article 3.
                   (c) An electric or telephone membership corporation.
                   (d) Any person not otherwise a public utility who furnishes such service or commodity
                   only to himself or herself, his or her employees or tenants when such service or
                   commodity is not resold to or used by others.
                   Subsections d.1. through n. omitted. See G.S. § 62-3.
Q
                   A decision involving the finding of facts regarding a specific application of a
                   development regulation and that requires the exercise of discretion when applying the
                   standards of the regulation. The term includes, but is not limited to, decisions
                   involving variances, special use permits and appeals of administrative determinations.
QUASI-JUDICIAL     Decisions on the approval of subdivision plats and site plans are QUASI-JUDICIAL in
                   nature if the regulation authorizes a decision-making board to approve or deny the
                   application based not only upon whether the application complies with the specific
                   requirements set forth in the regulation, but also on whether the application complies
                   with one or more generally stated standards requiring a discretionary decision on the
                   findings to be made by the decision-making board. QUASI means “as if.”
                   The minimum number of Board of Commissioners, Planning Board or Board of Adjustment
QUORUM             members that must be present in order to conduct official business or take official
                   action.
R
                   A change, exception or adjustment to the standards of the UDO that may be necessary for a
                   person with a disability to have an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling,
REASONABLE         including public and common use spaces. The Town Board of Commissioners may grant
ACCOMMODATION      REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS following a quasi-judicial procedure. The Board of Adjustment
                   may grant a variance to make a REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION. See the United StatesFair
                   Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 through 3619.
RECESS             Habitable space that is recessed inwards from the main wall of a building.
RECONSTRUCTION     Rebuilding structures on a site with a pre-existing use that was demolished or removed.
RECREATION AREAS,  Includes playfields, tot lots, tennis courts, swimming pools and similar active play
ACTIVE             uses.
                   A vehicular-type portable structure without permanent foundation that can be towed,
                   hauled or driven and primarily designed as temporary living accommodation for
RECREATIONAL       recreational, camping and travel use, and including, but not limited to, travel trailers,
VEHICLES AND       truck campers, camping trailers, A.N.S.I. park model homes (or recreational park models)
CAMPER TRAILERS    and self-propelled motor homes, sail and motor boats. All recreation vehicles must be
                   classified mobile and bear a current license plate; and be able to evacuate in a timely
                   manner in case of emergency. Parking or storage of recreational vehicles shall not be
                   used for living, sleeping, housekeeping, storage or business purposes.
RECYCLING CENTER   A facility engaged solely in the storage, processing, resale or reuse of recyclable and
                   recovered materials.
REDEVELOPMENT      Installation of any improvements, new construction or reconstruction on a lot or site
                   that has pre-existing uses.
REFUSE COLLECTION  A metal or plastic container used for the collection and temporary storage of refuse or
CONTAINER          waste for pickup by the town or a solid waste management contractor.
REGISTER OF DEEDS  The County Register of Deeds.
REMEDY             The manner in which a right or law is enforced or satisfied when a violation of the UDO
                   or related law has occurred.
RENTAL
MANUFACTURED/MOB   Manufactured/mobile homes that are available on a rental or lease basis.
ILE HOMES
                   An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of repair services for electronics,
                   bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns, canvas products, appliances and office equipment,
REPAIR SERVICE     including: tailor; locksmith; and upholsterer. Repair establishments do not include
                   outdoor storage of goods, materials or equipment. Repair of cars, trucks or similar heavy
                   equipment is a vehicle-related establishment.
REQUIRED LANDSCAPE An area required to be planted with trees, shrubs or ground cover as required by §
AREA               650, Landscaping.
RESERVATION        An obligation, shown on a subdivision or site plan, to keep land free from development
                   and available for public acquisition for a stated period of time.
                   Buildings for residence such as attached and detached single-family dwellings, apartment
RESIDENTIAL        complexes, condominiums, townhouses, cottages and the like and their associated
DEVELOPMENT        outbuildings, such as garages, storage buildings, gazebos and the like, and customary
                   home occupations.
                   An establishment where meals or prepared food, including beverages and confections, are
RESTAURANT INDOOR  served to customers for consumption on or off the premises. Seating for patrons consuming
AND/OR OUTDOOR     products on-site are located either indoors or outdoors, and the use does not provide
SEATING            drive-through service. Such uses may include a bar or cocktail lounge as an accessory
                   use.
                   An establishment where meals or prepared food, including beverages and confections, are
RESTAURANT WITH    prepared and made available to customers for on-site or off-site consumption. Seating for
DRIVE-THROUGH/DRI  on-site consumption of products may be located either indoors or outdoors. The use also
VE-UP SERVICE      includes a window intended to serve patrons who do not leave their vehicles to order,
                   receive and consume order products. Such uses typically do not include a bar or cocktail
                   lounge.
RETAINING WALL     A structure, either masonry, metal or treated wood, designed to prevent the lateral
                   displacement of soil, rock, fill or other similar material.
                   An establishment that sells goods directly to the consumer, where such goods are
                   available for immediate purchase and removal by the purchaser. Examples include stores
                   selling, leasing or renting consumer, home and business goods, whether new or used,
                   including art and art supply stores, audio/video stores, bicycle sales, book stores,
RETAIL USE         clothing stores, department stores, dry good sales, electronic equipment stores, fabric
                   shops, furniture stores, florist shops, garden supply centers, gift shops, grocery
                   stores, hardware stores, stores that sell household products, jewelry stores, office
                   supply stores, pet and pet supply stores and similar uses. Accessory uses may include
                   storage of products for sale, offices, concessions, seating areas, areas for testing of
                   products prior to purchase and provision of product-related service or repair.
RETENTION POND     A stormwater control measure consisting of a depression in the land that retains
                   stormwater flow for gradual release into the surrounding soil.
                   A plan depicting the re-establishment or replanting of required vegetation or landscaping
REVEGETATION PLAN  material on a lot or site where clearing has taken place in violation of this ordinance
                   or a condition of approval.
                   A town official, appointed board or elected body charged with review and decision-making
REVIEW AUTHORITY   responsibilities for certain types of development applications required by this
                   ordinance.
                   An amendment to this UDO for the purpose of changing the zoning district that is applied
                   to a specified property or properties. The term also includes: (i) the initial
                   application of zoning when land is added to the territorial jurisdiction of the town; and
REZONING OR ZONING (ii) the application of an overlay zoning district. The term does not include: (i) the
MAP AMENDMENT      initial adoption of a zoning map by a local government; (ii) the repeal of a zoning map
                   and readoption of a new zoning map for the entire planning jurisdiction; or (iii)
                   updating the zoning map to incorporate amendments to the names of zoning districts made
                   by zoning text amendments where there are no changes in the boundaries of the zoning
                   district or land uses permitted in the districts(s).
RIDING STABLE      A building or structure devoted to the care and keeping of horses maintained for personal
                   or recreational purposes.
                   Property located within and adjoining the streets, roads and highways within the town,
RIGHT-OF-WAY       which RIGHTS-OF-WAY are owned by the town or the state or are otherwise maintained by the
                   town or the state.
ROOF FORM          The configuration of the top of a building, including its pitch, amount of overhang,
                   shape, surfacing materials and colors.
ROOF PITCH         The amount of rise or the vertical increase in elevation over the run or the horizontal
                   distance of a roof.
ROOF PLANES        Portions of a roof constructed at different angles to one another.
ROOF RAKE          The portion of a gabled roof that extends past the exterior wall of the building.
ROOF SIGN          A sign erected on or over the roof of a building or a sign that is affixed to a wall or
                   facade where any part of the sign extends above that wall or facade.
                   Simple, small-scale activities (usually requiring only minimal skills or training)
                   associated with regular (daily, weekly, monthly and the like) recurring and preventative
                   upkeep of a building, equipment or machine against normal wear and tear.
                   For the purposes of the telecommunications use-specific standards, ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
ROUTINE            includes cleaning, repair and replacement of existing antennas, wireless support
MAINTENANCE        structures, wireless telecommunications equipment, equipment cabinets, equipment
                   compounds, telecommunications towers, utility poles or other vertical projections used to
                   deliver wireless telecommunications services. Activities that result in larger, taller,
                   more visible, more impactful or additional wireless telecommunications equipment are not
                   considered ROUTINE MAINTENANCE.
S
SALES FLOOR AREA   The gross floor area used for display and sale of merchandise, sales office and other
                   areas available to the public/patron.
                   An establishment where junk, waste, discarded, salvaged or similar materials such as old
                   metals, wood, slash, lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, bagging, cordage, barrels,
                   containers and the like are brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored
                   or handled, including used lumber and building material yards, house wrecking yards,
SALVAGE OR JUNK    heavy equipment wrecking yards and yards or places where salvaged house wrecking or
YARD               structural steel materials are stored, handled and sold. This definition includes
                   automobile wrecking or automobile wrecking yards and establishments for the sale,
                   purchase or storage of second-hand cars, clothing, salvaged machinery, furniture, radios,
                   stoves, refrigerators or similar household goods and appliances, all of which shall be
                   usable, nor shall it apply to the processing of used, discarded or salvaged materials
                   incident to manufacturing activity on the same site where such processing occurs.
SCREENING WALL     A wall, whether part of habitable space or not, that interrupts off-site views into a
                   site.
SECONDARY ENTRANCE An entrance into a building located on a side or rear building facade.
SECTION or §      The symbol § means section.
SECURITY LIGHTING  Exterior illumination of a building, parking area or other site feature for the purposes
                   of security.
                   A storage building or buildings that are divided into sections or compartments for the
SELF-SERVICE       storage of business or personal items on a temporary or long-term basis where all units
STORAGE            typically have individual exterior access. Such uses may also include facilities for
                   outdoor storage.
SETBACK            A required distance from a lot line or development boundary for a principal or accessory
                   building and some required site feature.
SETBACK, INTERIOR  The horizontal distance between the interior lot line or parcel/lot line and any
                   structure on such lot, measured perpendicular to the lot line.
SETBACK, STREET    The horizontal distance between the street right-of-way and any structure on such lot,
                   measured perpendicular to the street lot line.
                   The pruning, cutting or otherwise damaging of the natural form of a tree or shrub,
                   whether a product of plant succession or planted, such that a significant or noticeable
SEVERE PRUNING     portion of the crown system is removed (e.g., 25% of the crown removed from a tree, or
                   the continued cutting/trimming of trees previously pruned illegally, or pruning of trees
                   that must grow naturally to meet the landscaping requirements) and/or if more than one-
                   third of the overall circumference of a tree is exposed by pruning cuts.
                   Any business activity, club or other establishment, within which the exhibition, showing,
                   rental or sale of materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on material
SEXUALLY ORIENTED  depicting, describing or exhibiting specified anatomical areas or relating to specified
BUSINESS           sexual activities is permitted. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall include, but are not
                   limited to, adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
                   theaters and massage parlors. These terms are further defined in this section.
SHADE TREE         See TREE, SHADE.
SHARED USE PATH    A facility designed to meet ADA standards, which may be used by bicyclists, pedestrians
(MULTI-USE TRAIL   and other non-motorized users. The path is separated from the roadway by an open-space or
OR GREENWAY)       a physical barrier or within an independent right-of-way. A rail trail, built within the
                   right-of-way of a former railroad, is a shared use path.
                   A light fixture constructed and installed in such a manner that all light emitted by it,
SHIELDING or       either directly from the lamp (bulb) or a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection
SHIELDED           or refraction from any part of the fixture, is projected below the horizontal plane of
                   the fixture.
                   An integrated group of commercial establishments that is planned, developed, owned and
SHOPPING CENTER    managed as a unit and provides on-site parking facilities sufficient to serve its own
                   parking demands.
SHRUB              A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems emerging from the
                   ground, or small branches near the ground. SHRUBS may be deciduous or evergreen.
SIDEWALK           A paved area running parallel to the street for the purposes of pedestrian travel and to
                   facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and land.
SIGHT DISTANCE     The triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting two points located at designated
TRIANGLE           locations on intersecting right-of-way lines or a right-of-way line and the curb or a
                   driveway.
                   Any words, lettering, numerals, parts of letters or numerals, figures, phrases,
                   sentences, emblems, devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which any message is
                   made known, including any surface, fabric or other material or structure designed to
SIGN               carry such devices that are used to designate or attract attention to an individual, a
                   firm, an event, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business or a commodity or
                   product that are exposed to public view. The definition of a SIGN does not include flags,
                   badges or insignias of any governmental unit.
SIGN CABINET       A metal enclosure housing sign face displays and methods of internal illumination, when
                   provided.
SIGN, CHANGEABLE   A sign with a portion of the face area that accommodates the regular or occasional manual
COPY               modification to the message or copy.
                   A wall or ground sign, or portion thereof, that displays electronic, non-pictorial or
SIGN, ELECTRONIC   text information that may or may not change. Sign content is displayed by light emitting
MESSAGE BOARD      diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination devices arranged in a
                   matrix within the display area. Electronic message boards (“EMBs”) may or may not display
                   animation or imagery that appears to move.
SIGN FACE AREA     The portion of sign that contains the message being conveyed.
SIGN, FENCE WRAP   A temporary sign affixed to fencing surrounding an active construction site.
SIGN, FLASHING     A sign with a message that is intermittently on and off or supplemented with lights that
                   turn on and off in rapid succession. See ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGN.
SIGN, GOVERNMENT   Any temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained for any government purposes.
SIGN HEIGHT        The height to the tallest point of a sign structure.
SIGN, INFLATABLE   A hollow sign that is intended to expand as air is pumped inside of it. INFLATABLE SIGNS
                   are tethered to the ground or some other structure.
                   Any sign, other than a pylon sign, which is attached directly to the ground by means of a
                   supporting system comprised of a solid pedestal, or other bracing system where there is
                   no open space between the bottom of the sign face area and the ground. MONUMENT SIGNS are
SIGN, MONUMENT     configured so that the base of the sign support structure is at least as wide as the sign
(GROUND)           face area. Any sign with an opening between the bottom of the sign’s face area and ground
                   or where the sign face area is wider than the sign support structure shall be considered
                   as a pylon or “freestanding” sign. MONUMENT SIGNS are not mounted to a building wall, and
                   are not located within a street right-of-way.
                   A sign that moves or has moving parts, including, but not limited to, the sign face area,
SIGN, MOVING       the sign support structure or some other element of the sign. Flags and banners are not
                   considered moving signs. See ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD SIGN.
                   Any sign that advocates for a particular political candidate, party, position or
SIGN, POLITICAL    political action that is made available for view by the public before and during the
                   portion of a calendar year when elections are underway as described in G.S. § 136-32.
                   POLITICAL SIGNS are also referred to as CAMPAIGN SIGNS or ELECTION SIGNS.
                   A pedestrian-oriented movable sign that sits on the grade located proximate to the
                   primary entrance of the nonresidential or mixed use being advertised. PORTABLE SIGNS are
SIGN, PORTABLE     also referred to as A FRAME SIGNS or BOARD SIGNS. The sign shall be self- supporting and
                   only visible during operating hours. PORTABLE SIGNS are configured with a broader base
                   than a top or are equipped with supports to ensure they remain stable in normal wind
                   conditions.
                   Any sign that projects outward from a building’s exterior wall where the sign face area
SIGN, PROJECTING   is not parallel to the building wall upon which it is mounted. PROJECTING SIGNS are also
                   referred to as “marquee” signs. Signs mounted to a building wall with sign face areas
                   that are parallel to the building wall are considered “wall” signs.
SIGN, PYLON        A sign which is placed on or anchored in the ground with one or more supports that are
(FREESTANDING)     not part of a building or other structure and with open space between the bottom of the
                   sign face area and the grade beneath it.
                   A ground sign located at the entrance to a subdivision consisting of two or more lots.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION  SUBDIVISION SIGNS shall be located outside all street rights-of-way and shall not be
                   located on a lot with a principal building.
SIGN SUPPORT       The framework and structural support for a sign.
STRUCTURE
SIGN, TEMPORARY    A sign that be easily moved from one location to another.
SIGN, TRAFFIC      Signage devoted to warning motorists, pedestrians or bicyclists of a potential traffic
WARNING            hazard or other danger.
                   Any sign, other than a projecting sign, which is mounted to or painted on an exterior
SIGN, WALL         building wall. WALL SIGNS have only one sign face and are configured to be parallel to
                   the building wall upon which they are located. Signs mounted perpendicular to a wall are
                   “projecting” signs. Signs visible through a window are “window” signs.
                   A sign affixed to or visible through the surface of a window or glass door that is
                   intended to be visible to the public from outside the building. Signs painted on glass
SIGN, WINDOW       and etched or frosted glass that includes text or symbols shall be considered as a WINDOW
                   SIGN. Signs not visible from off-site areas are exempted from these standards. Signs
                   mounted to a building’s exterior wall are “wall” signs.
SIGNIFICANT TREE   Overstory trees of eight inches or more in diameter at breast height (DBH) and understory
(S)                trees of two inches or greater DBH are “significant.”
                   A dwelling containing one principal dwelling unit meeting the minimum size requirements
                   in the State Building Code that is occupied by one family and that is not physically
SINGLE-FAMILY      attached to any other principal structure on an individual lot. For regulatory purposes,
DETACHED DWELLING  this term does not include manufactured dwellings, mobile homes or recreational vehicles.
                   An accessory dwelling unit may be within, attached to or on the same lot as a SINGLE-
                   FAMILY DETACHED HOME.
                   A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship between lot lines and the
                   existing or proposed uses, buildings or structures on the lot. The SITE PLAN may include
                   site-specific details such as building areas, building height and floor area, setbacks
                   from lot lines and street rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and
                   locations, parking, access points, roads and stormwater control facilities that are
SITE PLAN          depicted to show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
                   applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site plan approval based solely
                   upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision and a site plan
                   approval based in whole or in part upon the application of standards involving judgment
                   and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision. A SITE PLAN may also be approved as part of
                   a conditional zoning or other decision.
                   The process whereby the town review agents review plans of a development proposal which
                   is a permitted use to ensure that it complies with applicable development regulations.
SITE PLAN REVIEW   Review agents may include county building inspections, county environmental health, the
                   Fire Chief, county emergency management services, the State Department of Transportation,
                   the Town Planner and town and/or county public utilities.
                   May be in the form of, but not be limited to, any of the following approved: a planned
                   development master plan; a major subdivision final plat; a preliminary or general
                   development plan; or a special use permit. Unless otherwise expressly provided by this
                   ordinance such a plan shall include: the approximate boundaries of the site; significant
SITE-SPECIFIC      topographical and other natural features affecting development
VESTING PLAN       of the site; the approximate location on the site of the proposed buildings, structures
                   and other improvements; the approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed
                   buildings and other structures; and the approximate location of all existing and proposed
                   infrastructure on the site, including water, sewer, roads, bicycle facilities and
                   pedestrian walkways.
SLATS, FENCE       Thin strips of wood, plastic or other material woven between the components of a chain-
                   link style fence or gate.
SMALL-TOWN         The sum or combined effect of the attributes and assets that make the town unique and
CHARACTER          that establish the town’s “sense of place.” Attributes include the resident population,
                   local institutions, visual characteristics, natural features and shared history.
                   A wireless telecommunications facility consisting of an antenna and associated wireless
                   telecommunications equipment installed on a utility pole, public utility pole, building
SMALL WIRELESS     or other vertical projection not specifically intended for the accommodation of wireless
FACILITY           telecommunications facilities (e.g., a traffic signal mast arm, a light standard, sign
                   pole and the like) that does not exceed the maximum size requirements for such facilities
                   as listed in G.S. § 160D-931(18).
SMOOTH-FACED       Concrete blocks that do not include adornment or any surface relief.
CONCRETE BLOCK
SOFFIT             The exterior material mounted to the underside of the roof rafters that project past the
                   edge of an exterior building wall.
                   A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for which the primary purpose is
                   to transform solar radiant energy into thermal, mechanical, chemical or electrical
SOLAR COLLECTOR    energy. The device may be roof-mounted or ground-mounted as an accessory use in all
                   zoning districts and in order to qualify as an accessory use, the SOLAR COLLECTOR(S)
                   shall be designed to produce no more than 150% of the on-site use’s energy consumption
                   per billing period.
                   A solar collection system that generates electricity from sunlight to a wholesale
                   electricity market through a regional transmission organization and an inter-connection
                   with the local utility power grid and/or for direct distribution to more than one
SOLAR ENERGY       property or consumer as a commercial venture. Solar farms shall consist of a minimum of
CONVERSION, MAJOR  three individual photovoltaic modules (solar panels), which are an assembly of solar
                   cells to generate electricity. Solar facilities constructed only for the production of
                   electricity dedicated to another facility collocated at the same site, or a solar
                   facility which is clearly a subordinate accessory land use, shall not be subject to the
                   special use permit requirements.
                   A system consisting of solar panels, modules and related equipment (e.g., heat exchanger,
                   pipes, inverter, wiring, storage) that collects solar radiation and transfers it as heat
SOLAR ENERGY       to a carrier fluid for use in hot water heating or space heating
SYSTEM (SMALL      and cooling, and/or that collects solar energy and converts it into electricity. As an
SCALE)             accessory use, a SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM is designed to primarily meet on-site demands (but
                   may include transfer of excess electricity to an electric utility grid) and components
                   are typically mounted on the roof(s) of principal or accessory structures, but may be
                   mounted on other parts of structures, or on the ground.
                   Any debris or refuse, including, but not limited to, metals, plastics, appliances,
SOLID WASTE        construction debris, paper, household trash, tires, land clearing debris, inert debris,
                   junk and inoperable vehicles and other waste.
                   A business establishment which people visit for professionally administered personal care
SPA, DAY OR        treatments, including, but not limited to, massages, facials, waxing, skin exfoliations,
MEDICAL            manicures, pedicures and other body treatments. Such uses may include a retail cosmetic
                   medical operation that operates under the supervision of a licensed healthcare
                   professional and offers nonsurgical cosmetic “medical” treatments.
                   Temporary activities or events conducted by civic, philanthropic, educational or
                   religious organizations, or activities of a business or organization that are not part of
SPECIAL EVENT      its daily activities and are open to the public. Such activities include, but are not
                   limited to, closeout sales, grand openings, fundraising or membership drives, carnivals,
                   fairs, circuses and tent revivals.
                   A use of land, buildings or structures that is identified in this ordinance as a use
SPECIAL USE        that, because of its inherent nature, extent and external effects, requires special care
                   in the control of its location, design and methods of operation in order to ensure
                   protection of the community-wide public health, safety and welfare.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT A permit issued by the Board of Commissioners following notice and a quasi-judicial
                   hearing authorizing the development of a parcel/lot for a special use.
SPECIFIED          Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and
ANATOMICAL AREAS   female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
                   (1) Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
SPECIFIED SEXUAL   (2) Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy; or
ACTIVITIES         (3) Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks or
                   female breasts.
STABLE, RIDING     See RIDING STABLE.
STATE              The State of North Carolina.
STOP WORK ORDER    An order issued by the town to a landowner or developer to cease and desist all land-
                   disturbing or development activity on a site pending resolution of a problem or conflict.
STORAGE OF
UNLICENSED OR      The retention of one or more automobiles, trucks, trailers or other motor vehicle that
INOPERABLE         does not include a lawful license plate or that is no longer capable of locomotion on its
VEHICLES OR        own.
TRAILERS
STORMWATER CONTROL A physical device, site feature or construction technique intended to eliminate or reduce
MEASURE            contact or exposure of pollutants to stormwater or remove pollutants from stormwater
                   prior to discharge from the measure.
                   The term STREET has the following classifications:
                   (1) ALLEY. A public vehicular way providing service access along rear or side property
                   lines of lots which are also served by one of the other listed street types.
                   (2) CLEAR ZONE. The unobstructed, relatively flat area bordering the edge of payment that
                   allows a driver to stop safely or regain control of a vehicle that leaves the roadway.
                   The CLEAR ZONE may consist of a shoulder, recoverable slope or a clear run-out area. The
                   desired minimum width of a CLEAR ZONE is dependent upon traffic volumes and speeds and on
                   the roadside geometry.
                   (3) COLLECTOR. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic between residential
                   streets, culs-de-sac and major and minor thoroughfares, but that may also provide direct
                   access to abutting properties. It is designed to carry more than 3,500 but less than
                   6,000 trips per day. Typically, a COLLECTOR is able to serve, directly or indirectly,
                   between 350 and 600 dwelling units.
                   (4) CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having one end open to traffic and the other permanently
                   terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
                   (5) FRONTAGE. A street that is parallel and adjacent to a major or minor thoroughfare,
                   which provides access to abutting properties, protection from through traffic and control
                   of access to the major or minor thoroughfare.
STREET             (6) LOCAL. A street whose principal function is provide access to adjacent properties.
                   They are intended to accommodate land parcel ingress and egress. Through-traffic movement
                   is difficult and discouraged by traffic controls and street design. Examples of LOCAL
                   roads include streets internal to subdivisions and sparsely developed rural areas.
                   (7) PRIVATE. A street or road that is not dedicated as a public right-of-way, which is
                   privately maintained by a homeowners’ association or a road maintenance agreement and is
                   not taken over for maintenance by NCDOT and requires a subdivision streets disclosure
                   statement in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
                   (8) PUBLIC. A street or road that is dedicated as a public right-of-way, which is
                   accepted and taken over for maintenance by NCDOT or the town.
                   (9) THOROUGHFARE, MAJOR. A street serving the principal network for high volumes of
                   traffic or high-speed traffic. This street type consists of at least two travel lanes in
                   each direction. A MAJOR THOROUGHFARE shall be designated where the anticipated average
                   daily volume exceeds 10,000 vehicles. Residences shall not have access to a MAJOR
                   THOROUGHFARE.
                   (10) THOROUGHFARE, MINOR. A street designed primarily to collect and distribute traffic
                   between the local street network and major thoroughfares. This street type generally
                   consists of more than one travel lane in each direction. A MINOR THOROUGHFARE shall be
                   designated where the anticipated average daily volume ranges exceeding 6,000 vehicles but
                   is less than 10,000 vehicles. Residences should not have access to a MINOR THOROUGHFARE.
                   The five street classifications for the town are:
                   (1) ARTERIAL. Streets that function primarily to serve through-traffic movement. Limited
                   land-access service may be accommodated.
                   Traffic controls and street design are intended to provide efficient through-traffic
                   movement. All United Statesand some state numbered highways are examples of ARTERIAL
                   STREETS.
                   (2) COLLECTOR. Streets that penetrate areas, neighborhoods, public service areas and
                   districts. They are intended to provide both through-traffic and land-access services in
STREET             relatively equal proportions, often linking the local street system to the arterial
CLASSIFICATIONS    street system. Examples of a COLLECTOR STREET include some state and S.R. numbered
                   streets.
                   (3) LOCAL. Streets that primarily serve land-access functions. They are intended to
                   accommodate land parcel ingress and egress. Through-traffic movement is difficult and
                   discouraged by traffic controls and street design. Examples of a LOCAL STREET include
                   streets internal to subdivisions and rural areas.
                   (4) PUBLIC. A street owned by the State Department of Transportation or the town.
                   (5) PRIVATE. A street owned by a non-governmental person, including, but not limited to,
                   corporations, partnerships, individuals and homeowners’ associations.
STREET
INTERSECTION       The portion of a street proximate to an intersection.
APPROACH
STREET TO A        A street intersection that is not restricted to emergency vehicles only and allows full
COLLECTOR STREET   turning movements.
STREETSCAPE BUFFER Landscaping provided on individual lots abutting arterial and collector streets but
                   located outside the street right-of-way.
STRUCTURAL         Any change, except for regular repair or replacement, in the supporting members of a
ALTERATION         structure, such as, but not limited to, bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURAL SOIL    A planting medium that can be compacted to pavement design and installation requirements
                   while permitting root growth.
STRUCTURE          Anything constructed or erected, including, but not limited to, buildings, which requires
                   location on the land or attachment to something having permanent location on the land.
STRUCTURE,         A structure, or where the context so indicates, a group of structures in or which is
PRINCIPAL          conducted the principal use of the lot on which such structure is located.
SUBDIVIDER         Any person who subdivides or develops any land deemed to be a subdivision as defined in
                   this section.
                   Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more lots, building sites or other
                   divisions for the purpose of sale or building development, whether immediate or future.
                   It includes any division of land involving the dedication of a new street or change in
                   existing streets. The following divisions of land are not included in this definition and
                   are not subject to this ordinance:
                   (1) The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided and recorded
                   lots, where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are equal to
                   or exceed the standards set forth in this ordinance, and the minimum gross lot size,
                   minimum lot width and minimum street frontage standards of this ordinance;
                   (2) The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres in area, where no public
                   street right-of-way dedication or opening of streets is involved;
                   (3) The public acquisition, by purchase, of strips of land for the purpose of widening or
                   opening of streets;
SUBDIVISION        (4) The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire land area is no greater than
                   two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-way dedication is
                   involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards set forth in
                   this ordinance; and
                   (5) The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms of a probated will
                   or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Chapter 29.
                   In subsection (1) of this definition, the phrase “previously subdivided and recorded”
                   means under a recorded plat or other instrument of transfer containing a metes and bounds
                   description if lots were created prior to the existence of applicable subdivision
                   regulations, or under a validly approved and recorded plat if such lots were created
                   after the existence of applicable subdivision regulations. In subsection (2) of this
                   definition, the phrase “where no street right- of-way dedication is involved” means that
                   adequate access to such lot is provided by an approved existing street (public or
                   private).
                   The subdivision of an existing development on a parcel/lot or recorded parcel that
                   consists of institutional, industrial, commercial and/or office uses. Such a subdivision
                   would create two or more individual lots plus land developed and designated for the
                   common use and benefit of the occupants/owners of the individual commercial subdivision
                   lots, provided:
SUBDIVISION,       (1) An entity is designated to be legally responsible for maintenance and control of the
COMMERCIAL         common land areas;
                   (2) The property has an approved site plan, valid for the development, prior to
                   application for commercial subdivision;
                   (3) All parking areas, drive aisles and open space, if applicable, shall be the common
                   land area; and
                   (4) The individual lots within a COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISION shall meet the lot design
                   standards of this ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR Any subdivision creating five or more lots.
                   A subdivision of a parent parcel, creating four lots or less, that:
                   (1) Does not involve any new dedication of public right-of-way to give access to interior
                   lots or parcels;
SUBDIVISION, MINOR (2) Does not involve the extension of public water or sanitary sewage lines;
                   (3) Will not adversely affect the development of the remainder of the parcel or of
                   adjoining property; and
                   (4) Will not create any new or residual parcels which do not satisfy the requirements of
                   this ordinance or other applicable local and state controls.
                   The collocation of antenna and related wireless telecommunications equipment on an
                   existing telecommunications tower that necessitates replacement of the existing tower,
                   structural additions to the existing tower that increase its height or the length of
                   protrusions from the tower, or increases in the size of the equipment compound by an
SUBSTANTIAL        amount specified in G.S. § 1600-931. Collocations requiring structural modifications are
MODIFICATION       reviewed and decided in accordance with the procedures for a major collocation.
                   Collocations involving changes to an existing telecommunications tower or equipment
                   compound beyond those identified as SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATIONS in G.S. § 1600-931 are
                   reviewed and decided in accordance with the procedures for a major telecommunications
                   tower.
SWIMMING POOL/HOT  An above- or below-ground structure that is filled with water and used for swimming or
TUB                relaxing.
T
                   An establishment whose principle business activity, either in terms of operation or as
                   held out to the public, is the practice of one or more of the following:
TATTOO AND         (1) Placing of designs, letters, figures, symbols or other marks upon or under the skin
PIERCING           of any person, using ink or other substances that result in the permanent coloration of
ESTABLISHMENT      the skin by means of the use of needles or other instruments designed to contact or
                   puncture the skin; or
                   (2) Performance of body modification, including puncturing or cutting a part of the human
                   body so as to create an opening in which jewelry may be worn.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS See WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
TOWER
                   A telecommunications tower and associated wireless telecommunications equipment that is
TELECOMMUNICATIONS integrated as an architectural feature into an existing structure (such as a steeple,
TOWER, CONCEALED   bell tower, clock tower, silo and the like) or that is designed to conceal the presence
                   of the tower, antennas and related wireless telecommunications equipment in a manner so
                   that the purpose of the tower is obscured. Sometimes called a stealth tower.
                   The construction or installation of a new telecommunications tower with a height of 30
TELECOMMUNICATIONS feet or more above the adjacent pre-construction grade and associated equipment,
TOWER, MAJOR       including the equipment compound, access, electrical service and other related
                   facilities. This definition does not include construction of a small wireless facility,
                   as defined in G.S. § 170D-931(18)).
TELECOMMUNICATIONS The construction or installation of a new telecommunications tower with a height of less
TOWER, MINOR       than 30 feet above the adjacent preconstruction grade or that meets the definition of a
                   concealed telecommunications tower.
TEMPORARY DWELLING An emergency shelter or other structure established to serve as a temporary domicile
                   while an existing principal residence is constructed, repaired or located.
TEMPORARY REAL     A temporary commercial establishment, typically associated with a residential subdivision
ESTATE OFFICE      or building that serves as a base of operations for persons selling real estate or for
                   potential buyers to inspect model dwelling units.
TEMPORARY WIRELESS A portable, self-contained wireless facility that provides wireless telecommunications
FACILITY           services on a temporary or emergency basis. A TEMPORARY WIRELESS FACILITY may include a
                   generator to provide power to the facility.
                   The maximum rate of rainfall of a duration equivalent to the time of concentration
TEN-YEAR STORM or  expected, on the average, once in every ten years. TEN-YEAR STORM intensities are
TEN-YEAR STORM     estimated by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Precipitation Frequency
INTENSITY          Data Server (PFDS), which is incorporated herein by reference, including subsequent
                   amendments and additions. It may be accessed at no cost at http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/
                   pfds/.
                   A building, or part thereof, which contains an assembly hall with or without stage which
                   may be equipped with curtains and permanent stage scenery or mechanical equipment
THEATER            adaptable to the showing of plays, operas, motion pictures, performances, spectacles and
                   similar forms of entertainment. THEATERS that also serve meals at tables prior to or
                   during a performance are specialty eating establishments.
THOROUGHFARE       A street designated as a thoroughfare street in the town’s adopted policy guidance, the
STREET             applicable comprehensive transportation plan, or by the NCDOT.
TOOL/STORAGE SHED  An accessory structure with or without electricity used for the keeping of tools and
                   equipment or general storage purposes.
TOWN               The Town of Oakboro, North Carolina.
                   A dwelling unit that is physically attached to one or more other dwelling units, each on
TOWNHOUSE          its own lot. Individual lots may or may not be surrounded by a larger tract that
                   incorporates shared parking, recreation features or access. The larger tract may or may
                   not be owned in common by the landowners of individual lots.
TOWN PLANNER       The employee designated by the Town Administrator in charge of the town’s planning,
                   zoning and subdivision functions.
TOWN RIGHT-OF-WAY  A right-of-way owned, leased or operated by the town, including any public street or
                   alley that is not part of the state highway system.
TOWN UTILITY POLE  A pole owned by the town that provides lighting, traffic control, utilities or a similar
                   function.
                   Any substance or combination of substances (including disease causing agents) which after
                   discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation or assimilation into any organism,
                   either directly from the environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has
TOXIC SUBSTANCE    the potential to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic
                   mutations, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
                   reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their off spring or
                   other adverse health effects.
TRANSFER STATION   See PUBLIC CONVENIENCE CENTER/TRANSFER STATION.
                   Any vehicle, house car, camp car or any portable or moveable vehicle on wheels, skids,
TRAVEL TRAILER     rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any other means, which is used
                   or designed to be used for residential living, sleeping, commercial or utility purposes,
                   but not including those vehicles primarily designed for the transportation of goods.
TREE CANOPY        The layer of vegetation formed by the crowns of mature trees.
TREE, CANOPY       A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 40 feet or more with a
                   minimum mature crown width of 30 feet.
TREE, EVERGREEN    A woody plant with one or more stems that does not lose the majority of its leaves during
                   winter or dormancy.
TREE, HARDWOOD     A deciduous tree with broad leaves that produces fruit or a nut and goes dormant during
                   winter months.
                   A tree that is present prior to the commencement of development or land disturbance that
TREE, PROTECTED    is required or intended to remain after completion of development or land-disturbing
                   activities.
TREE PROTECTION    The portion of a lot or site with existing trees located inside tree protection fencing.
AREA
TREE PROTECTION    Fencing or other barrier provided to protect trees to be retained from damage or
FENCING            encroachment during the development process.
TREE, SHADE        A tree with a crown that provides shade to the surface area within a parking lot and
                   associated parking spaces.
TREE TOPPING       The removal of the central leader and primary upper branches of a tree.
TREE, UNDERSTORY   A species of tree which normally grows to a mature height of 15 to 35 feet.
TRELLIS            A framework of light wooden or metal bars, chiefly used as a support for fruit trees or
                   climbing plants.
TRUCK OR FREIGHT   A use where trucks, trailers and cargo are stored, where loading and unloading is carried
TERMINAL           on regularly, and where minor maintenance of these types of vehicles is performed.
U
UDO                The Town of Oakboro Unified Development Ordinance.
UNDERGROUND        A container used for the storage of gas, liquid, powder or other substance that is all or
STORAGE TANK       partially below grade. Pipes, pumping equipment and ventilation features are considered
                   part of an underground storage tank.
UNDERSTORY TREE    See TREE, UNDERSTORY.
UNDEVELOPED LAND   A parcel/lot on which no residential, commercial, office or industrial activity is taking
                   place.
                   A portion of an urban or metropolitan area that is significantly warmer than its
URBAN HEAT ISLAND  surroundings due to additional paving, building mass and lack of shade. The temperature
                   difference usually is larger at night than during the day and is most apparent when winds
                   are weak.
                   A parcel or parcels of land or an area of water as a combination of both land and water
                   and designed for the recreational use and enjoyment of residents of the proposed
                   development, not including streets or off-street parking areas. Not more than one half of
                   the required USABLE OPEN SPACE may be areas covered by water. Usable open space shall be
                   substantially free of structures but may contain such improvements as are appropriate for
                   the benefit of residents. A maximum of 5% of the area designated as USABLE OPEN SPACE may
USABLE OPEN SPACE  be covered by structures clearly ancillary to the recreational use of the space. Except
                   for such structures, all USABLE OPEN SPACE shall be unobstructed except for plants, lawn
                   furniture, swimming pools, terraces, walkways, play equipment and the like, so arranged
                   to provide for the free movement of the people within the space. No portion of any such
                   USABLE OPEN SPACE shall be located in any required yard area adjacent to a public street.
                   Parking areas, vehicle drives and storage areas shall not be included in the calculation
                   of USABLE OPEN SPACE.
USE                The specific activity or function for which land, a building or a structure is
                   designated, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
USE, SPECIAL       A use permitted on a parcel/lot only after a special use permit has been issued by Town
                   Board of Commissioners following notice and a quasi-judicial hearing.
                   Infrastructure services providing regional or community-wide service that normally entail
UTILITY, MAJOR     the construction of new buildings or structures such as water towers, waste treatment
                   plants, potable water treatment plants, natural gas facilities and solid waste
                   facilities.
                   Infrastructure services that need to be located in or near the neighborhood or use type
                   where the service is provided. Examples of MINOR UTILITIES include water and sewage pump
UTILITY, MINOR     stations, stormwater retention and detention facilities, telephone exchanges, electrical
                   substations and surface transportation stops such as bus stops and park-and-ride
                   facilities.
                   A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines, cables, wires, lighting
UTILITY POLE       facilities or small wireless facilities for telephone, cable television, electricity,
                   lighting or wireless services.
UTILITY, PUBLIC    See PUBLIC UTILITY.
V
VARIANCE           A relaxation of the strict terms of a specific provision of this ordinance authorized by
                   the Board of Adjustment following notice and a quasi-judicial hearing.
VEGETATIVE COVER   The presence of vegetation (whether tree, shrubs or ground cover) in a particular
                   location.
VEHICULAR USE AREA An off-street parking space or parking lot along with associated drive aisles and means
                   on ingress or egress.
                   The organization of an individual building facade into a base, middle and cap
VERTICAL FACADE    configuration where there are discernable differences in exterior materials, building
MODULATION         wall planes or architectural detailing along the facade from the grade to the top of the
                   building.
                   A facility for the care and treatment of animals, including household pets and larger
VETERINARY CLINIC  domesticated animals. Such facilities may be entirely indoors or may have both indoor and
                   outdoor components.
VIOLATION          A breach, infringement or transgression of a law or requirement in this ordinance or a
                   permit or other development approval.
VISUALLY           Glass or glazing that does not obstruct the view into a structure.
TRANSPARENT
W
WALL, BUILDING     The entire surface area, including windows and doors, of an exterior wall of a building.
WALL OFFSET        A projection or recess located in or along a building wall.
WALL PACK          An exterior lighting device that is flush-mounted on a vertical wall surface.
WALL, PARAPET      A building facade that rises above the roof level, typically obscuring a gable or flat
                   roof as well as any roof-mounted equipment.
WALL PLANE         The exterior surface of a building wall relative to the lot line it abuts.
WALL PLANE,        The largest portion of a building wall in terms of area on a single building facade that
PRIMARY            maintains a uniform distance from the abutting lot line.
                   An industrial use engaged in distribution of manufactured products, supplies and
WAREHOUSE          equipment. May also include a use engaged in storage of manufactured products, supplies
                   and equipment excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or that
                   present hazards or conditions commonly recognized as offensive.
WATERSHED          the entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific point (e.g., the water
                   supply intake).
WATER TOWER        A water storage tank, a standpipe or an elevated tank situated on a support structure
                   originally constructed for use as a reservoir or facility to store or deliver water.
                   Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in selling merchandise to
WHOLESALE SALES    retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business users; or to
                   other wholesalers. Wholesale establishment does not include contractor’s materials or
                   office or retail sales uses.
WIRELESS SERVICES  Any services, using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi,
                   whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided to the public using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SUPPORT   A new or existing structure, such as a monopole, lattice tower or guyed tower that is
STRUCTURE          designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities. Utility poles are not
                   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
                   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between user equipment
                   and a communications network, including: (i) equipment associated with wireless
                   communications; and (ii) radio transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic
                   cable, regular and backup power supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of
WIRELESS           technological configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term does
TELECOMMUNICATIO   not include any of the following:
NS FACILITY        (a) The structure or improvements on, under, within or adjacent to which the equipment is
                   collocated;
                   (b) Wireline backhaul facilities; or
                   (c) Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or utility poles or
                   town utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
                   associated with a particular antenna.
X
Y
                   An open space on the same lot with a building or group of buildings which open space lies
YARD               between the building or group of buildings and the nearest lot line and is occupied and
                   unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or structures except by permitted
                   accessory buildings or uses.
Z
ZONING COMPLIANCE  A permit issued by the town authorizing the recipient to make use of property in
PERMIT             accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.
 
ARTICLE 11. APPENDIX
DIVISION 1. INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH SKETCH PLANS,
SITE PLANS AND  SUBDIVISIONS
   All sketch plans, site plans and subdivision plats shall be prepared by a
state registered engineer, architect or professional land surveyor, signed and
be sealed by the same, and shall include the following information.
   (A)   Information required for sketch plans, site plans and subdivision
plats. Sketch plan requirements are noted by the initials (SP).
      (1)   Site plans shall include a location map that shows the location of
the project in the broad context of the town or planning jurisdiction.
      (2)   (a)   Development site plans shall be drawn to scale, using such a
scale that all features required to be shown on the plans are readily
discernible.
         (b)   Large developments may require that plans show the development
in sections.
         (c)   The objective may be accomplished by using different plans or
plans drawn to different scales to illustrate different features. Also, an
applicant may use a narrative or master plan to describe and define those site
plan elements that cannot be readily depicted in a graphic format.
      (3)   Development site plans shall show on the first page the following
information:
         (a)   Name of applicant and property owner (SP);
         (b)   Site address and county property identification number (SP);
         (c)   Name of development (if any);
         (d)   North arrow (SP);
         (e)   Legend (SP); and
         (f)   Scale (SP).
      (4)   Existing natural, human-made and legal features:
         (a)   Tree line of wooded areas (SP);
         (b)   Streams, ponds, drainage ditches, swamps, boundaries of
floodways and floodplains. (SP);
         (c)   Existing storm drainage patterns (SP); and
         (d)   Cemeteries (SP).
      Note for subsections (4)(a) through (4)(d) above: Approximate location of
those features within 60 feet of the existing property line(s).
      (5)   Existing human-made features:
         (a)   Public streets, sidewalks and other walkways, all designated by
the type of surface material (SP: approximate location(s));
         (b)   Curbs and gutters, curb inlets and curb cuts and drainage
grates;
         (c)   Stormwater and drainage facilities (SP: approximate location
(s));
         (d)   Underground utility lines, including water, sewer, electric,
telephone, gas and cable;
         (e)   Above-ground utility lines and other utility facilities;
         (f)   Fire hydrants;
         (g)   Buildings, structures (including dimensions) (SP: and uses of
the building(s)); and
         (h)   The location of any areas previously used for landfill or other
waste disposal purposes that are known or reasonably should be known to the
applicant.
      (6)   Existing legal features:
         (a)   Zoning of the subject property and surrounding properties (SP);
         (b)   Property lines of the tract to be developed (with dimensions
identified) (SP);
         (c)   Street right-of-way lines (SP);
         (d)   Utility or other easement lines (SP); and
         (e)   Deed book and page reference demonstrating ownership of
property. If the applicant does not yet own the property, the applicant shall
include a written statement describing the applicant’s legal authority to make
application for the requested permit or conditional zoning.
      (7)   Show all proposed changes in existing natural, human-made and legal
features, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Lot dimensions (SP);
         (b)   The location, dimensions and footprints of all buildings on the
property, including the distances of all buildings from property lines, streets
or street right-of-way lines (subdivisions may show building setback lines)
(SP);
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all recreational areas (SP);
         (d)   The location and dimensions of all areas intended to remain as
usable open space. The plans shall clearly indicate whether such open space
areas are intended to be offered for dedication to public use or to remain
privately owned (SP);
         (e)   Street names (labeled by classification) showing linear feet,
street paving widths and typical street cross-sections;
         (f)   Curbs and gutters (constructed using the same specifications as
used by the State Department of Transportation), curb cuts and drainage grates
as required by town policy;
         (g)   All new proposed storm drainage patterns (SP);
         (h)   Sidewalks and walkways, showing widths and surface material;
         (i)   Bridges;
         (j)   Underground utility lines or easement areas for said lines,
including water, sewer, electric, telephone, gas and cable;
         (k)   Above-ground utility lines and other facilities;
         (l)   Fire hydrants;
         (m)   Vehicle accommodation areas, including parking areas, loading
areas and circulation areas, all designated by the type of surface material and
dimensions of proposed parking spaces. The total number of parking spaces and
the total number of parking spaces for disabled persons (i.e., handicapped
spaces) shall be indicated (SP: approximate);
         (n)   The location and description of all yards, buffers, screening,
landscaping and plantings or devices (i.e., fences, berms and the like)
proposed for compliance. Plans shall label trees and shrubbery by common or
scientific name, show the distance between plants and indicate the height at
the time of planting and expected mature height and width (SP);
         (o)   Proposed phasing, if any. Phasing plans shall provide a
description of the facilities to be built in each phase (SP);
         (p)   Documentation confirming that the applicant has a legally
sufficient interest in the property proposed for development to use it in the
manner requested or is the duly appointed agent of such a person, such as a
deed book and page reference demonstrating ownership of property. If the
applicant does not yet own the property, the applicant shall include a written
statement describing the applicant’s legal authority to make application for
the requested permit;
         (q)   Certifications from the appropriate agencies that all necessary
easements have been provided; and
         (r)   If any street or driveway is proposed to intersect with a state-
maintained road, a copy of the application for driveway approval as required by
the Department of Transportation, Division of Highways Manual on Driveways
Regulation.
   (B)   Additional information required for site plans.
      (1)   Existing topography at ten foot or other appropriate contour
intervals, as approved by the Town Planner;
      (2)   Individual trees eight inches in diameter or more, identified by
common or scientific name;
      (3)   Other individual trees the applicants intend to preserve;
      (4)   Location of exterior light fixtures, with type and intensity of
lighting fixtures sufficiently identified;
      (5)   The proposed use or uses of all land within the subject property
(SP);
      (6)   The scale of buildings relative to abutting property;
      (7)   The total number of residential units and the total square footage
of any nonresidential development (SP);
      (8)   Building elevations for all accessory structures, except for
accessory structures to single-family residences, duplexes and townhouses
approved under the State Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings;
      (9)   All refuse facilities (including dumpsters and their screens),
mechanical equipment and utility equipment;
      (10)   Vehicle accommodation areas, including parking areas, loading
areas and circulation areas, all designated by the type of surface material and
dimensions of proposed parking spaces. The total number of parking spaces and
the total number of parking spaces for disabled persons (i.e., handicapped
spaces) shall be indicated (SP);
      (11)   Building elevations for typical units of new buildings or exterior
remodeling of existing buildings showing building heights, widths and materials
(except single-family, duplex or townhouse buildings approved under the State
Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings) (SP);
      (12)   The location and dimensions, including height, of all signs,
including the distances of all signs from property lines, streets or street
right-of-way lines. If applicable, this information may be included as part of
a sign plan; and
      (13)   Any other facilities to be constructed or otherwise provided as
part of the development.
   (C)   Additional information required only for subdivision plats. The number
of square feet in every lot created by a new subdivision and the total number
of lots created.
   (D)   Number of copies of plans and documents.
      (1)   With respect to all site plans submitted pursuant to this appendix,
the applicant shall submit a minimum of two copies of full-size plans (i.e., 24
inches by 36 inches) and two copies of plans drawn on ledger size paper (11
inches by 17 inches). Other documents required by this appendix shall be
submitted on letter size paper (eight and one-half inches by 11 inches) or
legal-size paper (eight and one-half inches by 14 inches).
      (2)   The applicant shall submit a minimum of two copies of all other
documents required by this appendix.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit all documents in Adobe format or other
software approved by the Town Planner.
DIVISION 2. RECOMMENDED PLANTS LIST
Table 23 - Suggested Plant Materials List - Trees and Shrubs
                                     Growth Rate   Light Needs
Plant Name/Common Name Height Spread S = Slow;     S = Sun;         Comments
                                     M = Moderate; SH = Shade;
                                     R = Rapid     PS = Partial Sun
Table 23 - Suggested Plant Materials List - Trees and Shrubs
                                                                                     Growth    Light
                                                                                     Rate      Needs
                                                                                               S =
                                                                                     S = Slow; Sun;
Plant Name/Common Name                                        Height     Spread      M =       SH =    Comments
                                                                                     Moderate; Shade;
                                                                                     R = Rapid PS =
                                                                                               Partial
                                                                                               Sun
Large Variety Trees (Mature Height: 35 Feet or Greater)
Native Evergreen
Ilex opaca/ American Holly                                    40—60’ 20—30 ’ S         S-SH    Tolerates a variety of conditions, male and American Holly
                                                                                                       female plants needed for fruit, pyramidal form.
Juniperus virginiana/Eastern Red Cedar                        40—50’ 15—25 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, pyramidal form, male and
                                                                                                       female plants needed for fruit.
Magnolia grandiflora/South ern Magnolia                       60—80’ 30—40 ’ R         S-PS    Less shade tolerant with age, attracts wildlife, fragrant spring
                                                                                                       and summer flowers.
Pinus taeda/Loblolly Pine                                     90—120 30—40 ’ R         S       Tolerates flooding and drought, critical to Brown-Headed
                                                                                                       Nuthatch.
Quercus laurifolia or hemisphaerica/ Laurel Oak               60—80’ 30—40 ’ R         S-SH    Shade tolerant, good for moist sites.
Native Deciduous
Acer barbatum or floridanum/South ern Sugar Maple             50—60’ 20—35 ’ M         S-PS    Heat tolerant, dislikes dry, compact soil.
Acer rubrum/Red Maple                                         60—90’ 30—50 ’ R-M       S-SH    Tolerates a variety of conditions, including wet soil, fall
                                                                                                       color.
Acer saccharum/ Sugar Maple                                   90—120 40—60 ’ S         S-PS    Extensive root system, fall color, shade tolerant.
Betula nigra/River Birch                                      60—80’ 30—50 ’ R         S-PS    Lacy texture, tolerates a variety of conditions, including wet
                                                                                                       soil, tends to drop small limbs, cultivars available.
Celtis laevigata/ Southern Hackberry or Sugarberry            70—80’ 30—50 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions.
Cladrastis kentukea/ Yellow-wood                              40—50’ 40—45 ’ M         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, fragrant white blooms in
                                                                                                       alternate years.
Diospyros virginiana/Americ an Persimmon                      30—60’ 20—25 ’ S-M       S-PS    Tolerates dry soil, good fall color, fruit attracts wildlife.
                                                                                                       Separate male and female plants.
Fraxinus pennsylvanica/ Green Ash                             50—120 40—50 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions. Separate male and female
                                                                                                       plants. Many cultivars available.
Gymnocladus diocus/Kentucky Coffee-tree                       60—75’ 40—50 ’ -         S       Tolerant of air pollution and drought, fall color.
Liriodendron tulipifera/Tulip-Tree or Yellow Poplar           90—120 60—80 ’ R         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, drops limbs, best in natural
                                                                                                       areas, host for the state butterfly.
Nyssa sylvatica/ Black Gum                                    50—80’ 30—50 ’ M         S-PS    Fall color, pyramidal when young.
Platanus occidentalis/ Sycamore                               80—120 40—60 ’ R         S-PS    Showy bark, tolerates a variety of conditions but needs water,
                                                                                                       best in natural areas.
Prunus serotina/ Wild Black Cherry                            60—80’ 30—50 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, seeds heavily, best in
                                                                                                       natural areas.
Quercus alba/White Oak                                        80—100 40—60 ’ S-M       S-PS    Sensitive to construction damage, good fall color.
Quercus bicolor/ Swamp White Oak                              50—60’ 50—60 ’ M-R       S       Needs acidic soil, drought resistant, intolerant of salt and air
                                                                                                       pollution.
Quercus coccinea/ Scarlet Oak                                 50—80’ 40—50 ’ R         S       Good fall color, tolerates dry, sandy soil.
Quercus falcata/ Southern Red Oak                             70—80’ 30—40 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates drought.
Quercus imbricaria/ Shingle Oak                               50—60’ 50—60 ’ S-M       S       Tolerates a variety of conditions.
Quercus lyrata/ Overcup Oak                                   35—45’ 35—40 ’ M         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions.
Quercus macrocarpa/Bur Oak                                    60—80’ 60—80 ’ S         S       Tolerant of town conditions.
Quercus nigra/ Water Oak                                      70—90’ 30—50 ’ R         S       May retain some leaves through the winter, tolerates a variety
                                                                                                       of conditions.
Quercus palustris/ Pin Oak                                    60—80’ 40—50 ’ R         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, pyramidal form, good fall
                                                                                                       color.
Quercus phellos/ Willow Oak                                   80—100’40—50 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, golden fall color.
Quercus rubra/Red Oak                                         80—90’ 30—50 ’ R-M       S-PS    Needs moist soils, good fall color.
Quercus shumardii/ Shumard Oak                                90—100 40—50 ’ R-M       S       Tolerates a variety of conditions.
Quercus texana or nuttallii/Nuttall Oak                       60—80’ 30—40 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates poorly drained soils, drought tolerant.
Taxodium distichum/ Bald-cypress                              100—12 030—40 ’ R         S       Pyramidal when young, tolerates wet and dry soils, fall color,
                                                                                                       attractive trunk.
Tilia americana/ Southern Basswood or American Linden         50—70’ 30—45 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates drought and clay soil, intolerant of air pollution,
                                                                                                       consider ‘Redmond’ cultivar.
Non-Native Evergreen
Cedrus deodara/ Deodar Cedar                                  40—70’ 30—40 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates drought and hot, dry summers, likes acidic soil.
Cryptomeria japonica/Japanese Cryptomeria                     50—60’ 25—30 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, pyramidal shape, many
                                                                                                       cultivars available.
Thuja ‘Green Giant’/Green Giant Arborvitae                40—50’ 15—20 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, may need some wind
                                                                                                       protection, bronzes in winter.
Non-Native Deciduous
Acer x freemanii/ Freeman Maple                               Gen.       Gen. 15—40M         S-PS    A hybrid of red maple and silver maple, cultivars vary in size
                                                              40—70’ ’                           and characteristics.
Cercidiphyllum japonicum/Katsura Tree                         40—60’ 20—40 ’ M-R       S       Intolerant of hot, dry sites, fall color.
Ginkgo biloba/ Ginkgo                                         50—80’ 30—40 ’ S         S       Plant male trees to avoid messy, smelly fruit, tolerates a
                                                                                                       variety of conditions, bright yellow fall color.
Metasequoia glyptostroboides/ Dawn Redwood                    70—100 15—25 ’ R         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, tolerates wet soils,
                                                                                                       attractive trunk.
Platanus x acerifolia/London Planetree                        65—80’ 75—10 0’M         S-PS    Good street tree, light brown exfoliating bark.
Quercus robur ‘Fastigata’/Upright English Oak             50—60’ 10—20 ’ S         S       Tolerates drought and air pollution, narrow, upright form.
Sophora japonica or Styphnolobium japonicum/Japane se         50—70’ 50’       M-R       S-PS    Resistant to air pollution and drought, but marginally heat
Scholartree or Japanese Pagodatree                                                                     hardy in Piedmont, North Carolina.
Tilia cordata ‘Greenspire’/ Greenspire Littleleaf Linden  30—40’ 25—35 ’ S-M       S       Piedmont, North Carolina is at southern extreme of range, air
                                                                                                       pollution tolerant, cultivars available.
Tilia tomentosa/ Silver Linden                                40—70’ 25—45 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates drought and air pollution and a variety of soil
                                                                                                       conditions.
Ulmus hybrida/ Hybrid Elm                                     75—125 60—12 0’M-R       S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions; Dutch Elm disease resistant
                                                                                                       varieties available.
Ulmus parvifolia/ Lacebark or Chinese Elm                     40—50’ 40—50 ’ M-R       S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, attractive bark, a tough and
                                                                                                       durable tree.
Zelkova serrata/ Japanese Zelkova                             50—80’ 40—50 ’ M         S-PS    Good street tree; tolerates urban conditions well, cultivars
                                                                                                       available.
Medium Variety Trees (Mature Height: 25 to 35 Feet)
Native Evergreen
Ilex x attenuata ‘Fosteri’/Foster’s Holly               20—30’ 10—20 ’ R         S-PS    Red fruits, male plants not needed for fruiting, best berry
                                                                                                       production in full sun.
Magnolia virginian/ Sweet Bay Magnolia                        20—30’ 10—15 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates some shade, good for wet sites, cultivars provide
                                                                                                       evergreen and deciduous options.
Pinus virginiana ‘Wate’s Golden’/ Wate’s Golden Virgin15—30’ 10—20 ’ S-M       S       Grows in poor soils, turns golden in winter, seeds eaten by
                                                                                                       birds, especially Brown-Headed Nuthatch.
Prunus caroliniana/ Carolina Laurel Cherry                    20—40’ 15—20 ’ M-R       S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions; colonizes.
Native Deciduous
Carpinus caroliniana/ American Hornbeam or Ironwood           20—30’ 20—30 ’ S         S-PS    Does well in moist to wet soil, attractive trunk, interesting
                                                                                                       fruit.
Cercis canadensis/ Eastern Redbud                             20—30’ 25—35 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, many cultivars available,
                                                                                                       early spring purple/pink blooms.
Cornus florida/ Flowering Dogwood                             15—30’ 15—20 ’ S-M       PS      Best in part shade, many cultivars available, flowers in spring,
                                                                                                       fall color and red fruit.
Gleditsia triacanthos var. inermis/ Thornless Honeylocust     30—70’ 30—40 ’ R         S       Range of soil types, drought tolerant.
Halesia tetraptera/ Common Silverbell                         20—40’ 20—35 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, showy white blooms in spring,
                                                                                                       cultivars available.
Ostrya virginiana/ Eastern Hop-hornbeam                       20—30’ 20—30 ’ S         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, interesting fruit.
Oxydendrum arboreum/Sourwood                                  20—30’ 10—15 ’ S         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, white summer flowers, fall
                                                                                                       color, source of sourwood honey.
Non-Native Evergreen
Ilex x ‘Nellie R. Stevens’/Nellie Stevens Holly           30—40’ 10—15 ’ R         S-PS    Red fruit, drought and heat tolerant, male and female plants (I.
                                                                                                       cornuta) needed for best fruiting, also used as a large shrub.
Pinus thunbergii/ Japanese Black Pine                         20’      20’       S-M       S       Select small tree cultivar from among dwarf cultivars, heat and
                                                                                                       drought tolerant.
Non-Native Deciduous
Acer buergerianum/ Trident Maple                              25—35’ 20—30 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions; good fall color.
Acer campestre/ Hedge Maple                                   25—35’ 25—35 ’ S         S       Tolerates drought and air pollution; shallow root system.
Carpinus betulus ‘Fastigata’/Pyramidal European Hornbeam  30—40’ 20—30 ’ S-M       S-PS    Pyramidal when young, tolerates a range of conditions.
Koelreuteria paniculata/ Goldenrain Tree                      20—40’ 15—35 ’ M-R       S-PS    Tolerates drought and air pollution, yellow flowers in June.
Magnolia x soulangiana or soulangeana/Saucer Magnolia         15—25’ 15—25 ’ M         S-PS    Late flowering cultivars avoid frost damage to blooms.
Pistacia chinensis/ Chinese Pistachio                         25—35’ 20—30 ’ M-R       S       Drought tolerant, male and female plants needed for fruit, fall
                                                                                                       color.
Prunus ‘Kwanzan’/ Kwanzan Cherry                          20—30’ 15—25 ’ M         S-PS    Pink blooms in April, may be short-lived, good fall color, no
                                                                                                       fruit.
Prunus ‘Okame’/ Okame Cherry                              15—30’ 20—30 ’ M-R       S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, pink blooms in late winter
                                                                                                       lasting longer than most cherries.
Prunus subhirtella ‘Autumnalis’/Fall Blooming Cherry      20—30’ 15—25 ’ R         S-PS    Flowers best in full sun, flowers both in fall and late winter,
                                                                                                       may be short lived.
Prunus subhirtella ‘Pendula’/Weepin g Cherry              20—40’ 15—30 ’ M         S       Tolerant of heat and clay soil; white to pinkish flowers in
                                                                                                       early spring; relatively long lived.
Prunus x yedoensis/ Yoshino Cherry                            30—40’ 30—50 ’ R         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions, pale pink to white flowers in
                                                                                                       early spring, many cultivars available.
Small Variety Trees (Mature Height: less than 25 Feet)
Native Evergreen
Ilex vomitoria/ Yaupon Holly                                  15—20’ 10—20 ’ S-M       S-SH    Tolerates a variety of conditions, male and female plants needed
                                                                                                       for fruit, many cultivars available in many sizes.
Magnolia grandiflora ‘Little Gem’/Little Gem Magnolia     15—20’ 8—10’   R         S-PS    Dwarf cultivar of Magnolia grandiflora.
                                                                                                       Tolerates wet to dry soils, can colonize, many cultivars
Morella or Myrica cerifera/Wax-myrtle                         10—15’ 8—10’   R         S-PS    available, male and female plants needed for fruit, also can be
                                                                                                       used in shrub form.
Native Deciduous
Aesculus pavia/Red Buckeye                                    10—20’ 10—20 ’ M         S-PS    Especially attracts hummingbirds and pollinators, red flowers in
                                                                                                       spring, leaf scorch may develop in dry soils.
Amelanchier x ‘Autumn Brilliance’/ Autumn Brilliance                                               Tolerates a variety of conditions, rust fungus can attack fruit,
Serviceberry                                                  25—40’ 20—30 ’ S         S-PS    early spring white blooms, fall color, other cultivars
                                                                                                       available.
Chionanthus virginicus/ Fringe-tree or Old Man’s Beard      12—20’ 12—20 ’ S-M       S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, male and female plants needed
                                                                                                       for fruit, fragrant white flowers in spring.
Crataegus viridis ‘Winter King’/Winter King Green Hawthorn15—30’ 10—20 ’ S         S-PS    Drought tolerant, has thorns, other native species available,
                                                                                                       white flowers in spring, fall color, interesting bark.
Non-Native Deciduous
Acer palmatum/ Japanese Maple                                 15—25’ 10—25 ’ S-M       S-PS    Avoid hot, dry and windy sites; many cultivars available.
Chionanthus retusus/ Chinese Fringe-tree                      15—25’ 10—25 ’ M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, showy white flowers in
                                                                                                       spring.
Camus kousa/ Dogwood                                          15—30’ 15—30 ’ S         S-PS    Resistant to anthracnose, white flowers in May, fall color.
Lagerstroemia indica cvs./Crapemyrtle                         15—30’ 6—15’   R         S       Summer blooms, attractive bark, overused, many cultivars
                                                                                                       (including dwarfs) available, do not top.
Magnolia stellata/ Star Magnolia                              10—15’ 6—10’   S-M       S-PS    Blooms best in full sun, late winter white flowers.
Malus hybrida/ Hybrid Crabapple                               15—25’ 10—20 ’ M         S       Plant only disease resistant cultivars, many cultivars
                                                                                                       available, showy spring flowers and fall fruit.
Prunus sargentii/ Sargent Cherry                              20—40’ 20—40 ’ R         S       One of the hardiest cherries; pink flowers; sensitive to air
                                                                                                       pollution; reddish bark.
Prunus serrulata ‘Snowgoose’/ Snowgoose Japanese Cherry   15—25’ 15—20 ’ M         S-PS    White sprung flowers; reddish bark; may be short-lived.
Syringa reticulata/ Japanese Tree Lilac                       20—30’ 15—20 ’ M         S       Tolerates a variety of conditions; creamy white flowers in mid-
                                                                                                       summer.
Evergreen Shrubs and Screening Plants
Native
Ilex opaca/American Holly                                     40—60’ 20—30 ’ S         S-SH    Tolerates a variety of conditions, male and female plants needed
                                                                                                       for fruit, pyramidal form, cultivars available.
Ilex x attenuata ‘Fosteri’/Foster’s Holly               20—30’ 10—20 ’ R         S-PS    Red fruits, male plants not needed for fruiting, best berry
                                                                                                       production in full sun.
Juniperus virginiana/ Eastern Red Cedar                       40—50’ 15—25 ’ S         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, pyramidal form, male and
                                                                                                       female plants needed for fruit.
                                                                                                       Tolerates wet to dry soils, can colonize, many cultivars
Morella or Myrica cerifera/Wax-myrtle                         10—15’ 8—10’   R         S-PS    available, male and female plants needed for fruit, can reach
                                                                                                       small tree size.
Prunus caroliniana/ Carolina Laurel Cherry                    20—40’ 15—20 ’ M-R       S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, colonizes.
Thuja occidentalis/ American Arborvitae                       Var.       Var.        Gen. S    S       Many cultivars in countless shapes and sizes, some tolerate part
                                                                                                       shade, some reach small tree size.
Non-Native
Ilex x ‘Nellie R. Stevens’/Nellie Stevens Holly           30—40’ 10—15 ’ R         S-PS    Red fruit, drought and heat tolerant, male cultivar (l. cornuta)
                                                                                                       needed for best fruiting, also used as a large shrub.
Pinus thunbergii/ Japanese Black Pine                         20’      20’       S-M       S       Select small tree cultivar from among dwarf cultivars, heat and
                                                                                                       drought tolerant.
Landscaping Shrubs (Mature Height 36 Inches or More)
Native Evergreen
Agarista populifolia/ Florida Leucothoe or Agarista           8—12’  8—12’   R         PS      Tolerates a variety of conditions, but prefers moist soil.
Ilex glabra/Inkberry Holly                                    5—9’   5—10’   S-M       S-PS    Drought tolerant but prefers moist soil, many cultivars
                                                                                                       available, male and female plants needed for fruit.
Ilex vomitoria/ Yaupon Holly                                  10—20’ 8—12’   M-R       S-PS    Tolerates wet to dry soils, male and female plants needed for
                                                                                                       fruit, dwarf and other cultivars available.
Illicium floridanum/ Florida Star-anise                       5—8’   6—8’    M         PS-SH   Prefers moist, well-drained soil high in organic matter, many
                                                                                                       cultivars available, showy spring flowers.
Illicium parviflorum/ Yellow Anise-tree                       7—10’  8—10’   M         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, drought tolerant, can
                                                                                                       colonize, some cultivars available.
                                                                                                       Tolerates wet to dry soils, can colonize, many cultivars
Morella or Myrica cerifera/Wax-myrtle                         10—15’ 8—10’   R         S-PS    available, male and female plants needed for fruit, can reach
                                                                                                       small tree size.
Rhododendron catawbiense/ Catawba Rhododendron                6—12’  6—10’   M         PS      Showy flowers, needs excellent drainage and organic soil, many
                                                                                                       cultivars available.
Thuja occidentalis ‘Emerald’/Emerald American Arborvitae  6—10’  3—6’    M         S-PS    Tolerates a range of soils and conditions; good screening plant.
Native Deciduous
Callicarpa americana/American Beautyberry                     3—4’   4—5’    R         S-PS    Prefers moist soil, showy purplish berries in fall.
Calycanthus floridus/ Sweet-shrub or Carolina Allspice        6—9’   6—12’   S-M       S-PS    Tolerates a range of conditions, drought tolerant, fragrant
                                                                                                       maroon flowers in early spring, fall color, cultivars available.
Ceanothus americanus/New Jersey Tea                           3—4’   3—5’    S-M       S-PS    Easy to grow in a wide range of conditions, drought tolerant,
                                                                                                       early summer flowers.
Clethra alnifolia/ Sweet-pepperbush                           4—8’   4—6’    S-M       S-PS    Needs moist soil, fragrant white summer flowers, may colonize,
                                                                                                       fall color.
Fothergilla gardenii/ Witch-alder or Fothergilla              3—5’   3—4’    S         S-PS    Drought tolerant, fall color, may colonize, fragrant white
                                                                                                       spring flowers.
Fothergilla major/ Large Witch-alder                          6—10’  5—9’    S         PS      Drought tolerant, cultivars include ‘Mt. Airy,’ white spring
                                                                                                       flowers.
Hamamelis virginiana/ Witch-hazel                             15—30’ 15—25 ’ S-M       S-PS    Multi-stemmed, yellow fall flowers and leaf color, tolerates
                                                                                                       heavy clay soil.
                                                                                                       Suffers in full sun and with drought, likes moist well-drained
Hydrangea arborescens/Smooth Hydrangea                        3—5’   3—5’    R         PS      soil, attracts bees, prune in early spring, cultivars available,
                                                                                                       including ‘Annabelle,’ long bloom period.
                                                                                                       Somewhat drought tolerant, attractive bark, needs mulch to keep
Hydrangea quercifolia/Oakleaf Hydrangea                       4—8’   3—8’    R         PS-S    roots cool, long bloom period in spring and summer, fall color,
                                                                                                       dwarf cultivars available.
Ilex decidua/ Possum-haw                                      6—7’   6’        M         PS      Prefers moist, well-drained soil, male and female plants needed
                                                                                                       for fruit.
Ilex verticillata/ Winterberry                                6—15’  6—10’   S-M       S-PS    Tolerates a range of conditions, but prefers moist soil, male
                                                                                                       and female plants needed for fruit, dwarf cultivars available.
Itea virginica/ Sweetspire                                    3—6’   4—6’    M         S-PS    Tolerates wide range of moisture, excellent fall color, fragrant
                                                                                                       white spring flowers.
Lindera benzoin/ Spicebush                                    6—12’  6—12’   S-M       S-PS    Prefers moist, well-drained soil, male and female plants needed
                                                                                                       for fruit, fall color, early spring yellowish flowers.
Physocarpus opulifolius/Eastern Ninebark                      5—8’   6—10’   M-R       S-PS    Drought tolerant, tough and durable, white spring flowers,
                                                                                                       attractive bark, dwarf cultivars available.
Rhododendron calendulaceum/ Flame Azalea                      4—8’   8—10’   S         PS      Good for naturalistic landscape, needs some direct sun, orange/
                                                                                                       yellow flowers in late spring, needs well-drained organic soil.
Rhododendron periclymenoides/ Pinxterbloom Azalea             3—6’   4—7’    S         S-PS    Drought tolerant, needs some sun, pink spring flowers, needs
                                                                                                       well-drained organic soil.
Rhododendron viscosum/Swamp Azalea                            2—8’   3—8’    M         PS      Likes moist organic soil, but tolerates some drought, fragrant
                                                                                                       white flowers in early summer.
Sambucus canadensis/American Elderberry                       5—12’  5—12’   R         S       Likes moist soil, may colonize, white summer flowers and dark
                                                                                                       fruit.
Vaccinium arboreum/ Sparkleberry                              10—20’ 10—15 ’ M         S-SH    Tolerates drought, needs multiple genetic strains for fruit set,
                                                                                                       fall color.
Vaccinium stamineum/Deerberry                                 3—5’   3—5’    M         S-PS    Drought tolerant, needs acidic soil, needs multiple genetic
                                                                                                       strains for fruit set.
Vaccinium virgatum or ashei/Rabbiteve Blueberry               8—12’  6—10’   M         S-PS    Drought tolerant, needs acidic soil, needs multiple genetic
                                                                                                       strains for fruit set, fall color, grown for fruit production.
Viburnum acerifolium/ Mapleleaf Viburnum                      4—6’   4—6’    M         S-SH    Tolerates drought, may colonize, needs multiple genetic strains
                                                                                                       for fruit set, white spring flowers, fall color.
                                                                                                       Tolerates drought but prefers moist soil, may colonize, needs
Viburnum dentatum/ Arrow-wood Viburnum                        6—10’  6—15’   M         S-PS    multiple genetic strains for fruit set, white spring flowers,
                                                                                                       fall color, cultivars available.
                                                                                                       Prefers moist to wet soil, needs multiple genetic strains for
Viburnum nudum/ Possumhaw or Southern Wild Raisin             6—10’  6—10’   M         S-PS    fruit set, white spring flowers, fall color, cultivars
                                                                                                       available.
Viburnum prunifolium/ Blackhaw Viburnum                       12—15’ 8—12’   S-M       S-SH    Drought tolerant, needs multiple genetic strains for fruit set,
                                                                                                       white spring flowers, fall color.
Viburnum rafinesqueanum/ Downy Arrow-wood Viburnum            4—6’   4—6’    M         S-PS    Drought tolerant, needs multiple genetic strains for fruit set,
                                                                                                       white spring flowers, fall color.
Viburnum rufidulum/ Southern Black Haw Viburnum               10—20’ 10—15 ’ M         PS      Needs multiple genetic strains for fruit set, white spring
                                                                                                       flowers, fall color.
Non-Native Evergreen
Abelia x grandiflora/ Glossy Abelia                           5—8’   5—8’    M-R       S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, drought tolerant, summer
                                                                                                       flowers, many dwarf cultivars available.
Aucuba japonica/ Aucuba                                       6—10’  4—6’    S         PS-S    Needs winter shade, drought tolerant, many cultivars available.
Barberis julianae/ Wintergreen Barberry                       4—8’   6—8’    S         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, drought tolerant, has spines,
                                                                                                       good barrier plant.
Barberis verruculosa/ Warty Barberry                          3—6’   3—4’    S         S-PS    Tolerant of drought and urban conditions, tolerates a variety of
                                                                                                       soils.
Buxus microphylla/ Littleleaf Boxwood                         2—8’   2—8’    S         S-PS    Many shapes and sizes, var. japonica is often used, generally
                                                                                                       densely branched, leaves may bronze in winter.
Buxus sempervirens/ Common Boxwood                            15—20’ 10—15 ’ S         S-PS    Drought tolerant, protect from wind, many cultivars available.
Camellia japonica/ Camellia                                   8—15’  5—10’   S-M       PS      Excess sun, cold or shade can reduce flowering, many cultivars
                                                                                                       available, blooms in early spring.
Camellia sasanqua/ Sasanqua Camellia                          6—10’  5—7’    M-R       S-PS    Drought tolerant, many cultivars available, blooms in the fall.
Euonymus japonicus/ Japanese Euonymus                         10—15’ 5—6’    R         S-SH    Tolerates drought and variety of soil types, subject to scale
                                                                                                       insects.
                                                                                                       Many cultivars available in varying shapes and sizes, black
Ilex crenata cvs./ Japanese Holly (i.e., Compacta Holly)      4—10’  3—5’    S-M       S-PS    fruit when present, generally hardy, male and female plants
                                                                                                       needed for fruit.
Loropetalum chinensis/ Loropetalum                            6—10’  6—10’   R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, drought tolerant, long spring
                                                                                                       bloom period, dwarf cultivars available.
Osmanthus heterophyllus/Tea Olive                             8—10’  5—10’   S-M       S-PS    Drought and heat tolerant, a good plant for screening, many
                                                                                                       cultivars available, fragrant fall flowers.
Osmanthus x fortunei/Fortune’s Osmanthus                    15—20’ 15—20 ’ M         S-SH    Drought tolerant, good for screening and barriers, fragrant fall
                                                                                                       flowers.
Pinus mugo/Pine                                               15—20’ 25—30 ’ S         S-PS    Varies greatly in size; tolerates clay soil, cultivars
                                                                                                       available.
Prunus laurocerasus/ Cherrylaurel                             4—8’   5—8’    M         S-SH    Favorite cultivars are Zabel, Otto Luyken and Schip laurel, need
                                                                                                       well- drained soil, some disease problems and scale insects.
Rhaphiolepis cvs./ Indian Hawthorn                            4—10’  4—10’   S         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, drought tolerant, many
                                                                                                       cultivars available.
Rhododendron hybrida/Evergreen Azalea                         2—8’   2—10’   M         PS      Many hybrids and cultivars available, needs well- drained soil.
Sarcococca confusa/ Sweetbox Sarcococca                       3—5’   3—5’    S-M       PS-SH   Drought tolerant, fragrant flowers in late winter.
Viburnum awabuki ‘Chindo’/Chindo Viburnum                 10—15’ 6—8’    R         S-PS    Pyramidal form, drought tolerant.
Viburnum rhylidophyllum/ Leatherleaf Viburnum                 10—15’ 10—15 ’ M         PS-SH   Protect from winter wind and sun.
Non-Native Deciduous
                                                                                                       Varied flower colors, flowers best in full sun, tolerates a
Chaenorneles speciosa or japonica/ Japanese Flowering Quince  5—8’   4—8’    R         S-PS    variety of conditions, many cultivars available, stems often
                                                                                                       have spines.
Cotinus coggygria/ Smoketree or Smokebush                     10—15’ 8—12’   M-R       S       Tolerates a range of soil types, drought tolerant, showy summer
                                                                                                       flowers, many cultivars available.
Forsythiao x intermedia/Border Forsythia                      8—10’  10—12 ’ R         S-PS    Tolerates a variety of conditions, blooms in early spring, best
                                                                                                       in full sun, many cultivars to choose from.
Hydrangea macrophylla/Bigleaf Hydrangea                       3—4’   4—6’    R         PSH     Moist, well-drained soil, wilts in drought, long bloom period,
                                                                                                       needs pruning after blooming.
Hydrangea paniculata/Panicle Hydrangea                        6—20’  6—8’    R         S-PS    Drought tolerant, white flowers in summer, long bloom period,
                                                                                                       many cultivars available.
Kerria japonica/ Japanese Kerria                              3—6’   6—9’    M         PS-SH   Drought tolerant, early spring yellow flowers, interesting green
                                                                                                       stems, cultivars available.
Rosa hybrida/Hybrid Landscape Rose (i.e., Knock Out Rose)     3—4’   3—4’    M         S-PS    Drought and disease resistant, blooms all summer, has thorns,
                                                                                                       many cultivars available.
                                                                                                       Spring or summer flowering shrubs, many cultivars available,
Spiraea cvs./Spirea (excl. Spiraea japonica)                  Var.       Var.        Gen. R    S       Spiraea japonica species is considered an invasive exotic in the
                                                                                                       state.
 
DIVISION 3. ZONING MAP
 
 
DIVISION 4. MODEL LANGUAGE FOR DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS
   THIS DECLARATION AND AGREEMENT is entered into this the           day of
                  , 20           , between (Developer) (hereinafter
“Declarant”) and all parties hereafter acquiring any of the described property.
   WITNESSETH:
   WHEREAS, Declarant is the owner and developer of all lots within a
subdivision of the Town of Oakboro, Stanly County, N.C., known as           and
being that certain tract or parcel more particularly described by map and
survey in Plat Book           , Page           , of the Stanly County Registry;
and
   WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the Declarant and to the benefit,
interest and advantage of every party hereinafter acquiring any of the
described property that certain covenants, conditions, easements, assessments,
liens and restrictions governing and regulating the use of the property be
established; and
   WHEREAS, Declarant desires to provide for the continued ownership,
maintenance and repair of all streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways together
with the associated stormwater drainage infrastructure located in the above-
named subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, Declarant has caused or will cause to be incorporated under the
laws of the State of North Carolina, a non-profit corporation known as “
            ” (hereinafter referred to as “Association”) for the purpose of
exercising the functions aforesaid, and which are hereinafter fully set forth.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the Declarant agrees with
all parties hereafter acquiring any of the property herein described, that it
shall be and is hereby subject to the following restrictions, covenants,
conditions, easements, assessments and liens relating to the use thereof, which
shall be construed as covenants running with the land, which shall be binding
on all parties acquiring any right, title or interest in any of the properties
and which shall inure to the benefit of each owner thereof.
   (1)   MEMBERSHIP: Every person who is a record owner of a fee or undivided
fee interest in any lot which is subject to assessment by the Association,
including contract sellers, but excluding persons who hold an interest merely
as security for the performance of any obligations, shall be a member of the
Association. Ownership of such interest shall be the sole qualification for
such membership. Membership shall be appurtenant to and may not be separated
from ownership of any lot which is subject to assessment. Membership in the
Association is mandatory and may not be waived by the Association for any such
owner.
   (2)   OWNERSHIP OF STREETS, ROADS, SIDEWALKS AND GREENWAYS: The Declarant
shall own and maintain the streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways together
with the associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the subdivision until
such a time that the ownership interest in the above shall be transferred to
the Association or to NCDOT.
   (3)   MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND UPKEEP OF STREETS AND ROADS: Until such a time
that the ownership interest in the streets and roads of the subdivision shall
be transferred to the Association or NCDOT, the Declarant shall maintain, and
repair said streets and roads in the subdivision at a minimum of NCDOT
standards as set forth in the most current edition of the “Subdivision Roads
Minimum Construction Standards.” In the event that, and after such a time that,
the ownership interest in the streets and roads of the subdivision has been
transferred to the Association, the Association shall maintain, and repair said
streets and roads in the subdivision at a minimum of NCDOT standards as set
forth in the most current edition of the “Subdivision Roads Minimum
Construction Standards.”
   (4)   ASSESSMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND UPKEEP OF STREETS, ROADS,
SIDEWALKS AND GREENWAYS: Each member of the Association shall be required to
pay an annual assessment for their pro rata share of the costs of maintenance,
repair and upkeep of the streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways together with
associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the subdivision, with a
minimum annual payment of $              .
    (5)   MAINTENANCE ACCOUNT: The Association shall deposit all assessments
for the purpose of maintenance, repair and upkeep of the streets, roads,
sidewalks and greenways together with associated stormwater drainage
infrastructure of the subdivision into a separate account with an accredited,
FDIC backed banking institution in the name of the Association. The Association
shall file with the town, by the first day of the calendar year, an annual
accounting of said maintenance account.
   (6)   CONTINUED STREET, ROAD, SIDEWALK AND GREENWAY MAINTENANCE: Either the
Declarant or the Association, whichever shall possess the ownership interest in
the streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways together with associated stormwater
drainage infrastructure, shall either: (i) Petition the NCDOT to assume
ownership and maintenance of the streets, roads, sidewalks and greenways
together with associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the subdivision
and the rights-of-way thereto; or (ii) Provide that the streets, roads,
sidewalks and greenways together with associated stormwater drainage
infrastructure of the subdivision and the rights-of-way thereto shall be
privately owned and maintained to NCDOT standards as set forth in the most
current edition of the “Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards” by
the Association, its successors or assigns, in perpetuity.
   (7)   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP INTEREST UPON DISSOLUTION OF ASSOCIATION: To the
extent permitted by law, in the event that the streets, roads, sidewalks and
greenways together with associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the
subdivision and the rights-of-way thereto have not been previously dedicated to
the NCDOT, in the event the Association should dissolve, the Association shall
transfer any and all ownership interest in the streets, roads, sidewalks and
greenways together with associated stormwater drainage infrastructure of the
subdivision and the rights-of-way thereto, as well as the associated
Maintenance Account as described in Paragraph (5) above, to another legal
entity for the purpose of maintenance, repair and upkeep.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ZONING CHANGES
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   LAND USAGE
      
V.   COVENANTS
      
VI.   STREETS AND ALLEYS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-1-1990   Annexes land beginning at a new railroad spike in the
                     center of N.C. 742 and runs north.
                     Annexes land beginning at the point where the corporate
-        3-18-1991   limit line of the town intersects the southeast right-of-
                     way line of East Tenth Street.
-        1-4-1994    Annexes land beginning at a point in the southwest
                     corporate limit line of the town.
-        9-5-1995    Annexes land beginning at a point in the centerline of
                     Swift Road, 28.28 feet from the intersection of Lynn Road.
                     Annexes land: beginning at a point in the centerline of
-        8-25-1997   N.C. Highway 24-27, that point being 998.70 feet from
                     monument; and land beginning at an existing iron pipe in
                     the centerline of S.R. 1131.
-        12-1-1997   Annexes land beginning at an iron rod set, a corner of the
                     Elsie L. Morton lands (now or formerly).
98-02-01 2-2-1998    Accepts as part of the public street system of the town 11
                     different portions of streets.
                     Annexes land beginning at a PK nail found in the
-        3-2-1998    centerline intersection of Big Lick Road and Saddle Club
                     Road, and runs thence from that point of beginning 498.49
                     feet to a point in the centerline of Saddle Club Road.
-        11-1-1999   Annexes land being a 17.687-acre portion of that property
                     recorded in Deed Book 375, page 754.
                     Annexes land beginning at the northeast corner of Oakboro
-        6-5-2000    Land Developers property, that point being on the westerly
                     line of Lot 7.
-        12-4-2000   Annexes land beginning at an existing iron pipe within the
                     northern margin of the right-of-way of S.R. 1115.
                     Annexes land beginning at the northeast corner of the
-        12-4-2000   existing town limits on the southeast right-of-way line of
                     S.R. 1115.
                     Annexes land: beginning at an existing PK nail in a
                     concrete slab located on the western right-of-way line of
-        9-19-2002   Murphy Street; and beginning at a point located south 82-
                     34-30, east 881.28 feet from an existing concrete
                     monument.
                     Annexes land beginning at an existing axle which is south
-        10-7-2002   454.44 feet from a new nail in the intersection of the
                     centerlines of S.R. 1110 (Swift Road) and S.R. 1107
                     (Silver Road).
                     Annexes land: being a certain tract or parcel of land
                     containing 13.81 acres, lying and being in Big Lock
-        11-1-2004   Township, at the northeast town limits, about 0.3 of a
                     mile northeast of N.C. Highway 742; and beginning at a new
                     #5 rebar.
                     Annexes land beginning at an existing iron rod at the
                     intersection of the northern right-of-way line of the
-        12-5-2005   Norfolk Southern Railroad (a 100-foot private right-of-
                     way) and the eastern right-of-way line of West Eighth
                     Street (a 60-foot public right-of-way).
                     Annexes land beginning at an iron pipe at the easternmost
-        1-8-2007    corner of Lot No. 9, Block D, of Sunset Village
                     Subdivision.
 
TABLE II: ZONING CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        12-18-1990  Alters boundaries of RA/Residential Agriculture District
                     and M-1 Light Manufacturing District.
                     Transfers from RA Residential District to Industrial
-        10-17-2002  District approximately 99.25 acres of the westernmost part
                     of the J.W. Huneycutt Et Ux Tract.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
95-01-01 1-3-1995    Transfers franchise to Time Warner Entertainment-Advan ce/
                     Newhouse Partnership.
03-00-01 3-6-2000    Change in control of the franchise, because of the merger
                     of TWI and AOL.
-        10-1-2001   Resolves that Union Membership Corporation shall be the
                     supplier of electric service.
 
TABLE IV: LAND USAGE
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    4-19-  Requests the state legislature redefine their corporate limits.
     1993
     6-7-   Acquires the town additional land, beginning at an iron pipe found in a line
-    1999   of the Gurnie O. Smith tract at the northwest corner of town’s tract, in
            order to enlarge and improve the treatment plant.
-    6-7-   Intent to exchange lands; beginning at an iron pipe found in a line of the
     1999   Gurnie O. Smith tract at the northwest corner of town’s tract.
 
TABLE V: COVENANTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-1-1990   Agreement between the town and Oakboro Fire Department,
                     Inc.
 
TABLE VI: STREETS AND ALLEYS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        7-16-1990   Closes permanently as a public way the alley on the
                     premises more fully described in the ordinance.
                     The public alley located approximately midway between Main
-        7-16-1990   Street and Haywood Street, and being bounded on the north
                     by East Eighth Street and on the south by East Seventh
                     Street be closed, vacated and abandoned as a public way.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                             Code Section
1-49(3)                                Chapter 155,
                                       912
1-51(5)                                Chapter 155,
                                       912
1-593                                  10.12
Chapter 7A                             151.19
7A-227                                 154.16
7A-228                                 154.16
13A-57                                 Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 14, Article 37                 Chapter 155,
                                       533
                                       74.99;
                                       90.001;
                                       90.023;
                                       90.039;
14-4                                   90.056;
                                       90.073;
                                       90.092;
                                       131.99;
                                       153.99;
                                       154.99
14-4(b)                                70.99;
                                       73.99
14-202.10 et seq.                      Chapter 155,
                                       533
14-360                                 90.039
14-361.1                               90.039
14-362                                 90.039
14-362.1                               90.039
14-363                                 90.039
14-400                                 Chapter 155,
                                       533
14-401                                 90.039
14-403                                 90.039
14-405                                 90.039
18B-101(4)                             31.01
20-1 et seq.                           70.01
20-37.6                                72.02
20-97                                  Chapter 110, App. C
20-219.11                              94.23
Chapter 29                             Chapter 155,
                                       1030
42-29                                  154.16
42-30                                  154.16
Chapter 44A, Article 1                 94.25
47-30                                  Chapter 155,
                                       3309
Chapter 47A                            Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 47C                            Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 62, Article 6B                 Chapter 155,
                                       1030
62-3                                   Chapter 155,
                                       1030
62-3(23)                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
62-260                                 Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 67, Article 1A                 90.001
67-2                                   90.056;
                                       90.999
67-4.1(2)                              90.085
67-4.1(c)                              90.088
G.S. § 67-4.2(c)                      90.092;
                                       90.999
67-12                                  90.056;
                                       90.999
74-46 et seq.                          152.06
74-46—74-68                          152.03
Chapter 90, Article 5                  131.03
90-95.2                                34.02
91A-3(2)                               110.01
105-277.3                              Chapter 155,
                                       1030
106-581.1                              Chapter 155,
                                       1030
106-743.2                              Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 110, Article 7                 Chapter 155,
                                       544
110-86                                 Chapter 155,
                                       1030
113-127 et seq.                        131.18
113A-52(7)                             152.03
121-12(a)                              Chapter 155,
                                       461
122C-3(11)(b)                          Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 130A, Article 9                151.02
Chapter 130A, Article 23               31.02
                                       31.02;
                                       90.023;
130A-25                                90.056;
                                       90.073;
                                       90.092
130A-185                               90.023
130A-186                               90.001
130A-192                               90.001;
                                       90.023
130A-196                               90.023
130A-283                               Chapter 155,
                                       533
130A-290(a)(6)                         151.02
130A-290(a)(35)                        151.02
130A-290(a)(36)                        151.02
130A-337(c)                            Chapter 155,
                                       531
130A-343                               Chapter 155,
                                       533
130A-493                               31.02
136-18(29)                             Chapter 155,
                                       3316
                                       Chapter 155,
136-32                                 689.2; Chapter 155,
                                       1030
136-44.14                              Chapter 155,
                                       730
                                       Chapter 155,
136-102.6                              799.1; Chapter 155,
                                       1030 
136-102.6(f)                           Chapter 155,
                                       799.1
136-126—136-140.1                    Chapter 155,
                                       560
136-141 et seq.                        94.28
136-143                                94.28
Chapter 139                            152.02
Chapter 143, Article 21                53.106
Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6        151.01
Chapter 143, Article 64                31.02
143-128                                111.01
143-143.15                             151.31
143-213(18)                            53.002
143-215.1                              53.002;
                                       53.051
143-215.1(b)                           53.051
143-215.1(d)                           53.002
143-215.1(g)                           53.051
143-215.3(a)(14)                       53.002
143-215.3C                             53.093
143-215.6B                             53.106
143-215.6B(f)                          53.106
143-215.6B(g)                          53.106
143-215.6B(h)                          53.106
143-215.6B(i)                          53.106
143-215.58                             151.18;
                                       151.99
143-755                                Chapter 155,
                                       135
Chapter 153                            151.99
153A-121                               90.001
153A-123                               90.001
153A-127                               90.001
153A-131                               90.001
153A-442                               90.001
153A-153                               90.001
153A-275                               53.001
Chapter 159, Subchapter III, Article 3 Chapter 155,
                                       1030
159-7(b)                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
159-10                                 30.15
Chapter 160A                           151.99
Chapter 160A, Article 8                151.01
Chapter 160A, Article 10               153.14;
                                       154.15
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 3       151.01
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 5       151.01
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 8       151.01
Chapter 160A, Article 20, Part 1       90.001
160A-71                                Chapter 155,
                                       234
160A-75                                Chapter 155,
                                       234
160A-79                                Chapter 155,
                                       470
160A-174                               90.001;
                                       154.01
                                       Chapter 75, Sched. I;
160A-175                               90.001;
                                       151.18;
                                       151.99
160A-178                               112.01
160A-182                               90.001
160A-187                               90.001
160A-288                               34.02
160A-296—160A-309                    Chapter 70
160A.300                               Chapter 74
160A-303                               94.16
160A-303(b1)                           Chapter 155,
                                       1030
160A-303(b2)                           Chapter 155,
                                       1030
160A-303.2                             94.16
160A-307                               Chapter 155,
                                       3316
160A-312                               53.001
160A-320                               52.30
160A-428                               154.11
160A-443(7)                            1543.04
160A-446(t)                            153.16
160A-499                               52.30
Chapter 160D                           151.99
Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4        Chapter 155,
                                       461
Chapter 160D, Article 10               52.30; Chapter 155,
                                       135
160D-108                               Chapter 155,
                                       3322
160D-108.1                             Chapter 155,
                                       3322
160D-301                               Chapter 155,
                                       230
160D-303                               Chapter 155,
                                       250
160D-403(f)                            Chapter 155,
                                       944
160D-405                               Chapter 155,
                                       324
160D-406                               Chapter 155,
                                       324
160D-501                               Chapter 155,
                                       3304
                                       Chapter 155,
160D-501(a)                            1030; Chapter 155,
                                       3316
160D-601                               Chapter 155,
                                       324
160D-602                               Chapter 155,
                                       324
160D-604                               Chapter 155,
                                       3315
                                       Chapter 155,
160D-605                               121; Chapter 155,
                                       3315
                                       Chapter 155,
160D-702                               324;
                                       Chapter 155
                                       Chapter 155,
160D-702(b)                            3316; Chapter 155,
                                       3318
160D-705                               Chapter 155,
                                       324
160D-801                               Chapter 155,
                                       711
160D-802                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
160D-804                               Chapter 155,
                                       3307
160D-804(d)                            Chapter 155,
                                       3307
160D-905                               Chapter 155,
                                       544
160D-907                               Chapter 155,
                                       531
160D-908                               Chapter 155,
                                       682
160D-912                               Chapter 155,
                                       683
160D-915                               Chapter 155,
                                       544
160D-930—160D-934                    Chapter 155,
                                       532
                                       Chapter 155,
160D-931                               532; Chapter 155,
                                       1030
160D-931(18)                           Chapter 155,
                                       1030
160D-932                               Chapter 155,
                                       532
160D-940 et seq.                       Chapter 155,
                                       250
160D-1008                              Chapter 155,
                                       3307
160D-1111                              Chapter 155,
                                       3322
160D-1115                              Chapter 155,
                                       3322
160D-1402                              Chapter 155,
                                       3302
160D-1405                              Chapter 155,
                                       324
170D-931(18)                           Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 162A, Article 8                52.30
162A-207(c)                            52.30
164-7                                  10.14
166A-19.24                             Chapter 155,
                                       211
168A-3(7)                              Chapter 155,
                                       1030
Chapter 1600                           Chapter 155,
                                       112
1600-301                               Chapter 155,
                                       233
1600-302                               Chapter 155,
                                       240
1600-801 et seq.                       Chapter 155,
                                       114
1600-802                               Chapter 155,
                                       3308
1600-907                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
1600-910                               Chapter 155,
                                       531
1600-930                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
1600-931                               Chapter 155,
                                       1030
1600-1402                              Chapter 155,
                                       3318
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code           2024 Code
30.01                30.01
30.02                33.01
30.03                33.02
30.04                30.15
30.05                33.03
30.06                30.30
30.07                30.31
30.08                30.32
30.20                31.45
30.21                31.46
30.22                31.47
30.23                31.48
30.24                31.49
30.25                31.50
30.26                31.51
30.27                31.52
31.01                31.01
31.02                31.02
31.05                31.03
31.06                31.04
31.20                31.20
31.21                31.21
31.22                31.22
31.23                31.23
31.24                31.24
31.25                31.25
31.26                31.26
31.27                31.27
31.28                31.28
31.29                31.29
31.30                31.30
31.31                31.31
31.32                31.32
31.33                31.33
32.01                32.01
32.02                32.02
32.03                32.03
32.04                32.04
32.05                32.05
32.06                32.06
32.07                32.07
33.01                31.05
35.01                34.01
35.02                34.02
50.01                50.01
51.01                51.01
51.02                51.02
51.03                51.03
51.04                51.04
51.05                51.05
51.06                51.06
51.07                51.07
51.08                51.08
51.09                51.09
51.10                51.10
51.11                51.11
52.01                52.01
52.02                52.02
52.03                52.03
52.15                52.15
52.16                52.16
52.17                52.17
70.01                70.01
70.02                70.02
70.03                70.03
70.04                70.04
70.05                70.05
70.06                70.06
70.20                70.20
70.21                70.21
70.22                70.22
70.99                70.99
71.01                71.01
71.02                71.02
71.15                71.15
71.16                71.16
71.17                71.17
71.18                71.18
71.19                71.19
72.01                72.01
72.15                72.02
72.16                72.03
73.01                73.01
73.99                73.99
74.01                73.15
74.02                73.16
74.03                73.17
74.99                73.99
Chapter 76, Sched. I Chapter 75, Sched. I
91.01                91.01
91.02                91.02
91.03                91.03
91.04                91.04
91.05                91.05
91.06                91.06
91.07                91.07
91.08                91.08
91.09                91.09
91.10                91.10
91.11                91.11
91.12                91.12
91.13                91.13
91.99                91.99
92.01                92.01
92.02                92.02
92.03                92.03
93.01                93.01
93.15                93.15
93.16                93.16
93.17                93.17
93.18                93.18
93.19                93.19
94.01                94.01
94.02                94.02
94.03                94.03
94.15                94.15
94.16                94.16
94.17                94.17
94.18                94.18
94.19                94.19
94.20                94.20
94.21                94.21
94.22                94.22
94.23                94.23
94.24                94.24
94.25                94.25
94.26                94.26
94.27                94.27
94.28                94.28
94.29                94.29
95.01                95.01
95.02                95.02
95.03                95.03
95.04                95.04
95.99                95.99
111.01               110.01
111.02               110.02
111.03               110.03
111.04               110.04
111.05               110.05
111.06               110.06
111.07               110.07
113.01               111.01
130.01               130.01
131.01               131.01
131.02               131.02
131.03               131.03
131.99               131.99
150.01               150.01
150.02               150.02
151.01               151.01
151.02               151.02
151.03               151.03
151.15               151.15
151.16               151.16
151.17               151.17
151.18               151.18
151.19               151.19
151.30               151.30
151.31               151.31
151.32               151.32
151.33               151.33
151.34               151.34
151.45               151.50
151.46               151.51
151.99               151.99
152.01               152.01
152.02               152.02
152.03               152.03
152.04               152.04
152.05               152.05
152.06               152.06
152.07               152.07
152.08               152.08
152.09               152.09
152.10               152.10
152.11               152.11
152.12               152.12
152.13               152.13
152.14               152.14
152.15               152.15
152.16               152.16
152.17               152.17
152.99               152.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        10-27-1992  52.01
93-12-03 12-6-1993   30.32
-        3-7-1994    150.01
-        4-7-1997    31.45—
                     31.52
-        3-1-1999    30.01
-        5-18-1999   52.02
-        5-27-1999   33.01
-        7-6-1999    92.02
-        9-7-1999    31.05
-        9-23-1999   111.01
-        6-5-2000    34.02
-        7-16-2001   33.02
-        8-2-2004    150.02
-        6-21-2005   31.20—
                     31.33
-        7-5-2005    33.03
-        12-11-2008  52.03
-        3-2-2009    50.01
19-      - -2019     94.16
19-      5-20-2019   10.99
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          - -         93.15—
                       93.19
-          - -         110.01—
                       110.07
-          4-1-1947    34.01
                       91.01—
-          9-6-1966    91.13;
                       91.99
                       152.01—
-          7-1-1975    152.17;
                       152.99
-          8-3-1981    31.01
-          7-16-1990   TSO Table VI
-          10-1-1990   TSO Table I;
                       TSO Table V
-          1-7-1991    92.01;
                       93.01
-          3-18-1991   TSO Table I
92-001     6-30-1992   131.01
92-002     6-30-1992   130.01
92-003     6-30-1992   131.02
-          4-19-1993   TSO Table IV
-          1-4-1994    TSO Table I
95-01-01   1-3-1995    TSO Table III
-          9-5-1995    TSO Table I
                       94.01—
-          3-4-1996    94.03;
                       94.15—
                       94.29
-          8-25-1997   TSO Table I
-          12-1-1997   TSO Table I
98-02-01   2-2-1998    TSO Table I
-          3-2-1998    TSO Table I
-          6-7-1999    TSO Table IV
-          11-1-1999   TSO Table I
03-00-01   3-6-2000    TSO Table III
-          6-5-2000    TSO Table I
-          12-4-2000   TSO Table I
-          10-1-2001   TSO Table III
                       95.01—
-          5-6-2002    95.04;
                       95.99
-          9-19-2002   TSO Table I
-          10-7-2002   TSO Table I
-          10-17-2002  TSO Table II
-          10-6-2003   131.03;
                       131.99
-          3-1-2004    Chapter 75, Sched. I
-          11-1-2004   TSO Table I
                       30.15;
-          12-6-2004   73.01;
                       73.99
-          1-18-2005   51.01—
                       51.11
-          12-5-2005   TSO Table I
-          3-6-2006    30.30
-          1-8-2007    31.03;
                       TSO Table I
                       151.01—
                       151.03;
                       151.15—
-          8-4-2008    151.19;
                       151.30—
                       151.34;
                       151.50;
                       151.51
-          10-6-2008   32.01—
                       32.07
                       73.15—
-          11-3-2008   73.17;
                       73.99
-          2-16-2009   52.15—
                       52.17
-          3-2-2009    92.03
-          6-16-2009   30.31
                       112.01—
2010-11.01 7-6-2010    112.12;
                       112.99
2011-12.03 10-3-2011   95.02
                       53.001;
                       53.002;
                       53.015—
                       53.023;
                       53.035—
                       53.038;
                       53.050;
2011-12.04 11-7-2011   53.051;
                       53.065—
                       53.079;
                       53.090—
                       53.093;
                       53.105—
                       53.110;
                       53.999
2011-12.05 11-7-2011   92.03
2011-12.06 11-7-2011   131.04;
                       131.99
                       153.01—
96         3-18-2019   153.20;
                       153.99
                       154.01—
97         3-18-2019   154.19;
                       154.99
22-        6-20-2020   Chapter 155
                       Chapter 155:
                       110—
                       116;
                       120—
                       125;
                       130—
                       138;
                       210—
                       214;
                       220;
                       230—
                       235;
                       240—
                       245;
                       250—
                       255;
                       260—626;
                       270—
                       271;
                       320—
                       329.2;
                       3300—
                       3324;
                       410—
                       413;
                       420—
                       424;
                       430—
                       435;
                       440;
                       450—
                       459.5;
                       459.10—
                       459.19;
                       460—
                       467;
                       470—
                       473;
                       510—
                       513;
                       520—
                       527;
                       530—
                       534;
                       540—
                       544;
                       550—
                       552;
                       560;
                       561;
                       610;
                       611;
                       620—
-          7-1-2022    622;
                       630—
                       632;
                       640—
                       647;
                       650—
                       652;
                       660—
                       667;
                       670;
                       680—
                       689.3;
                       690;
                       6100;
                       6110;
                       6120—
                       6129;
                       710—
                       714;
                       720—
                       725;
                       730—
                       732;
                       740—
                       742;
                       750—
                       752;
                       760—
                       764;
                       770;
                       780—
                       789.3;
                       790—
                       799.3;
                       810;
                       820;
                       830;
                       840—
                       843;
                       850;
                       910—
                       912;
                       920;
                       930—
                       932;
                       940—
                       949.1;
                       950—
                       954;
                       1010—
                       1016;
                       1020—
                       1029.3;
                       1030
22-        9-19-2022   52.30—
                       52.32
-          2-19-2024   Charter
                      
 
