PIKEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 14-114, passed 3-10-2014
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Glenn L. Hartman         Mayor
Commissioners
Todd Anderson            Mayor Pro Tempore
Al Greene
Charles Hooks
Robert Hooks
Todd Smith
James R. Spicer          Town Attorney
H. Blake Proctor         Town Administrator
Constance S. Witherspoon Town Clerk
 
CHARTER
Section
   
1.   Incorporation of town
   
2.   Corporate limits
   
3.   Officers
   
4.   Licenses for spirituous liquors
   
5.   Effective date
LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA
Session 1891
Chapter 108
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF PIKEVILLE OF THE COUNTY OF WAYNE.
   The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
SECTION 1.  INCORPORATION OF TOWN.
   That the village of Pikeville in the county of Wayne be and the same is
hereby incorporated by the name and style of “The Town of Pikeville,” and shall
have and be enttiled to all the rights and privileges, and be subject to the
restrictions and liabilities as are now provided by law for incorporated towns
in this state.
SECTION 2.  CORPORATE LIMITS.
   That the corporate limits of said town shall be as follows:  Beginning at a
stake in J.P. Smith's field about two hundred yards south of the Slough swamp
and runs thence north four and a half degrees east twenty-five chains to the
Snow Hill road; thence the same course continued twenty-five chains to a stake
in J.T. Edgerton's field; then north eighty-five and a half degrees west
twenty-five chains to the center of the Wilmington and Weldon Railroad, just
north of the switch target; then the same course continued twenty chains to a
stake in Dickerson's field; then south four and a half degrees west fifty
chains to a stkae in W.H. Horns's field; then south eighty-five and a half
degrees east forty-five chains to the beginning.
SECTION 3.  OFFICERS.
   The elected officers of the Town of Pikeville shall be a mayor and a board
of commissioners consisting of five members.  Beginning with the regular
municipal election to be held in 1977, the mayor shall be elected for a term of
four years and the members of the board of commissioners shall be elected for
staggered terms of four years as herein provided.  In the 1977 election, the
two candidates receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected for
a term of two years.  Thereafter, as the terms of the members expire, their
successors shall be elected for a term of four years.  The municipal elections
shall be held by the Wayne County Board of Elections.  The election shall be
nonpartisan and decided by simple plurality as provided in G.S. 163-279 and
shall be held and conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of
Articles 23 and 24 of Chapter 163 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
(Amended by Act of the General Assembly ratified 2-18-77)
SECTION 4.  LICENSES FOR SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS.
   That the board of commissioners of the county of Wayne shall grant no
license to retail spirituous liquors in the corporate limits of said town
without the recommendation of the mayor and commissioners of said town, and the
fee for such recommendation shall not exceed one hundred dollars.
SECTION 5.  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
Ratified the 25th day of February, A. D. 1891.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Pikeville shall be
designated as the Code of Pikeville, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Pikeville, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL.  The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Pikeville, North Carolina.
      COUNTY.  The County of Wayne, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES.  The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      NUMBER.  Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN.  The Town of Pikeville, in the County of Wayne, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Pikeville, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Pikeville, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.  Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1993, §       ).”  The history notes following sections and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION; FEES
      
33.   ELECTIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Body of government
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Mayor
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tem
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special committees and emergency meetings; notification of news media
   
30.17   Adjourned meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  BODY OF GOVERNMENT.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Board of
Commissioners of five members.  The governing body shall be charged with the
general government and administration of the affairs of the town.
(1993 Code, § 20.01)
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
§ 30.02  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as set out in the
general statutes of the state, the Town Charter and the ordinances of the town.
(1993 Code, § 20.02)
§ 30.03  MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town and, as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties under the general
direction of the Board; and
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town
as he or she deems necessary.
(1993 Code, § 20.03)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.04  MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first meeting after its election, the Board  of Commissioners shall
select one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall have
no fixed term of office but as such shall perform all the duties of the Mayor
in the Mayor’s absence or disability.
(1993 Code, § 20.04)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
MEETINGS
§ 30.15  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at 5:30 p.m. at the town hall, unless otherwise designated by the
Board.
(1993 Code, § 20.15)  (Ord. 14-108, passed 3-3-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.16  SPECIAL COMMITTEES AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS; NOTIFICATION OF NEWS MEDIA.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Board of Commissioners and meetings of all
committees of the Board of Commissioners shall be held at the time and place
and on the date designated on the notice of the meeting. The notice shall be
given 48 hours before the meeting by posting a copy of the notice on the town
bulletin board in the office of the Town Clerk and by mailing or hand
delivering a copy of the notice to all news media which have requested notice
of the special or committee meetings.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall collect from persons other than the media the sum
of $10 each to cover the cost of notices. Notice shall be complete upon
delivering to the U.S. Postal Service a copy of the notice addressed to the
media or other person requesting notice at the address given on the request for
notice.
   (C)   Emergency meetings of the Board of  Commissioners and committees of
the Board may be held on less than 48 hours’ notice when unexpected
circumstances require immediate consideration without the regular notice.
However, notice of an emergency meeting must be given, either by phone or by
the same means used to notify the Board or committee members to each local news
media on the emergency meeting list.
   (D)   Local news media shall be those whose principal office is located
within a five-mile radius of the town. At the time of requesting notice of
special meetings, local news media may request notice of emergency meetings at
no additional fee.
(1993 Code, § 20.16)  (Res. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 30.17  ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Board may be continued or adjourned from day to day for
more than one day.
(1993 Code, § 20.17)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Town Administrator; powers and duties
   
31.02   Town Clerk; powers and duties
   
31.03   Finance Officer; duties
   
31.04   Tax Collector; duties
   
31.05   Tax Collector; alternative employee
   
31.06   Town Attorney
   
31.07   Other officers and employees
Police Department
   
31.20   Police Department created
   
31.21   Composition of Department
   
31.22   Duties of police officers
   
31.23   Personnel
   
31.24   Control and supervision over the Department
   
31.25   Conditions of employment
   
31.26   Requirements
   
31.27   Specific duties of the Police Chief
   
31.28   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint an
officer whose title shall be Town Administrator and who shall be the chief
administrative officer of the town government. The Town Administrator shall be
chosen by the Board solely on the basis of qualifications. The Town
Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and shall receive such
salary as the Board shall from time to time fix.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Town Administrator shall be the chief
administrator of the town.  He or she shall be responsible to the Board of
Commissioners for administering all municipal affairs placed in his or her
charge by them and shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   Upon the advice and consent of the Board, he or she shall appoint
the Town Clerk, the Police Chief, the Utilities Supervisor and all other town
employees, in accordance with such general personnel rules, regulations,
policies and ordinances as the Board may adopt.
      (2)   He or she shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices and agencies of the town, except as otherwise provided by
law.
      (3)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Board and recommend any
measures that he or she deems expedient.
      (4)   He or she shall see that all laws of the state, the Town Charter
and the ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Board are faithfully
executed within the town.
      (5)   He or she shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
program to the Board.
      (6)   He or she shall annually submit to the Board and make available to
the public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the town as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He or she shall make any other reports that the Board may require
concerning the operations of the town departments, offices and agencies subject
to his or her direction and control.
      (8)   He or she shall perform the duties of the Finance Officer,
notwithstanding that said duties may be delegated to the Town Clerk or other
town employee.
      (9)   He or she shall act as the Director of Public Works as part of his
or her administrative duties.
      (10)   He or she shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the Board.
(1993 Code, § 21.05)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 31.02  TOWN CLERK; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Administrator, with the advice and consent of the Board shall
appoint a Town Clerk. 
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to:
      (1)   Act as secretary to the Board;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the Board;
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose;
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records and journals of
the Board;
      (5)   Perform other duties as may be required by law or by the Board;
      (6)   Perform the duties of the Tax Collector; and
      (7)   Perform the duties of the Finance Officer, if and when assigned by
the Town Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 21.01)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Deputy Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 31.03  FINANCE OFFICER; DUTIES.
   The Board shall provide for the appointment of a Finance Officer, whose
duties shall be to:
   (A)   Keep the books and accounts of the town;
   (B)   Receive and disburse all monies of the town as required under state
law;
   (C)   Countersign and preaudit all checks, drafts,  contracts, purchase
orders or other documents obligating town funds;
   (D)   Report to the Board concerning the finances of the town, as it may
require;
   (E)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the town and maintain
sinking funds;
   (F)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
   (G)   Perform other duties assigned by the general statutes, the Town
Charter or by the Board.
(1993 Code, § 21.04)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fiscal control generally, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
§ 31.04  TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Board shall provide for the appointment of a Tax Collector, whose duties
shall be to:
   (A)   Collect all taxes and assessments due to the town;
   (B)   Make an accounting to the Finance Officer at the end of each month;
   (C)   Pay over to the Finance Officer such money as is collected for the
account of each separate fund according to the tax levy;
   (D)   Deliver a list of all unpaid taxes with the reason therefor as
ascertainable to the Board of Commissioners;
   (E)   Supply the Mayor and Board with any information as they may require
relative to the performance of his or her duties;
   (F)   Make periodic reports to the Board listing therein all funds
collected; and
   (G)   Perform other duties required by law as the Board may direct.
(1993 Code, § 21.03)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Tax Collector, see G.S. §§ 105-349 and 105-350
§ 31.05  TAX COLLECTOR; ALTERNATIVE EMPLOYEE.
   In lieu of retaining an employee to perform the duties of the Tax Collector
as specified in §
31.04, the Board may by agreement or contract utilize the services of the
County Tax Department.
(Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 31.06  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the town may be a party or in which it may be interested or which may be
brought against or by any officer of the town in the capacity of the person as
an officer of the town;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the town may be a party and approve all ordinances and resolutions of the
Board as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Board, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the town;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board on request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by G.S. § 160A-173 and
other laws and ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 21.02)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.07  OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All other officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Board
and receive such compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by the
Board.
(1993 Code, § 21.06)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20  POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Police Department is created subject to the terms, authority and
conditions set out in §§
31.21 through
31.27 below.
(1993 Code, § 30.01)
§ 31.21  COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and patrol officers
of designated grade as the Board deems necessary.  Such Chief shall, with the
advice and consent of the Board, be hired and terminated by the Town
Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 30.02)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 31.22  DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the town, the laws of this
state within the town and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the Police Department, on
information furnished him or her on his or her knowledge of any violation of
the ordinances of the town or of the laws of this state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any
ordinances or laws.
(1993 Code, § 30.03)
§ 31.23  PERSONNEL.
   With the advice and consent of the Board, the Town Administrator shall have
the duty of hiring persons as may be necessary to staff the Police Department,
including part-time and reserve officers, and provide the town with adequate
police protection, together with the duty of discharging such members.
(1993 Code, § 30.04)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 31.24  CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OVER THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the general supervision of the Town
Administrator, is held responsible for the discipline, good order and proper
conduct of the Department.
(1993 Code, § 30.05)  (Ord. 14-112, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 31.25  CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Members of  the Police Department shall be appointed by the Board
after due examination by the Board and based on the results of the examination.
   (B)   An appointee shall serve six months’ probation.
(1993 Code, § 30.06)
§ 31.26  REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Be at least 20 years of age;
   (C)   Be of good moral character;
   (D)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state and federal
fingerprint files;
   (E)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
   (F)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
   (G)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician employed by the town;
   (H)   Be interviewed and approved by the Board; and
   (I)   Be certified in accordance with state law.
(1993 Code, § 30.07)
Statutory reference:
   State law requires that law enforcement officers be certified by the
Criminal Justice Education and Training Standards Commission, see G.S. § 17C-10
§ 31.27  SPECIFIC DUTIES OF THE POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief commands the force under his or her order and is
responsible for its discipline and efficiency. Further, he or she shall
recommend to the Board the reforms and changes in the Police Department  which 
practical  experience  shows  should  be  instituted. Periodically, the Chief
may be required to make out a statement of conduct of the affairs of the
Department and shall include therein any suggestions for the improvement in the
service or personnel of the Department.
   (B)   Additional specific functions of the Chief of Police are:
      (1)   To  issue to the force under his or her command such orders and
directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
arrest offenders and to protect public and private property and persons in the
town;
      (2)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations and executive
orders applicable to his or her jurisdiction; and
      (3)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary
required reports.
(1993 Code, § 30.08)
§ 31.28  AUXILIARY LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   Whereas, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a) and (b), a municipality may provide
for the organization of an auxiliary police department made up of volunteer
members; and by resolution may provide that while undergoing official training
and while performing duties on behalf of the town pursuant to orders or
instructions of the Chief of Police of the town, auxiliary law enforcement
personnel shall be entitled to benefits under G.S. §§ 97-1 et seq., the State
Workers’ Compensation Act and to any fringe benefits for which such volunteer
personnel qualify; therefore, it is hereby established within the Town Police
Department, as a division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary
Police Division shall be a volunteer organization, whose members shall serve
without compensation, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Res. passed 6-6-2005)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION; FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Procedures for disbursement
Fees
   
32.15   Office fees; reports, copies and the like
   
32.16   Park; ballfield rental
   
32.17   Community building; deposits and rentals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  PROCEDURES FOR DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq., the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act, no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it
has been approved by the officer or employee responsible for the function or
agency to which the expense is charged. 
   (B)   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the Clerk as follows:
      “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (C)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Clerk’s certificate as follows:
      “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(1993 Code, § 22.01)
Statutory reference:
   Preaudit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
FEES
§ 32.15  OFFICE FEES; REPORTS, COPIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Fax: $1 per page to send; $0.25 per page to receive.
   (B)   Police reports: $5 per each report.
   (C)   Copies: $0.25 per page.
   (D)   Returned check fee: $40.
   (E)   Freedom of Information Act searches: $4 per quarter hour personnel
time, with a 15-minute minimum, plus $0.25 per page copied; charges shall be
due at the time the requestor collects the documents.
(Ord. passed 6-23-2009; Ord. 14-113, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 32.16  PARK; BALLFIELD RENTAL.
   (A)   Ballfield, lighted:$35 per evening.
   (B)   Lights are turned off at 11:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2011)
§ 32.17  COMMUNITY BUILDING; DEPOSITS AND RENTALS.
   (A)   Security deposit: $100.
   (B)   Pikeville residents (in town limits): $50 rental.
   (C)    Pikeville residents (outside of Pikeville): $150 rental.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Non-partisan basis of elections
   
33.02   Terms of office
   
33.03   Election of Mayor
Statutory reference:
   Registration for town elections, see G.S. § 163-288
§ 33.01  NON-PARTISAN BASIS OF ELECTIONS.
   The method of election of town officials shall be on a nonpartisan basis
with the candidate or candidates receiving a plurality of the vote being
declared the winner as pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 163-292.
(1993 Code, § 23.02)  (Res. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 33.02  TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The members of the Board of Commissioners shall be elected to four-year
terms. At the regular municipal election to be held in 1993, and every four
years thereafter, two persons shall be elected to seats on the Board of
Commissioners and shall serve four- year terms. At the regular municipal
election to be held in 1995, and every four years thereafter, three persons
shall be elected to seats on the Board of Commissioners and shall serve four-
year terms.
(1993 Code, § 23.03)
Editor’s note:
   Change made by amendment to Charter in 1977.
§ 33.03  ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be elected to a four-year term. At the regular municipal
election to be held in 1993, and every four years thereafter, the Mayor shall
be elected and shall serve a four-year term.
(1993 Code, § 23.04)
Editor’s note:
   Change made by amendment to Charter in 1977.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SYSTEM
      
51.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
52.   ELECTRICAL SERVICE
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
      
54.   GREASE CONTROL
CHAPTER 50: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Service contracts
   
50.02   Supervision by Board
   
50.03   Director of Public Utilities; duties
   
50.04   Right of entry
   
50.05   Water meters
   
50.06   Unauthorized use of water
   
50.07   Leaks
   
50.08   Water for use of customers only
   
50.09   Water for building purposes
   
50.10   Injury to property and fixtures
   
50.11   Tampering with meters
   
50.12   Continuity of service
Connections
   
50.25   Water connections required; separate connections
   
50.26   Connections to be made under supervision
   
50.27   Applications for connections
   
50.28   Connection charges
   
50.29   Connections outside of town
Rates, Charges and Suspension of Services
   
50.40   Water rates and charges
   
50.41   Water deposits
   
50.42   Meter reading; billing; collecting
   
50.43   Suspension of service
Cross-reference:
   Electrical Service, see
Ch. 52
   Grease Control, see
Ch. 54
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  SERVICE CONTRACTS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the town furnishes water service to any
person or whereby the town makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(1993 Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02  SUPERVISION BY BOARD.
   The water system shall be under the supervision of the Board. The duty of
enforcing full compliance with all rules and regulations governing all
connections with the mains shall be vested in the Director of Public Utilities.
(1993 Code, § 50.02)
§ 50.03  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC UTILITIES; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall serve as Director of Public Utilities.
   (B)   The Director of Public Utilities shall perform the following duties.
      (1)   He or she shall have general supervision over all the operations of
the water system.
      (2)   He or she shall see that all rules and regulations of the town are
enforced.
      (3)   He or she shall see that water rates and assessments are correctly
made.
(1993 Code, § 50.03)
§ 50.04  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, store or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures or meters, town employees may
do so during reasonable hours.  Should the employee be refused admittance, the
supply of water shall be cut off until the examination is made and the required
information is obtained or until repairs and alterations are made.
(1993 Code, § 50.08)
§ 50.05  WATER METERS.
   (A)   Any water meters furnished by the town shall remain the property of
the town.
   (B)   At the request of any consumer, the town will test the accuracy of a
water meter alleged to be recording improperly. If the meter is found to be
inaccurate, the consumer’s water bill may be adjusted accordingly. If the meter
is found to be accurate, the consumer will be charged a fee of $5.
   (C)   Checking water meters:
      (1)   Meter good: $5 fee; and
      (2)   Meter bad: no charge.
(1993 Code, § 50.09)  (Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.06  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   Only authorized town employees may connect or reconnect water service. If
water is found to be in use without being turned on by an authorized town
employee or, if water is used for any other purpose than that paid for, the
consumer of the water shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07  LEAKS.
   If a break occurs or a defect is found in any pipe or fixture causing or
permitting a leakage or waste of water, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the premises or the consumer to have the break or defect repaired.
(1993 Code, § 50.12)
§ 50.08  WATER FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS ONLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any consumer to permit any person, except the
members of his or her family or employees living on the premises as a part of
the household or visitors in the home to remove water from the premises for any
purpose except in case of fire or other emergency. Any person unlawfully
receiving or using water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if it is shown
that the unlawful use has been made with the knowledge and consent of the
consumer, the consumer shall be deemed equally guilty.
(1993 Code, § 50.13)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09  WATER FOR BUILDING PURPOSES.
   Any person desiring water for building purposes  shall make application to
the town for a permit. He or she shall state the time when the work will be
completed and shall pay in advance for the water at the regular rates. At the
completion of the work, the estimate will be revised and any additional amount
will be collected or surplus refunded, as the case may be. This section shall
apply where the consumption of water is not rated by a meter.
(1993 Code, § 50.14)
§ 50.10  INJURY TO PROPERTY AND FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure,  deface or destroy the
building, machinery, fences, trees or other property of the town water system
or in any way to contaminate the town water supply.
(1993 Code, § 50.15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11  TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off for
failure to pay the water bill, to turn the water on at the meter or to bypass
the meter or in any manner to obtain water at no cost.
(1993 Code, § 50.16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12  CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   The town will not be liable for any damages that may result to consumers
from the shutting off of water service for any cause whatever, even in cases
where no motive is given and no deduction from bills will be made in
consequence thereof.
(1993 Code, § 50.17)
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.25  WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All owners of improved property located within the corporate limits
and on or within a distance of 200 feet of any town water line shall connect
their premises with the town water system. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the continued use of water from private wells for any purpose other
than domestic use.
   (B)   There shall be no cross-connection of the town water system with any
private well or any other source of water supply. The town will not install any
new water lines or extend any existing lines in any part of the town. Any
expenses for new water lines must be paid by property owners or subdivision
owners.
   (C)   All water lines must be of correct size to town specifications.
(1993 Code, § 50.04)  (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.26  CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE UNDER SUPERVISION.
   The construction of laterals for water connections and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the town or, if done by a licensed
plumber, it shall be done under the supervision of the town.
(1993 Code, § 50.05)
§ 50.27  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a water connection shall be made on a form provided by
the town, shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the proper
fee for making the connections and shall be filed with the Director of Public
Utilities.
(1993 Code, § 50.06)
§ 50.28  CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges for connection to the town water system will be as established
by the Board.
   (B)   Tap on fees:
      (1)   Three-fourths inch: $300;
      (2)   One inch: $350; and
      (3)   Two inches: $1,050 meter only plus the cost to install.
(1993 Code, § 50.07)  (Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.29  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   No connection of any water line or system outside of the town shall be made
to any part of the town water system without special permission from the Board
on such terms as the Board shall prescribe.
(1993 Code, § 50.10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES, CHARGES AND SUSPENSION OF SERVICES
§ 50.40  WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The rates and charges for water service shall be as established by
the Board and shall be due and payable monthly.
      (2)   A copy of the current rates and charges shall be kept on file at
all times in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Water rates.
      (1)   Flat rate inside town: $21;
      (2)   Flat rate outside town: $21;
      (3)   Plus: inside town, $4.23 per gallon; and
      (4)   Plus: outside town, $6.48 per gallon.
(1993 Code, § 50.18)  (Ord. passed 7-1-2012; Ord. passed - -)
§ 50.41  WATER DEPOSITS.
   Each consumer applying for water service to a residence owned or occupied by
him or her shall make a cash deposit as established by the Board.
(1993 Code, § 50.19)
§ 50.42  METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTING.
   (A)   Water and electric meters will be read and bills rendered monthly but
the town may vary dates or length of period covered, temporarily or
permanently, if necessary or desirable.
   (B)   (1)   Bills for water and electric will be determined in accordance
with the rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter readings.
      (2)   The amount payable for each billing period shall not be less than
the minimum charge prescribed in the schedule of rates.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when the meter is installed and
connection is made, whether used or not.
   (D)   Bills  for water and electric service are due when rendered and are
delinquent after the fifteenth of the month in which billed; as of 12:00 noon
on  the sixteenth of that month, a service charge, in an amount determined by
the Board of Commissioners, shall be added to the bill and shall be paid by the
customer in the month owed.
   (E)   Partial payments shall not be accepted by the town and any partial
payments paid to the town shall not stop the discontinuation of service.
   (F)   Bills unpaid by the close of business on the twenty-fifth of the month
in which billed shall cause  disconnection of service, subject to the same
procedures set forth in §
52.02(D).
   (G)   Delinquent notices shall be hung on customer doors no more than two
working days prior to cutoff services.
   (H)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices delivered shall not prevent
the bills from becoming delinquent, nor relieve the customer from payment.
(1993 Code, § 50.20)  (Ord. 13-106, passed 11-4-2013)
§ 50.43  SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When water service is discontinued and all bills are paid, including
penalties, the deposit will be refunded.
   (B)   On discontinuance of service for non- payment of bills, the deposit
will be applied toward settlement of the account. Any balance will be refunded
to the consumer but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the amount due
and payable, the town may proceed to collect the balance in any way provided by
law for the collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for non-payment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full. Any deposit that has been used has been
replenished and a service charge has been paid.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue water service without
notice for any one or more of the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules and regulations;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal process;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and/or
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
   (E)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(1993 Code, § 50.21)  (Ord. 13-106, passed 11-3-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Severability
   
51.03   Effective date
   
51.04   Enforcement
Regulations
   
51.15   Use of public sewers
   
51.16   Private wastewater disposal
   
51.17   Building sewers and connections
   
51.18   Excluded wastes
   
51.19   Pretreatment
   
51.20   Flow and concentration control
   
51.21   Measurement of flow
   
51.22   Control manhole
   
51.23   Determination of character and strength of wastes
   
51.24   Authority for inspection
   
51.25   Protection of equipment and property
   
51.26   Reviewing authority
   
51.27   Determining minimum sizes and distances
   
51.28   Extension of sewer services to customers outside corporate limits
   
51.29   Prohibition of extension of sewer services within watershed or
floodplain
   
51.30   Application for industrial service
Deposits, Charges and Financing
   
51.45   User deposits
   
51.46   Periodic adjustment of user charges
   
51.47   “Missing Material”
   
51.48   Industrial wastewater charges
   
51.49   Billing and collecting
   
51.50   User bill; complaints and adjustments
   
51.51   Financing extensions outside corporate limits
   
51.52   Financing extensions within corporate limits
   
51.53   Capital Reserve Fund
   
51.54   Sewer rates and fees
   
51.55   Unauthorized opening of sewer cleanouts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, wherever used in these regulations,
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section unless
the context plainly indicates otherwise or that a more restricted or extended
meaning is intended. In addition, definitions contained in 40 C.F.R. parts 35,
401 and 403 are hereby incorporated in this section in case of any conflicts.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
   BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE CONNECTION. The connecting pipe from a building,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall, to the
municipal sewer system.
   COLOR. The true color of the light transmitted by the waste solution after
removing the suspended material, including the pseudocolloidal particles.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. All liquid and waterborne pollutants, exclusive of
unpolluted water as defined herein or wastewater or wastes from processes or
operations in industrial establishments, as defined herein.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid and waterborne pollutants resulting from
processes or operations employed in industrial establishments, as defined in
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget of the Federal Government, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
      (1)   Division A: Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing;
      (2)   Division B: Mining;
      (3)   Division D: Manufacturing;
      (4)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewer Services; and
      (5)   Division I: Services.
   INFILTRATION. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manholes. INFILTRATION does not
include and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
INFLOW without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Water, other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from sources such as: roof leaders,
cellar drains, yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs
and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections between storm sewers and
sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include and is distinguished
from, infiltration.
   MAYOR. The chief administrative officer of the town. As used herein, it may
also include any other town employee delegated to act for the town by the Mayor
or by the Town Board of Commissioners.
   NORMAL WASTE. Waste having an average concentration of 250 mg/l of BOD or
less and 250 mg/l of suspended solids or less, as determined by samples taken
before entering the public sanitary sewers.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, corporation,
governmental agency, board, commission or municipal corporation other than the
town.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
moles per liter of solution. Stabilized pH is that determined after a sample of
the waste has been subjected to natural serration.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any facility for wastewater treatment
and disposal not maintained and operated by the town.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The organic wastes resulting from the
preparation, cooking and dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle being greater than one-
half inch in any dimension.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge from a wastewater treatment plant or that body of water, stream or
watercourse formed by the effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor quantities of
ground and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. Any part of the public sanitary sewer or systems,
including wastewater pumping stations, that discharge into wastewater treatment
facilities owned and/or operated by the town or others.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater of any duration during which the
rate of flow or concentration of any constituent increases to such magnitude as
to adversely affect the operation of the sewer system or the ability of the
town’s wastewater treatment facilities to meet the water quality objectives.
   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STANDARD METHODS. The analytical procedures set forth in the latest edition
of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by
the American Public Health Association or EPA Methods of Chemical Analysis of
Water and Wastes, as published by the Environmental Protection Agency, Water
Quality in April 1971 or subsequent editions.
   STORM SEWER.  A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters and drainage.
   STRENGTH OF WASTE. The concentration, expressed in milligrams per liter by
weight (mg/l), of a pollutant or substance contained in the liquid waste.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total solid matter that either floats on the surface
of or is suspended in, water or liquid waste and which is removable by
laboratory filtration.
   TOWN. The Town of Pikeville, North Carolina.
   TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Pikeville, North Carolina.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling and reclamation of sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial
wastes owned by the town or others that treats wastewater from the town.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER.
      (1)   Any wastewater which is substantially free of pollutants and is
discharged from the following:
         (a)   Rain downspouts and drains;
         (b)   Footing drains;
         (c)   Storm and surface water drains; and
         (d)   Cooling water system.
      (2)   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER shall contain, by definition, none of the
following:
         (a)   BOD in excess of ten mg/l;
         (b)   Suspended Solids in excess of ten mg/l;
         (c)   Free or emulsified greases or oils;
         (d)    Acids or alkalies;
         (e)   Phenols or other substances imparting taste or odor in receiving
waters;
         (f)   Toxic or poisonous substances;
         (g)   Noxious or odorous gases; or
         (h)   Temperature in excess of 150°F.
      (3)   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER shall also mean any wastewaters judged by the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources of the state to be admissible
to streams and water courses under the jurisdiction of said agency and in
accordance with the standards of water quality established by said agency for
the particular stream or water course into which such unpolluted wastewater is
to be discharged.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works, for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of such works.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.02  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court, of competent jurisdiction, such
holding shall not affect any other section, clause, provisions or portion of
this chapter.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter and these regulations shall become effective on the first day
of operation of the Town Municipal Sewer System.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this regulation shall apply to all users of the
municipal sanitary sewerage system regardless of location within or outside of
the town limits.
   (B)   The Mayor shall endeavor to assure compliance with the requirements of
these regulations by conference and persuasion. If such efforts, over a
reasonable period of time, are futile, the Mayor shall take formal actions
provided hereafter.
   (C)   In any case involving a person who is discharging waste into the
sanitary sewerage system and where the Mayor finds that such person has failed
to comply with any of these regulations, the procedure for enforcement shall be
as follows.
      (1)   The Mayor shall give notice to such person by registered mail
stating the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the
person remedy the failure within 72 hours.
      (2)   The Mayor may thereupon, without further notice, cause the water
service from the public water system to be discontinued for such person or
cause the connection to the sanitary sewer system to be severed for such
person.
      (3)   In any case where water service is discontinued or the sewer
connection is severed by the town for enforcement purposes, the restoration of
such service shall be conditioned on full compliance by such person and payment
of any expense incurred in the enforcement proceeding and in the restoration of
service.
      (4)   The town may, in its discretion, continue or restore water or sewer
service in a case of failure of compliance on condition that such person
furnish a bond or other security, with terms as specified by the town, to hold
harmless the town from any loss or expense that it may incur as a result of
such noncompliance or any further noncompliance.
   (D)   In any case involving a person who fails to comply with any of these
regulations but who is not discharging waste into the sanitary sewerage system,
the Mayor shall give notice to such person by registered mail stating the
specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the person promptly
remedy the failure. At the same time, the Mayor shall report the facts of such
case, in writing, to the Town Board of Commissioners and to such other
government agency as may have jurisdiction and power to take appropriate
enforcement action.
   (E)   In any case involving the use of the town sewerage system, the town
shall have the right to collect the costs of treatment for the wastewater
discharged by the user to the town sewerage system.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   User's failure to pay user’s bills as provided for in this
regulation;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Legal processes;
      (5)   Direction of higher public authorities; or
      (6)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
REGULATIONS
§ 51.15  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any outlet other
than a sanitary sewer within the boundaries of the town, any domestic or
industrial wastes except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of these regulations and state and
federal laws.
   (B)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, who has
installed suitable toilet and other facilities therein necessary for the
discharge of domestic and industrial wastes, is hereby required at the owner(s)
expense to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the requirement of the town, provided that such public sewer
abuts the property. Connection shall be required to be completed within 120
days from the time a public sewer becomes available.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16  PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provision of
§
51.15(B), such toilet and other facilities necessary for the discharge of
domestic and industrial wastes shall be connected to a private disposal system
complying with the requirements of the appropriate state and/or local
regulatory agency.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the appropriate
regulatory authority and furnish a copy thereof to the Mayor. The copy of the
permit shall be accompanied by such supplementary data as deemed necessary by
the Mayor to maintain an accurate file of such private wastewater disposal
systems to facilitate the planning of future public sewer service.
   (C)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the State Department of
Environment and Natural Resources or other such board or authority.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer in compliance with these regulations and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   (E)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain any private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
town.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.17  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the town.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)    For residential and commercial service; or
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgement of the Mayor.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, in which
case the front building’s sewer may be extended to the rear building’s sewer
and the whole considered as one building sewer. The town does not and will not
assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any such single connection aforementioned.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the town, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCFManual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer should be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer at the user’s expense.
   (G)   No person(s) shall make connection to roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight and be verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the May or before installation.
   (I)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Mayor
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Mayor or his or her representative.
   (J)   All excavation for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in manner satisfactory to the town.
   (K)   The town shall charge the applicant a sewer tap fee for which the town
will provide the building sewer from the town right-of-way line to the sanitary
sewer main. The owner(s) shall be responsible for installation of the building
sewer on the owner(s) property to the town’s right-of-way including the
connection to the tap provided by the town. Charges for sewer taps shall be
determined from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and shall be kept on
file for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk. The connection of
the building sewer to the town tap shall be inspected and approved by the Town
Building Inspector prior to the owner covering the connections.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18  EXCLUDED WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following materials,
waste materials, wastes, gases or liquids into any sewer forming part of the
sanitary sewerage system, except where these may constitute occasional,
intermittent inclusions in the wastewaters discharged from residential
premises:
      (1)   Any waste, liquid or vapor, at a temperature exceeding 40°C (104°F)
or at such lower temperatures that will create hazardous conditions within or
cause deterioration of the sanitary sewers;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of
petroleum substances, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral
origin;
      (3)   Wastewater containing oil, fat or grease (exclusive of petroleum
substances) of concentrations greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not
or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 0° C. and 65° C. (32° F. and 150° F.) at the point of discharge into
the system;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Properly shredded
garbage shall not exceed one-half inch in any dimension;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.5 or
higher than 10.0 or having any other corrosive property capable of either
causing damage or creating a hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of
the sanitary sewerage system and wastewater treatment facilities or interfering
with proper operation of the town’s wastewater treatment facilities;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a color which is not removable by the
existing wastewater treatment plant processes and causes the plant effluent to
exceed color requirements for discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any water or waste having a BOD5 in excess of 350 mg/l unless
identified as an industrial waste for billing purposes;
      (8)   Any water or waste having a total suspended solids (TSS)
concentration in excess of 350 mg/l unless identified as an industrial waste
for billing purposes; and/or
      (9)   Any water or waste having an ammonia (NH3) concentration in excess
of 30 mg/l unless identified as an industrial waste for billing purposes.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following materials,
waste materials, waste gases or liquids into any sewer forming part of the
sanitary sewerage system:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha or other hydrocarbon solvents or
oils or other flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases including any
waters or wastes which contain, at the point of discharge to the sewer system,
explosive elements such that any single reading on an explosion hazard meter
exceeds 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) or any two successive readings
that exceed 50% of the LEL;
      (2)    Any other solid or viscous substance in quantity or character
capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or interference with proper
operation of wastewater treatment facilities, such as, but not limited to
ashes, cinders, ceramic wastes, paper products, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
thread, glass, rags, metal, feathers, bones, tar, plastics, wood, paunch
manure, insulation materials, fibers of any kind, stock or poultry feeds,
processed grains, viscera or other fleshy particles from processing or packing
plants, lime or similar sludges;
      (3)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or any substance capable of creating
a public nuisance when introduced into the sewerage system; and/or
      (4)   Any unpolluted wastewater, as defined in unpolluted wastewater may
be discharged to the town’s storm sewer system provided that such discharge is
in complete accordance with state and federal laws.
   (C)   No person shall discharge into any sewer forming part of the sanitary
sewerage system, any of the following materials in concentrations exceeding the
stated limits:
      (1)   Any toxic or poisonous substance or any other materials in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with the wastewater treatment
processes or to constitute a hazard to humans or animals or to cause a
violation of the water quality standards or effluent standards for the stream
or watercourse receiving the effluent from the town sewer system.
Concentrations of heavy metals and other incompatible pollutants in the
discharge of any user of the sanitary sewerage system shall not exceed values
listed below: (all values are in mg/l)
         (a)   Copper, 0.5;
         (b)   Cyanide, total 0.5;
         (c)   Nickel, 0.5;
         (d)   Cyanide, amenable 0.1;
         (e)   Zinc, 0.5;
         (f)   Chromium, total 0.5;
         (g)   Lead, 0.5; and
         (h)   Chromium, hexavalent, 0.1.
      (2)   In the event of conflicts between values established in this
regulation and values established by applicable state or federal rules,
regulations, laws and the like, the more stringent value shall apply.
      (3)   Effluent limits contained in the NPDES permit and water quality
standards assigned to the receiving stream shall at no time be exceeded or
contravened as a result of discharges to the town’s sewer system either within
or without the values established in this section.
      (4)   Any radioactive isotope in concentration greater than that
permitted by the latest effective regulations promulgated under applicable
federal law.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19  PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is prohibited from discharging any substance as
specified in these regulations shall have the sole responsibility to devise, at
his or her own expense, the methods for eliminating the problem so as to make
any waste discharge eligible for a permit or for compliance with these
regulations.
   (B)   Each user shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this regulation and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pre-treat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be constructed, operated and
maintained in good working order at the user’s expense.
   (C)   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the town for review and shall be acceptable to
the town before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this regulation.
   (D)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the authority prior to the
user’s initiation of the changes. All records relating to compliance with
pretreatment standards shall be made available to officials of the EPA or the
state upon request.
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand separators (traps) shall be required by the town
for the proper handling of liquid waste containing grease, oil and/or sand and/
or other substances in excessive amounts. Gas stations, automotive repair
shops, restaurants and other similar businesses shall be required to provide
grease, oil and/or sand separators.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20  FLOW AND CONCENTRATION CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any wastes or wastewaters in a “slug”, as
defined in §
51.01.
   (B)   Any person now discharging or proposing to discharge wastes which may
include “slugs”, as defined in §
51.01 may be required to provide facilities or adopt procedures for regulating,
controlling or equalizing the concentration of any constituent or the rate of
waste discharge. Said facilities shall have a capacity of at least 80% of the
normal volume of one 24-hour production period of wastewater and an outlet to
the sewer controlled by a water works-type rate controller or other approved
device.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   For domestic wastewater users on the municipal water and sewerage
systems, the volume of water purchased shall be considered to be the volume of
wastewater discharged. In the event a user is connected to the town sewerage
system but is not connected to the water system, a mutually acceptable
alternate means for determining volume must be negotiated between the town and
the user.
   (B)   The volume or quantity of industrial waste discharged by any person
into the sanitary sewerage system shall be measured by one or more of the
following methods.
      (1)   If the volume of water used by any person in his or her industrial
or process operations is substantially the same as the volume secured from the
municipal waterworks system, then the volume of water purchased shall be
considered to be the volume of waste discharged.
         (a)   If, on the premises of any person discharging industrial waste
into the sanitary sewerage system, a substantial portion of the water secured
from the municipal waterworks system is not used for industrial purposes or if
not returned to the sanitary sewerage system, the quantity of industrial waste
shall be determined as follows:
            1.   By a meter (or meters) on the water supply line (or lines) to
the industrial and/or process operations; or
            2.   By a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste lines) from
the industrial and/or process operations.
         (b)   If meters as required under divisions (B)(1)(a)1. and (B)(1)
(a)2. above have not been installed, by an estimate, made by the Mayor, of the
proportion of the water purchased which is used for industrial purposes and
returned to the sanitary sewerage system.
      (2)   If any person now discharging or proposing to discharge industrial
wastes into the sanitary sewerage system does not secure his or her entire
water supply requirements from the municipal water works system such person
shall install and maintain a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste
lines) from his or her industrial and/or process operations or shall install
such additional meters on the private water supply as required to permit
determination of the total quantity discharged to the sewers from both sources
under procedures comparable to divisions (B)(1)(a)1. and (B)(1)(a)2. above.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.22  CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   Any person who on the effective date of these regulations is
discharging industrial waste into the sanitary sewerage system shall provide
reasonable access, means and facilities for the purpose of permitting the
convenient observations, measurements and sampling of such industrial waste. If
such access, means and facilities are not otherwise available, such person
shall construct and maintain an accessible and safe control manhole on the
waste line or lines for such purposes.
   (B)   After the effective date of these regulations, any person proposing to
discharge industrial wastes in quantities greater than 25,000 gpd, or with
strengths equivalent to 25,000 gpd of domestic wastewater, shall provide a
control manhole in accordance with the requirements of the town.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.23  DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND STRENGTH OF WASTES.
   (A)   The industrial waste and/or other pollutants being discharged by any
person into the sanitary sewerage system shall be subject to periodic
inspection. A determination of character and strength of said wastes may be
made annually or more often as may be deemed necessary by the Mayor or his or
her authorized assistants.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected manually or mechanically over such period
of time and composited in such a manner as to be representative of the wastes
being discharged. The laboratory methods followed in the examination of said
wastes shall be those as set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods as
defined in §
51.01.
   (C)   The determination of the character, strength or quantity of the wastes
as made by the Mayor, or his or her authorized assistants, shall be binding as
a basis for computation of charges or for actions by the Town Board of
Commissioners. When requested by the person discharging, the samples may be
split to permit analysis by the discharger or a qualified independent
laboratory for the discharger’s information. The person discharging wastes may
request additional sampling and analyses which will be performed, as soon as
practical, with all costs, as determined by the town, being borne by the
discharger.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.24  AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Mayor and other duly authorized employees of the town, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, flow measurement,
sampling and testing of industrial waste and other pollutants, in accordance
with these regulations.
   (B)   The Mayor and other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry
may withhold information if the industry can establish that the revelation to
the public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred in
division (A) above, the Mayor and duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.25.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.25  PROTECTION OF EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, deface, tamper with or remove any equipment or materials or properties
of the town.
   (B)   Only persons authorized by the Mayor will be allowed to uncover,
adjust, maintain and remove such equipment and materials and property.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.26  REVIEWING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Board of Commissioners  shall be the reviewing authority for
all appeals of actions or administrative determinations under the provisions of
these regulations.
   (B)   Notice of an intent to appeal a request for a hearing shall be
addressed to the Town Clerk in writing and shall detail the nature of the
appeal. An early date for such hearing shall be set by the Board of
Commissioners and the appellant promptly notified in writing.
   (C)   The decision of the Board of Commissioners after such hearing shall be
final and conclusive and shall be conveyed to the persons involved in writing.
   (D)   The Town Board of Commissioners expressly reserves the absolute right
to amend, modify, rescind or supplement these regulations.
   (E)   Nothing contained in these regulations shall be construed as
preventing the execution of a contract, special agreement or arrangement
between the town and any person whereby water or wastewaters of unusual
strength, character or quantity may be admitted into the sanitary sewerage
system upon such terms and conditions as the Town Board of Commissioners deems
appropriate. All such agreements shall be in complete accord with all
applicable local, state and federal requirements.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.27  DETERMINING MINIMUM SIZES AND DISTANCES.
   All extensions of the sanitary sewer service shall be governed by the
following.
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of a sanitary sewer main shall
be determined by the Town Board of Commissioners. In general, the minimum
distance for extensions shall be made from manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of sanitary sewer mains to be installed and the other
required system facilities shall be determined by the Town Board of
Commissioners in accordance with the recognized standards and accepted
engineering practices and design and in accordance with applicable system plans
adopted by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.28  EXTENSION OF SEWER SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   Sewer service may be provided to customers outside of the corporate limits
of the town upon the following conditions.
   (A)   Developers, subdividers, owners and others wishing such service shall
submit for approval to the town preliminary plans and specifications for all
sewer lines for proposed projects. Such plans shall comply with all
requirements made by the town for such installations and such plans must be
approved before final plans are prepared.
   (B)   The Town Engineer shall prepare all final plans and specifications.
All installations must comply with such plans and must be inspected by a town
representative during construction and upon completion. Construction of the
sewer extension shall be by the town or a qualified private contractor under
contract with the town.
   (C)   The developers, subdividers, owners and the like will provide
easements in such form as the town may require for lines, manholes and
appurtenances and for installation and maintenance thereof. Such easements
shall be furnished prior to any service being furnished.
   (D)   At the time of submission of plans for the systems, the owners shall
ask that the property to be served and all improvements thereon be annexed to
the town at such time as the town finds this lawful and practical. Such request
for annexation will remain open indefinitely, will bind the heirs, successors,
grantees and assigns of the owner, developer, subdivider and the like and may
be accepted by the town at any time unless the area involved becomes annexed to
some other municipality.
   (E)   The request for annexation may be withdrawn if the town does not
provide sewer services, as requested by the developer, owner, subdivider and
the like but not if such action is caused by failure to pay for services
rendered or for damages done of the system or systems by the willful or
negligent acts of the developer, subdividers, owner and the like or their
heirs, successors, grantees or assigns of the agents, servants, employees,
invitees or licensees or any of them.
   (F)   This regulation in its entirety shall be in full force and effect with
respect to all users outside the town limits who are connected to the town
sewer system.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.29  PROHIBITION OF EXTENSION OF SEWER SERVICES WITHIN WATERSHED OR
FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   There shall be no sewer services provided from the town’s sewer system
within the Neuse and Little River Water Supply Watershed Area except to those
developments consistent with all requirements of the County Watershed
Protection Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance and Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
   (B)   There shall be no sewer services provided from the town’s sewer system
within any designated 100-year floodplain except to those developments
consistent with all requirements of the County Watershed Protection Ordinance,
Subdivision Ordinance and Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.30  APPLICATION FOR INDUSTRIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   All users discharging industrial wastes or wastes other than normal
waste into the town’s sanitary sewerage system shall be required to make
application for service to the town.
   (B)   Users making application for service to the town shall do so in
writing and shall provide the following information in support of the
application:
      (1)   Name, address and standard industrial classification of user;
      (2)   Average volume of wastewater to be discharged, 60-minute peak
wastewater flow rates including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, and
time and duration of discharge;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by
chemical analyses by a certified analytical laboratory for all applicable
parameters;
      (4)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all chemicals, materials and types of materials which are or
could be, discharged;
      (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation; and
      (6)   Any other information as may be deemed appropriate by the Mayor or
his or her authorized representative.
   (C)   The Mayor shall approve or disapprove all applications in writing.
Reason(s) for disapproval will be provided.
   (D)   Approvals of application for service shall be valid until rescinded.
The town reserves the right to modify the terms and conditions of providing
sewer service at any time based on demonstrable causes.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
DEPOSITS, CHARGES AND FINANCING
§ 51.45  USER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A deposit for sewer service shall be required in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   All applicants shall make a cash deposit to secure payments for sewer
service not to exceed the amount of an estimated two month bill. The deposit
shall be in accordance with the class and scope of the service and shall not
draw any interest.
      (1)   Residential and commercial shops with five-eighths inch water
meters shall provide a minimum deposit of $25.
      (2)   Services with water meters larger than five-eighths  inch shall
provide a minimum deposit of $50 or two times the estimated normal consumption
based on previous users or on other similar businesses.
   (C)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the services furnished.
   (D)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed only at the
Deposit Office.
   (E)   Where the town finds that the request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town may require the applicant for refund to produce the
deposit receipt properly endorsed.
   (F)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the remaining
portion of the deposit will be refunded.
   (F)   Upon discontinuance of service for non- payment of bills, the deposit
will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the user; however, if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the
bill, the town may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by
law for the collection of debts. Services will be restored only by payment of
the balance, if any or the outstanding bills and a new deposit being made in
the amount of the customer deposit required above.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.46  PERIODIC ADJUSTMENT OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall review not less often than once
per year, the sewage contributions of users, the total costs of operation and
maintenance (including replacement) of the sewerage facilities and the user
charge system.
   (B)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall revise the user charges, if
necessary, to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among users and user classifications. Each user shall pay
its...MISSING MATERIAL...
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.47  MISSING MATERIAL.
§ 51.48  INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Industrial wastewater charges or “surcharges” shall be applied to
“industrial users”, defined as follows.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL USER shall mean any nongovernmental, nonresidential user
of the town sewerage system who discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000
gallons per day (gpd) of sanitary wastewater and is identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented under one of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   In determining the amount of a user’s discharge for purposes of
classification domestic wastewater discharges from sanitary conveniences shall
be excluded.
      (3)   After applying the sanitary waste exclusion, discharges in the
above divisions that have a volume exceeding 25,000 gpd or the weight of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) or suspended solids (SS) equivalent to that
weight found in 25,000 gpd of sanitary wastes are considered industrial users.
Sanitary wastes, for purposes of this calculation of equivalency, are the
wastes discharged from residential users.
      (4)   INDUSTRIAL USER shall also mean any other industrial, commercial or
institutional user of the sanitary sewerage system that discharges wastewater
to the treatment works which contain toxic pollutants, poisonous solids,
liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to contaminate the sludge at the treatment works or to injure or
to interfere with any sewage treatment process or which constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in or has an
adverse effect on the waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL USER shall also mean any person discharging wastewater
with concentrations in excess of 350 mg/l for BOD or suspended solids or 30 mg/
1 for ammonia nitrogen.
   (B)    The industrial wastewater charges shall be established not less than
one time per year and at the same time domestic user charges are established.
      (1)   Industrial wastewater charges shall be based on the actual costs
for providing sewer services during the preceding fiscal year.
      (2)   The charges so computed along, with projected increases in costs,
shall be the basis for estimating the increases in costs and shall be the basis
for estimating the monthly billings to each such customer for the following
fiscal year. The charges collected shall be adjusted to actual costs at the end
of each fiscal year and appropriate credits given against billings in the
ensuing year or additional billings made to each such customer using the actual
wastewater quantities and characteristics discharged by that customer during
the preceding fiscal year as the basis for computing the adjusted charges.
      (3)   The actual costs shall be determined as soon after the end of each
fiscal year as possible and until such time the charges for the current year
shall be based on either the rates for the prior year or on estimated rates for
the current year.
   (C)   The costs included in the computation of actual charges for the
preceding fiscal year or of estimated charges for an ensuing fiscal year, shall
include the following:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance expenses; and
      (2)   Interest and principal on outstanding sewer bond issues.
   (D)   Industrial wastewater surcharges, in addition to the normal charges
calculated in accordance with §
51.47(B), will be established for each of the following parameters:
      (1)   BOD: per pound;
      (2)   Suspended solids: per pound; and
      (3)   Other parameters as applicable: per pound.
   (E)   The surcharges will be calculated by the following formula:
 
Surcharge [O & M cost/unit of BOD + O & M cost/unit of suspended solids + O & M
          cost/unit of any pollutant] volume contribution of user/time.
   
   (F)   Industrial wastewater charges shall become effective on the first
regular meter reading date for each user after said user is connected to the
town system and after written notice from the town of classification as an
industrial user.
   (G)   Interim monthly charges based on domestic user charges shall be
invoiced and collected during the period equitable industrial rates are being
developed. At the time of adoption of these regulations, there were no
industrial dischargers on the town sewerage system.
   (H)   The Town Board of Commissioners may establish classes of industrial
users and assign representative strengths of wastewater to each. Such class
wastewater characteristics may recognize analyses of representative users of
each class based on typical data from other sources. To the extent practical,
actual data for each industrial user’s wastewater shall be used. Industrial
users assigned standard strength parameters may request sample analyses of
wastewater. Upon determination of the characteristics of samples representative
of the wastewater on not less than three working days, such characteristics
shall be used in determining the charges until the wastewater may again be
sampled.
   (I)   The Town Board of Commissioners may consolidate the component charges
of the industrial wastewater charges into a single volume charge which includes
the characteristic charges computed for a unit volume of 1,000 gallons. Such a
weighted volume charge may be applicable to a class of users or to each user
where his or her actual wastewater characteristics are known.
   (J)   Industrial users exhibiting marked, seasonal load variations shall pay
charges which recognize the dedication or reservation of capacity for the
treatment of their seasonal peak operating loads and any unusual operation and
maintenance costs directly related to such seasonal loads. This provision shall
apply only to those industrial users whose peak loads exceed 10% of any
capacity parameter and are at least twice its off season loads.
   (K)   The user charge system herein enacted shall take precedence over any
preexisting agreements concerning the charges to be collected for providing
wastewater treatment services or reserving capacity.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.49  BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Sewer user bills shall be rendered monthly and shall be due and
payable within ten days of the date of billing. The service may be discontinued
without further notice for non-payment. The town reserves the right to vary the
dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently if necessary or
desirable.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service will be calculated in accordance with the
town’s published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount
consumed for the period covered by meter readings.
   (C)   Charges for services commence when the sewer tap is installed and
connection made, whether used or not. Sixty days may be allowed for hookup on
initial installation of a sewer line.
   (D)   Failure to receive bills shall not prevent such bills from becoming
delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
   (E)   Sewer connections that have been plugged or severed due to delinquent
accounts shall be unplugged or reconnected to the sewer system upon the payment
of all outstanding sewer user bills and payment of a reconnection fee of $50.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.50  USER BILL; COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If a user believes a bill to be in error, the user shall present a
claim, in person or in writing, at the Sewer Department’s office before the
bill becomes delinquent. Such claims, if made after the bill has become
delinquent shall not be effective to prevent discontinuance of service as
heretofore provided. The user may pay such bill under protest and payment under
protest shall not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   A user’s sewer bill shall be adjusted automatically in the event of a
similar adjustment of a water bill, provided the basis for adjustment was based
on circumstances which also affected the sewer bill.
   (C)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall be the final reviewing authority
for all appeals.
(Res. passed 3-29-2011)
§ 51.51  FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for sewer extensions outside the corporate limits
shall be made as provided in these regulations.
   (B)   If an application is approved by the Town Board of Commissioners, the
owner shall be required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extensions
including the cost of engineering and resident inspection provided by the town,
if applicable, provided the municipality may participate to the extent agreed
upon by the Town Board of Commissioners in the cost of larger size mains that
are in excess of the size mains required to serve the project. No reimbursement
shall be made upon annexation and all sewer lines connected to the municipal
system and located outside the corporate limits shall become the property of
the municipality at the time such facilities are connected.
   (C)   Prior to the beginning of any construction of sewer extensions by the
town, the owner shall deposit with the municipality funds in an amount equal to
100% of the total estimated cost of such extensions. Upon receipt of such
funds, a written contract shall be entered into by and between the municipality
and the property owner in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
Such contract shall provide that in the event the funds deposited exceed the
amount of the total extension cost when completed, that portion in excess of
the total cost will be refunded to the owner without interest. Such contract
shall also provide that if the amount deposited is less than the total cost
when completed, the owner shall pay such additional amount to the municipality
upon demand.
   (D)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may execute a surety bond or
similar document guaranteeing payment for such extension.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.52  FINANCING EXTENSIONS WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Extensions to approved subdivision or developed property.
      (1)   When an application is received requesting the extension of
sanitary sewer service to serve property within the corporate limits which is 
developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision or where streets
have previously been dedicated and accepted by the municipality and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the
municipality, the developer or other person designated by the Town Board of
Commissioners shall estimate the cost of the project and present the
application for such extension, the estimated cost and other required
information to the Town Board of Commissioners for approval. If the application
is approved by the Town Board of Commissioners and subject to the availability
of funds, the municipality will install or have installed by contract under its
supervision, the extension which has been approved and such extension shall be
financed in accordance with division (B) below.
      (2)   When approved sanitary sewer extension project has been completed
and the total cost thereof has been determined, a percentage of the total cost
of such sanitary sewer extension may be accessed against the property owners
whose property abuts upon such extension at an equal rate per front foot in
accordance with and under the authority granted to the municipality by G.S. §§
160A-216 through 160A-237. The remaining percentage of the total cost of such
extension shall be borne by the municipality from funds appropriated for this
purpose. The costs of pumping stations and system facilities installed for
general public use shall be paid for by the town and shall not be included in
the cost shared by property owners.
      (3)   Any property owner shall have the opportunity to pay his or her
proportionate share of the cost of such extension after the assessment roll is
confirmed rather than paying his or her share in equal annual installments with
interest as required by the statute.
   (B)   Extensions to proposed subdivision within town limits. The provisions
of §
51.28 shall be applicable to extensions to and in all proposed subdivisions in
the town limits. The developer shall be responsible for 100% of the sewer
extension costs, including engineering and resident inspection services
provided by the town, if applicable.
   (C)   Facilities excluded in determining owner’s share of costs. When the
municipality determines that it is advisable to install larger size facilities
than are necessary to serve the property requesting such extension, the
difference in the cost of the larger size facilities over and above the cost of
the facilities required to serve the property requesting such extension may be
paid for by the municipality and excluded from the total cost to the property
owner.
   (D)   Exceptions authorized. Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the
Town Board of Commissioners from extending sanitary sewer mains on its own
motion without receipt of an application from property owners and assessing the
cost of such extensions in accordance with §
51.51 when, in the opinion of the Town Board of Commissioners, the general
public interest demands such extension of service.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.53  CAPITAL RESERVE FUND.
   The annual operating budget for the town sewer system shall include a
“Capital Reserve” line item to be budgeted annually for the purpose of
providing a Capital Reserve Fund for capital improvements to the town sewer
system.
(Res. passed 3-29-2001)
§ 51.54  SEWER RATES AND FEES.
   Flat rate inside and outside town limits: $10.25.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2012)
§ 51.55  UNAUTHORIZED OPENING OF SEWER CLEANOUTS.
   It has been determined that the opening of sewer cleanout plugs for the
purpose of draining rainwater from yards is a major factor in the town’s inflow
and infiltration (I&I) problem. Excessive I&I creates plant inefficiencies,
causes cost over-runs and is a major factor in violation notices, fines and
building moratoriums from the NC Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources.
   (A)   Accordingly, it shall be illegal to open sewer cleanout plugs in order
to drain rainwater from a yard.
   (B)   Violations of this section shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   1st offense, $50 fine waivable at the option of the Town
Administrator.
      (2)   2nd offense, cleanout plug shall be sealed for six months.
      (3)   All offenses after unsealing, $500 fine per offense.
   (C)   Fines shall be appended to and become an integral part of the utility
bill; nonpayment of said fine shall constitute nonpayment of the utility bill.
(Ord. 14-114, passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICAL SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Customer deposits
   
52.02   Voluntary discontinuance of service
   
52.03   Sales tax
   
52.04   Electric rate
Coincident Peak Rate
   
52.15   Availability
   
52.16   Monthly charge
   
52.17   Determination of billing units
   
52.18   Notification by town
Cross-reference:
   Meter reading; billing; collecting, see §
50.42
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Deposit required. Applicants for new electrical service or
reestablishment of service shall be required to make a deposit guaranteeing
payment of charges for service as provided herein.
   (B)   Amount of deposit. The amount of deposit required to establish or
reestablish service for homeowners shall be $200. The amount of deposit
required to establish or reestablish for renters shall be $400. The town shall
not pay interest on deposits.
   (C)   Refund of deposit. Refund of deposit will be rendered pending no late
payments or returned checks for 24 consecutive months.
   (D)   Refund. The town will refund deposits every quarter, if the criteria
for reimbursement is met.
   (E)   Final disposition of deposit. When a customer has furnished a deposit
to guarantee payment of bills, and the deposit has not been refunded and
service has been terminated, such deposit will be applied to any unpaid charges
or indebtedness to the town and any balance refunded.
   (F)   Exemptions from deposit requirements. Churches, colleges, public
schools and hospitals shall be exempt from furnishing deposits.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 52.02  VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The town will discontinue service for any one of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Failure to pay a bill for electric service within a time allowed,
the twentieth of the month following the due date;
      (2)   Refusal of legitimate access to premises; and/or
      (3)   Damage to or loss of town property for which the customer is
responsible.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue electric service
for any of the forgoing reasons, service will be reinstated after all bills due
are paid and a reconnection fee of $25 has been paid to reimburse the town for
expenses in disconnecting and reconnecting the electric service.
   (C)   If a customer is receiving service at more than one location, service
at any or all locations may be discontinued if bills for service at any one or
more locations are not paid within the time specified by these rules; provided,
however, that residential electric service shall not be discontinued for non-
payment of bills for other classes of service.
   (D)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue electric service for the
reason of non-payment of bill only after notice has been served and an
opportunity to be heard has been communicated.
      (1)   The title;
      (2)   The town official in charge of billing;
      (3)   The bills for electric service are due and payable upon receipt and
shall be delinquent if not paid by the due date specified on the bill. The due
date will be no earlier than the fifteenth day of the month the bill is due. A
late fee of $10 will be charged if the bill is not paid by noon of the
following work day following the due date.
      (4)   If the bill is not paid by the date specified in the bill as the
cut off date, the first of the month following due date, the Town Administrator
will investigate the reason for non-payment on a case by case basis. Before
discontinuing service, the Town Administrator will advise the Board of
Commissioners and the Mayor of his or her recommendation. The Town
Administrator, in hardship cases, can approve extensions of installment
payments. He or she will also give direction to service agencies that can
provide assistance but will not intercede in writing letters to the service
agency on behalf of a resident.
      (5)   Any customer disputing the correctness of a bill shall have a right
to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented by counsel or any other
person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in writing his or her
complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of utility billing who
shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be disconnected
and have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s
complaint. All disputed bills must be presented at the town hall within five
days from the date of the bill.
      (6)   A $10 fee will be charged for all new requests for meter testing.
If meter is found to be bad, no charge will be incrued and adjustment will be
made to the account.
      (7)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be accepted, only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. If the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or a resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
      (8)   Request for disconnect from customer will require proper
identification and a disconnect agreement.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006; Ord. passed 11-3-2008)
§ 52.03  SALES TAX.
   State tax shall be added to the charges as determined above.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2010)
§ 52.04  ELECTRIC RATE.
   (A)   Residential flat rate.
      (1)   Monthly: $9.25; and
      (2)   Daily: $0.304.
   (B)   Business flat rate.
      (1)   Monthly: $13.25; and
      (2)   Daily: $0.435.
   (C)   Temporary service connection fee.
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars, nonrefundable.
      (2)   After ten working days, full electric deposit and flat rate monthly
charges minus daily prorate are required. Meters are read at cut on and off for
billing purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2012; Ord. passed - -)
COINCIDENT PEAK RATE
§ 52.15  AVAILABILITY.
   This schedule is available for electrical service used by a non-residential
customer with a connected load of 50 kW or greater. The customer must install
facilities or operating procedures which are capable of shifting 50% or more of
the customer’s average monthly load based on the previous 12-months billing
history and off peak during the town’s CP billing hour. This schedule is not
available for residential service, for resale or for breakdown, back-up or
supplementary service.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2010)
§ 52.16  MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   Basic charge: $75 per month.
   (B)   Demand charges:
      (1)   Coincident peak demand: $22.89 per CP kW; and
      (2)   Excess demand: $3 per excess kW.
   (C)   Energy charge: all kWh $.05671 per kWh.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2010)
§ 52.17  DETERMINATION OF BILLING UNITS.
   (A)   The coincident peak (CP) demand shall be the average kW demand
measured during the 60 minute interval used by the North Carolina Eastern
Municipal Power Agency for wholesale billing purposes during the current
billing month.
   (B)   Excess demand shall be the maximum 60-minute demand recorded during
the current billing month, less the coincident peak demand for the current
billing month.
   (C)   The kWh of energy shall be the sum of all 60-minute integrated demand
readings during the current billing month.
   (D)   The customer is allowed to use generation with a continuous nameplate
rating of 94 kW or lower for load management purposes. The customer must
acquire permission from the town prior to installation and operation of
generation. The town may require documentation that the generator meets safety
requirements. No flow of electricity (backfeed) into the town’s distribution
system is permitted. Parallel operation of generation shall be allowed only
with the appropriate safety devices.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2010)
§ 52.18  NOTIFICATION BY TOWN.
   The town will use diligent, good faith efforts to predict each monthly
system peak and notify the customer in advance. However, the town is not able
to guarantee an accurate prediction or that notice will be provided.
Notification by the town will be provided to the customer by direct telephone
communications or automatic signal as mutually agreed. The customer will hold
the town harmless in connection with its response to notification.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2010)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Approved containers
   
53.03   Burning or burying garbage
   
53.04   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
53.05   Containers required
   
53.06   Pre-collection practices
   
53.07   Collection schedule
   
53.08   Unlawful to displace container
   
53.09   Special or bulk collections regulated
   
53.10   Separation of garbage and refuse
   
53.11   Rates and fees
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to, excavated earth,  tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter, 
animal  offal  and  carcasses  and  recognizable  industrial byproducts but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including SOLID WASTE materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materialsin  domestic 
sewage  or  other  significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(1993 Code, § 41.01)
§ 53.02  APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 41.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03  BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to any garbage for the
purpose of disposal.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for the purpose
of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the Town
Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 41.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Editor’s Note:   
   Extensive state regulations are in effect with respect to the open burning
of trash and refuse; see Department of Environmental Management; Regulations
Governing the Control of Air Pollution.
§ 53.04  ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit the same in approved containers as
required herein.
(1993 Code, § 41.04)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05  CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All occupiers of land shall deposit all garbage and refuse in roll-out
containers provided by the town. The roll-out containers shall be placed
adjacent to the street for collection on the day(s) designated for pickup.
   (B)   The town shall provide occupiers of land one rolled-out container.
Upon request, the town will provide occupiers of land with two roll-out
containers for garbage for collection provided that the occupier of land pays
for the cost incurred by the town for the second container.
   (C)   Roll-out containers shall be placed within five feet of the curbside
or edge of the street or in a location approved by the Public Works Director,
but shall not be placed on the street or sidewalk.
   (D)   The roll-out containers shall be placed in the required location for
collection no earlier than 7:00 p.m. on the day preceding the designated pickup
day and shall be removed from the curbside location no later than 8:00 a.m. on
the day following garbage collection. Except during these hours, the roll-out
containers shall be kept in a location no closer to the street than the front
line of the principal structure.
   (E)   Roll-out containers which are damaged or destroyed through abuse,
neglect or improper use of the occupier of land shall be repaired or replaced
by the town with the total expense to be paid by the occupier of land. Roll-out
containers which are lost, missing or stolen will be replaced by the town at
the total expense of the occupier of land. Roll-out containers that become
unusable due to normal deterioration shall be replaced or repaired by the town.
   (F)   In order to prevent undue hardships to the aged, handicapped or
disabled, the Town Clerk is authorized to waive or vary the requirements of
this section relating to placement of the roll-out containers at curbside
location for collection after receiving a medical excuse and conducting an
investigation and finding that there is no person living within that household
that is physically capable of placing the container in the required location
for pickup.
(1993 Code, § 41.05)  (Ord. passed 8-6-2001)
§ 53.06  PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection. Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container
provided for that purpose and no ashes shall be deposited in any container
until they are cold. Containers which fail to have a cover as required in §
54.05 or which have become rusted or broken and therefore are unable to contain
garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner shall not be used.
(1993 Code, § 41.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07  COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town according to a collection
schedule maintained in the Clerk’s office. Such schedule may be periodically
revised and amended by action of the Board.
(1993 Code, § 41.07)
§ 53.08  UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or to otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents, except for the owner or on
permission of or at the request of the owner.
(1993 Code, § 41.08)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.09  SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTION REGULATED.
   (A)   No bulk trash, tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings, leaves and other refuse
will be collected without special charge unless such refuse can be placed in
regulation type garbage cans.
   (B)   Any property owner desiring special bulk collections of loose matter
not in closed containers or tied in bundles may request a special collection
for which a special charge will be made. If sufficient manpower and equipment
are available, town personnel are authorized to make such special collections,
provided that the person making the request agrees to pay for the labor and
equipment used at the rate specified by the town.
   (C)   (1)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than six feet in length or
other heavy objects be collected by the town.
      (2)   No waste building materials or lot clearings shall be collected
from houses or other structures under construction or recently completed.
   (D)   Material to be collected by special collections shall be placed in
neat piles and so located that such refuse can be easily loaded on trucks for
disposal.
(1993 Code, § 41.09)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10  SEPARATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   The Town Administrator shall establish such rules for the collection of
garbage or refuse as he or she may deem necessary to facilitate the recycling
of paper, glass, aluminum and other recyclable material, including rules
establishing the method of separation of such garbage and refuse.
(1993 Code, § 41.10)
§ 53.11  RATES AND FEES.
   There is a flat rate of $13.50 per month. Each receptacle is an extra $1 per
month.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2012)
CHAPTER 54: GREASE CONTROL
Section
Food Service Establishments
   
54.01   Purpose and objective
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Applicability
   
54.04   Grease removal systems
   
54.05   Alternative methods
   
54.06   Sizing and flow rate
 
   
54.99   Penalty
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 54.01  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   This subchapter has been developed in accordance with §§
51.18 and
51.19, as a comprehensive and effective means of minimizing the deleterious
impact of grease discharges on the wastewater collection and treatment
facilities. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the regulation of
the collection and transportation of non-hazardous fats, oils and grease of
mineral or vegetable origin retained in commercial grease interceptors.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 54.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment that provides food for
consumption, either on or off site, by the public.
   GREASE, FATS AND OIL REMOVAL SYSTEM. Interceptors, separators, traps or
grease recovery devices, which prevents free floating grease, fats and oils
from entering the sewage disposal system.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A passive interceptor whose rated flow is 50 gallons a
minute or less and serves as a fixture trap and which is located inside the
building.
   GREASE LADEN WASTE. Effluent discharge that is produced from food
processing, food preparation or other commercial source where grease, fats and
oils enter automatic dishwasher pre-rinse stations, sinks or to other
appurtenances.
   GREASE RECOVERY DEVICE. An active automatic device which separates and
removes grease, fats and oils from effluent discharge and cleans itself of
accumulated grease, fats and oils at least once every 24 hours, utilizing
electromechanical apparatus to accomplish removal.
   GREASE TRAP. A passive interceptor whose rate flow exceeds 50 gallons per
minute or minimum storage capacity of 750 gallons or more and which is located
outside the building.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2012)
§ 54.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. Users including but not limited to cafeterias, hospitals,
hotels, motels, restaurants, rest homes, gas stations, churches and school
kitchen operations involved in the preparation of food for commercial purposes
shall provide approved grease interceptors for the removal of grease, as of the
effective date of this subchapter, all food service establishments which are
proposed, constructed, expanded, renovated, reconstructed or change ownership
shall meet the requirements included herein prior to opening, expanding or
reopening the food service establishment.
   (B)   Existing establishments. Existing food service establishments
requiring a grease interceptor less than 1,500 gallons in capacity shall
complete installation of said interceptor within 180 days of the effective date
of this subchapter.
   (C)   Owner responsibility. The owner shall be responsible for maintaining
the grease, fats and oil removal system located on his or her property and
shall maintain accurate records of the dates of point cleaning and means of
grease, fats and oil disposal, subject to inspection and review by the Town
Sewer Department. Any removal and hauling of grease, fats and oils shall be
performed by a licensed waste disposal or rendering firm. All cost incidental
to the building sewer installation connection and registration shall be borne
by the owner.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.04  GREASE REMOVAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. Where required, an approved grease, fats and oils’ removal
system shall be installed consisting of one or a combination of the following
methods:
      (1)   Passive technology including:
         (a)   An approved in ground grease trap; and
         (b)   An approved grease interceptor.
      (2)   Active technology including:
         (a)   An approved grease recovery device; and
         (b)   An approved solids transfer/grease recovery device.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge.
      (1)   Waste that does not contain fat, grease or oils and that otherwise
does not require treatment shall not discharge into the fats, grease and oil
removal system.
      (2)   Wastewater from dishwasher machines or wastewater that otherwise
exceeds 130°F shall not be introduced into any grease removal system.
   (C)   Food-waste grinders. Shall not discharge into the building drainage
system through a grease interceptor, grease trap or grease recovery device.
   (D)   Passive system requirements.
      (1)   Grease traps. The size, type and location of each grease trap shall
be approved by the plumbing official. Grease interceptors shall be sized and
engineered based upon the anticipated load and/or conditions of actual use.
Grease traps of precast or poured in place concrete shall be constructed of
sound durable material, not subject to excessive corrosion or decay and shall
be watertight and gastight.
      (2)   Grease interceptor. Grease interceptor shall be sized and
engineered based upon the anticipated load and/or conditions of actual use.
Grease interceptors shall receive grease laden waste discharge from the major
point sources. A floor drain shall not be considered a major point source.
      (3)   Grease interceptor capacity. Grease interceptors shall have the
grease retention capacity indicated in the table in §
54.06 for the flow-rates indicated.
      (4)   Rate of flow controls. Grease interceptors shall be equipped to
control the rate of flow.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.05  ALTERNATIVE METHODS.
   (A)   Alternative technology/methods. Engineered alternative technology or
methods shall be permitted, provided the technology or method meets the minimum
performance standards set forth by the administrative authority.
   (B)   Biological or chemical treatment agents. Biological or chemical
treatment agents for the separation, emulsification and/or removal of grease,
fats and oils shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.06  SIZING AND FLOW RATE.
 
Sizing Symbol 4   7   10  15  20   25   30   35   50   75
Flow Rate
GPM           4   7   10  15  20   25   30   35   50   75
1/S           .25 .44 .36 .95 1.26 1.58 1.89 2.20 3.16 4.73
 
(Ord. passed 6-4-2001)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of the §§
54.01-
54.06 or who shall fail to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to
comply with any order made thereunder shall constitute a violation of said §§
54.01-
54.06  and shall receive a citation warning requiring said person or entity to
come into compliance with the ordinance within two weeks of the date of said
citation. Any violation thereafter shall be subject to a civil penalty pursuant
to §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   GOLF CARTS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Traffic and Parking Regulations
   
70.01   Traffic and parking regulations
   
70.02   Obedience to signs, markers or devices
   
70.03   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.04   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.05   Flashing signals
   
70.06   Display of unauthorized signs
   
70.07   Interference with official traffic- control devices
   
70.08   Authority of Police Department officials
   
70.09   Obedience to Police Department officials
   
70.10   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.11   Wheels losing traction; tires squealing
   
70.12   Speed of trains
   
70.13   Use of trucks
Parking Violations; Enforcement
   
70.25   Illegal parking; overtime
   
70.26   Compliance; proof of ownership
   
70.27   Stopping in streets
   
70.28   Manner of parking
   
70.29   Parking prohibited in certain locations
   
70.30   Parking time limited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 73
   Traffic Schedules,
Ch. 72
TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.01  TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Town traffic and parking regulations will be established by ordinance
and the Board. When a new traffic or parking ordinance is adopted, the Chief of
Police shall make certain that the appropriate sign, traffic-control signal or
other markings are made to give proper notice of the regulation.
   (B)   A list of all town traffic and parking regulations shall be maintained
in the office of the Clerk. The current list of regulations is incorporated by
reference into this title.
(1993 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the indicated on any sign,
marker or device for the control of direction of traffic or regulation of
parking erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
when so placed or erected, shall be guilty of an infraction or misdemeanor.
This section shall not be construed to apply when the driver of a vehicle is
otherwise directed by a police officer or when an exception is granted to the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under §
70.10.
(1993 Code, § 70.02)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(1993 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control  signals exhibiting the
words, “Go,” “Caution,” or  “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn, but
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular 
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain until green or “Go” is shown alone,
however, if a sign is prohibiting turns on red lights, the vehicles may turn
right on red lights after coming to a complete stop.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green or “Go” is shown alone or unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian
“Walk” signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1) Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall cross until the green or “Go”
is shown.
   (E)   Applicability. In the event an official traffic-control signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of
this section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.  Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1993 Code, § 70.04)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal).  When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operator vehicles may proceed through
the intersection past the signal only caution.
(1993 Code, § 70.05)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display on or in view of any street
or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be or is imitation of or resembles a traffic-control device, sign or signal or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit on any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(1993 Code, § 70.06)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any other part
thereof.
(1993 Code, § 70.07)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are authorized to direct all traffic
by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the State Highway Patrol and the County Sheriff’s
Department are authorized to enforce all street traffic laws and all state
vehicle laws within the town.
(1993 Code, § 70.08)
§ 70.09  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any law order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(1993 Code, § 70.09)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this chapter, except as provided under state law.
(1993 Code, § 70.10)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 70.11  WHEELS LOSING TRACTION; TIRES SQUEALING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle with such a manner as to
cause the wheels thereof to lose traction with the surface on which they are
driven or so as to cause the tires to squeal.
(1993 Code, § 70.11)  (Ord. 1.1, passed 11-10-1970)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12  SPEED OF TRAINS.
   Any person, firm or corporation shall not operate a train within the
corporate limits of the town in excess of the speed set forth in and regulated
by the Federal Railroad Administration under Chapter 81.48 RCW Railroads
Operating Requirements and Regulations 81.48.030.
(1993 Code § 70.12)  (Ord. passed 2-4-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13  USE OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   All operators of motor truck carriers operating as either common or
contract carriers over regular or irregular routes and all owners of motor
trucks or trailers of any kind, including house trailers, whose trucks, truck-
tractors, trailers, semi-trailers or horse trailers at any time are operated
into, out of, through or within the town shall use private property for parking
and storing such vehicles within the town.
   (B)   Use of the public streets or rights-of-way in the residential sections
of the town is prohibited except for the purposes of travel and transportation,
loading and unloading freight and except for temporary parking in case of
emergency involving a mechanical breakdown necessitating repairs to any such
vehicle.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for a person to
violate any of the provisions of this section.
(1993 Code, § 70.13)  (Ord. passed 8-5-1974)  Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.25  ILLEGAL PARKING; OVERTIME.
   (A)   If any vehicle shall be found illegally parked or parked overtime or
in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, it shall be the duty
of the Chief of Police or other peace officers of the town, to attach to the
vehicle a notice to the owner or operator thereof if the owner or operator is
absent or to deliver to the owner or operator, if he or she is present, a
notice to the effect that the vehicle has been illegally parked or parked
overtime or in violation of a provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   An owner or operator of a vehicle may, within 48 hours from the time
the notice referred to in division (A) above was attached to the vehicle or
delivered to the owner or operator, pay to the town a penalty for the offense
indicated in the notice, the sum of $1. No owner or operator of the vehicle
shall fail to appear and pay penalty within the prescribed period.
(1993 Code, § 71.01)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  COMPLIANCE; PROOF OF OWNERSHIP.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that such vehicle is parked shall, with the duty of complying with
the provisions of this subchapter, provided that proof of ownership of any
vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence
that the owner parked the vehicle.
(1993 Code, § 71.02)
§ 70.27  STOPPING IN STREETS.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for parking in prescribed parking
spaces,  unless  such stop is made necessary by the approach of fire-fighting
equipment, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is given the
right-of-way, by responding to traffic signals, by yielding right-of-way
vehicles to other vehicles or pedestrians or by some other emergency.
(1993 Code, § 71.03)  (Ord. passed 9-4-1978)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28  MANNER OF PARKING.
   Except where angled parking spaces are marked the pavement, all parking on
town streets shall be parallel to the curb or edge of pavement. All cars parked
parallel to a regular curb shall be no more than 12 inches therefrom. In areas
where parking spaces are not marked on the pavement, cars must be parked fully
off the traveled portion of the street.
(1993 Code, § 71.04)  (Ord. passed 9-4-1978)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29  PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   Within an intersection;
   (C)   On a crosswalk;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On the roadway side of any vehicles stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
   (F)   On the right-of-way between the railroad tracks and West Y Street; or
   (G)   At any place where a sign has been placed,  erected or installed,
giving notice that parking is prohibited within a particular area or where the
curb has been painted yellow in lieu of such signs prohibiting parking within
an area. Said areas where parking is prohibited by either sign or yellow curb
shall be designated by resolution of the Board of Commissioners at a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board.
(1993 Code, § 71.05)  (Ord. passed 9-4-1978)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30  PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   (A)   When signs are placed, erected or installed at each block giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any
time between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 6.00 p.m., excepting Sundays and public
holidays, upon any street designated by resolution of the Board at a regular
meeting.  Each two-hour period, or portion thereof, in which the vehicle
remains in the limited parking space after the two hours permitted have
expired, constitutes a separate violation of this section and each such
violation constitute and be punishable as a separate offense.
   (B)   When signs are placed, erected or installed at each block giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour at any
time between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., excepting Sundays and public
holidays, upon any street designated by resolution of the Board at a regular
meeting. Each one-hour period or portion thereof  in which the vehicle remains
in the limited parking space after the one hour permitted has expired
constitutes a separate violation of this section and each such violation shall
constitute and be punishable as a separate offense.
   (C)   When signs are placed, erected or installed at each block giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than 15 minutes at
any time between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., excepting Sundays and
public holidays, upon any street designated by resolution of the Board at a
regular meeting. Each 15-minute period or portion thereof in which the vehicle
remains in the limited parking space after the 15 minutes permitted has expired
constitutes a separate violation of this section and each such violation shall
constitute and be punishable as a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 71.06)  (Ord. passed 9-4-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, the violation of any of the provisions
of §§
70.25 through
70.30 shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person, firm or corporation who
receives a citation under §§
70.25 through
70.30  shall be allowed, within 48 hours of issuance of the citation, to pay to
the Town Clerk the sum of $1 and thereby avoid further prosecution in a general
court of justice. Said payment shall constitute a final judgment on the
citation and no further action may be taken thereon. All citations not paid
within 48 hours of issuance shall be transferred to  the  general  court  of 
justice  of  the county  for  further prosecution. 
(1993 Code, § 70.99)  (Ord. passed 9-4-1978)
CHAPTER 71: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
71.01   Authority
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Liability and disclaimer
   
71.04   Rules and regulations
   
71.05   Permit and fee required
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety under the
provision of G.S. § 160A-300.6, which provides the town authority to do as
follows:
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. §§ 20-50 and 20-54, the town
may, by ordinance, regulate the operation of golf carts on any public street or
highway within the town limits or on any property owned or leased by the town.
   (B)   By ordinance, the town may require the registration of golf carts,
charge a fee for the registration, specify who is authorized to operate golf
carts and specify the required equipment, load limits and the hours and methods
of operation of golf carts.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
§ 71.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. An electric or gas golf cart.
   OPERATE.  To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving
or has its engine on.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
§ 71.03  LIABILITY AND DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on the public streets and the
town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or
roads. The town, by regulating such operation, is merely trying to address
obvious safety issues and adoption of this chapter is not to be relied upon as
a determination that operation on public streets is safe or advisable if done
in accordance with this chapter. All persons who operate or ride golf carts on
public streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril and must be observant
of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians.
   (B)   The town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town
assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on the public
streets and roads under the special legislation granted by the state’s
legislature. Any person who operates a golf cart is responsible for procuring
liability insurance sufficient to cover the risk involved in using a golf cart
on the public streets and roads.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
§ 71.04  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts that are not equipped and registered as required by the State Motor
Vehicle Law may only be operated within the town, in areas other than the golf
course, in accordance with the following rules and regulations. (Operation of
carts in violation of these rules and regulations shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of this chapter or, in egregious cases, may constitute
reckless driving as defined in state statutes.)
   (A)   Drivers of carts shall stay to the far right of the traveled portion
of the road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking motor vehicles and
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Carts operating between the time of one-half hour before sunset and
one-half hour after sunrise shall be equipped with and have in use headlights
and reflectors located on the rear of the cart.
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m.
   (D)   Carts shall be equipped with at least one operational mirror allowing
the operator to see behind the cart.
   (E)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification number. Such equipment must include all
safety devices as installed by said manufacturer, including lights and
reflectors if the vehicle is to be operated at any time before sunrise or after
sunset as set forth in division (B) above.
   (G)    No one is allowed to stand on a golf cart while it is in operation.
   (H)   The driver must be at least 16 years old and have proper picture
identification of such.
   (I)   Only the number of people the golf cart is designed to seat may ride
on a golf cart; specifically, passengers shall not be carried on the part of a
golf cart designed to carry golf bags.
   (J)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee, may prohibit the operation
of golf carts on any street or road if the Chief determines that the
prohibition is necessary in the interest of safety.
   (K)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties without the permission of the property owner.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  PERMIT AND FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No golf cart may be driven within the town, other than on the golf
course, without a permit being acquired from town hall and attached to said
golf cart in a conspicuous place.
   (B)   Town hall staff is hereby authorized to issue a permit to all
appropriate applicants, one per golf cart to be operated. When issuing this
permit, town hall staff shall require the applicant to sign a statement
certifying he or she has read the provisions of the town’s ordinance on golf
cart usage as set forth in §
71.04 above. The permit shall be in such form as the town hall may deem
practicable for ease of visibility. There will be an annual fee of $5 for
registration.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and punished with a fine of
$50 for each violation, provided however, that operating a golf cart under the
influence of an impairing substance (i.e., alcohol or drugs) on a public road
or highway is not a violation of this chapter, but a violation of state law and
is punishable as provided therein.
(Ord. passed 11-3-2008; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street                  Location                                    Speed Limit
                        From the southern corporate limit, a point
Goldsboro Street        0.32 mile south of SR1 534- SR1 002 to the  35 mph
(U.S. 117)              northern corporate limit, a point 0.31 mile
                        north of SR 1534 - SR 10025
Jones Mobile Home Court All streets located inside the Mobile       20 mph
                        Homepark, located on SR 1002
                        From U.S. 117 (Goldsboro Street) westwardly
Main Street             to the existing railroad tracks crossing    20 mph
                        Main Street
Main Street             From the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad to    25 mph
(SR 1002)               Goldsboro Street (U.S. 117)
Washington Street       From Church Street to a point 0.30 mile     35 mph
(SR 1362)               north of Church Street
 
(1993 Code, Ch. 72, Sch. I)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1974; Ord. passed 6-3-1974; Ord.
passed 5-1-1978; Ord. passed 9-21-1978; Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
 
Street             Side  Location
Perkins Mills Road North From the town limits eastwardly 400 feet
 
(1993 Code, Ch. 72, Sch. II)  (Ord. passed 7-1-1978)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   LITTERING
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   CEMETERIES
      
97.   TREE MAINTENANCE
      
98.   FIRE PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Statement of policy
   
90.02   Administration
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.06   Junked motor vehicles regulated; removal authorized
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicles; pre-towing notice
   
90.08   Removal of vehicle; post-towing notice requirement
   
90.09   Right to probable cause hearing
   
90.10   Redemption during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale of disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Protection against criminal and civil liability
   
90.13   Exception
   
90.14   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicles
   
90.15   Effective date
§ 90.01  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   The Town Board of Commissioners has found it necessary and desirable to
promote and enhance:
   (A)   The quality of attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the town;
   (B)   The protection of property values throughout the town;
   (C)   The preservation of the livability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
   (D)   The promotion of tourism, conventions and other opportunities for
economic development for the town;
   (E)   The attractiveness of the town’s thoroughfares and commercial roads,
which present the primary public visibility to visitors and to passers-by of
the town; and
   (F)   The promotion of the comfort, health, happiness and emotional
stability of occupants of property in the vicinity of junked motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.02  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
“abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town over which it
has any authority and on property owned by the town.
   (B)   The Chief shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of “abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles” located on
private property. The town may contract with private tow truck operators or
towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles and in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of law enforcement officers in enforcing other laws
or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by any law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public;
or
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The Chief of Police is designated to authorize the
removal of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLES. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.04  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Chief of Police may determine that a vehicle
is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which to remain on the property after it has been declared a
nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Chief of Police may determine and declare that
a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined above
and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle or upon which a junked motor vehicle
is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the
vehicle has been ordered removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to abandon a junked vehicle or to have a junked
motor vehicle, as defined herein, on the premises of public or private
property.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the Chief of Police may order the removal of a
junked motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. Such findings shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community and
neighborhood; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, health, happiness and emotional stability
of area residents.
   (D)   Junked motor vehicles which are kept within buildings or fenced
enclosures that prevent their view from outside of the property or which are
covered by a cloth or plastic cover which has been specifically manufactured
for the covering of vehicles are not to be removed without the consent of the
owner of the property where they are being maintained.
   (E)   The town may require a person requesting the removal from private
property of any junk motor vehicle to indemnify the town against any loss,
expense or liability incurred because of the vehicles removal, storage or sale.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (E) below, an abandoned, nuisance or
junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed or removed only after
notice to the registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property
upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail. The person
who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the name(s) and
address(es) to which mailed and the date mailed. If such names and addresses
cannot be ascertained, or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor
vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield, or some other
conspicuous place on the vehicle, a notice indicating that the vehicle will be
removed by the town on a specified date.
   (C)   The notices shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on a specific date no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or
mailed unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (D)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (E)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstruction or to otherwise
maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall in all
cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicle without prior notice includes:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on streets or highways: For vehicles left on
public streets and highways over which the town has authority the Board of
Commissioners hereby determines that immediate removal of such vehicles may be
warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance or other law or regulation
prohibiting or restricting parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or no- standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restriction imposed by
ordinances or other laws or regulations.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on the town-owned property other than the streets and
highways and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)  Penalty, §
10.99
§ 90.08  REMOVAL OF VEHICLE; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such notice
to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the State, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing
the town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions (A)
(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.09  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the town
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.10  REDEMPTION DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying a
towing fee, including any storage charges or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter. In an addition, there shall be
a vehicle redemption fee, which shall be set by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.11  SALE OF DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the town or
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
Disposition of such vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town
and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.12  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person nor the town may be held to answer in a civil or criminal action
to any owner or the person legally entitled to possession of an abandoned,
junked, lost or stolen motor vehicle for removing and/or disposing of the
vehicle as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.13  EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, in
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
§ 90.14  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon its adoption provided however, that
anyone who has a junked vehicle on his or her property may have six months from
the date of adoption to build and enclosure or secure a cover as allowed in §
90.06 herein.
(Ord. passed 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Animal control; composition and responsibility
   
91.02   General responsibilities of Police Department
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Records
   
91.05   Bird sanctuary
   
91.06   Running at large
   
91.07   Limitation on number of cats and dogs
   
91.08   Inoculation of dogs, cats and other pets
   
91.09   Defecation on street and private property
   
91.10   Public nuisance animals
   
91.11   Interference
   
91.12   Violations
Holding and Containment
   
91.25   General health conditions in holding facilities
   
91.26   Pet shop standards
   
91.27   Kennel standards
   
91.28   Standards for catteries
   
91.29   Anti-climbing fences
   
91.30   Female animals in heat
Impoundment and Destruction
   
91.45   Impoundment
   
91.46   Notice to owner of impounded animal
   
91.47   Periods of impoundment
   
91.48   Redemption of impounded animal
   
91.49   Impoundment; disposition of animals
   
91.50   Confinement of animals with a history of biting people
   
91.51   Summary destruction of animals for humane reasons
   
91.52   Disposal of animal carcasses
Dangerous and Exotic Animals
   
91.65   Definitions
   
91.66   Illegal possession of dangerous and/or exotic animals
   
91.67   Exceptions
   
91.68   Training of security dogs
   
91.69   Training of attack dogs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01  ANIMAL CONTROL; COMPOSITION AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   The presence of animals at large, stray animals, nuisance animals and
diseased animals within the corporate limits of the town is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance. Such animals are a threat to the health of the community
and to the safety of persons and property alike. In order to abate and control
this nuisance, the Police Department of the town will have the responsibility
of animal control.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
Statutory references:
   Animal shelters, see G.S. § 160A-493
   Regulations of wild and domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-187
§ 91.02  GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall be charged with the responsibility of:
      (1)   Seeing that all animals in the town are duly licensed and
adequately inoculated against rabies;
      (2)   Cooperating with the County Health Director and the county health
officers and assisting in the enforcement of the laws of this state with regard
to the control of animals and especially with regard to the vaccination of
animals against rabies and the confinement of vicious animals;
      (3)   Investigating all complaints with regard to animals covered by this
chapter;
      (4)   Making such canvasses of the town, including the homes in the town
as it deems necessary and practical, for the purpose of ascertaining that all
animals are vaccinated against rabies;
      (5)   Enforcing within the town all of the state laws and town ordinances
for the care, control and custody of animals covered by this chapter; and
      (6)   Coordinating with the Town Clerk in receiving all fees and or fines
for the violations of this chapter.
   (B)   No officer, agent or employee of the municipality charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws shall
be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ANIMALS AT LARGE.
      (1)   Cats at large.Any cat that, by complaint, is found off the premises
of its owner or is found to be a public hazard or nuisance.
      (2)   All other animals. Any animal, other than a cat who found off the
premises of its owner and not under sufficient physical restraint such as a
leash, cage or similarity effective device to allow the animal to be
controlled.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. Any holding or other facility designated by the Town
Board for the detention of animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. A person designated as such to preform duties
described by this chapter.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal confined within a vehicle or confined
within the real property limits of its owner or secured by leash or lead.
   ANTI-CLIMBER.A device consisting of angled metal braces and smooth surfaced
wire, which wire is stretched between each angled metal brace, all of which are
attached to the top of a fence. The wire shall be at least three strands,
separated evenly, the furtherest being no less than 18 inches from the top of
the fence. It shall be extended inwards at an angle of not less than 45
degrees, not more than 90 degrees, measured from perpendicular.
   CATTERY. A commercial establishment wherein any person, for profit, buys,
sells, board, breeds or grooms cats.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. An animal such as is accustomed to live in or about the
habitation of humans, including but not limited to cats, cows, dogs, fowl,
horses and domesticated wild animals. This does not include hogs, pigs, any
other swine or any member of the urside or fedidae families of the carnivora
order if the animal weighs more than 35 pounds. The definition for a
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL would rule out the pot bellied pigs which can weigh more
than 35 pounds and are often considered domestic pets.
   HOLDING FACILITY.Any pet shop, kennel, cattery or combination thereof.
   INOCULATION or INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The vaccination or inoculation of
an animal with an antirabic vaccine approved by the United States Bureau of
Animal Industry, the State Department of Agriculture and the State Board of
Health and/or the local health director, as defined in G.S. § 130A-184.
   KENNEL. A commercial establishment wherein any person, for profit, buys,
sells, boards, breeds, grooms, lets for hire or trains for a fee, dogs. This
shall not include the ownership of dogs which are not a part of the household
or which are maintained adjoining a private residence for hunting, tracking
practice, exhibition or the guarding or protection of the owner’s property when
no more than five dogs per year are sold by such owner.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, possessing or acting as
custodian, however temporarily, of an animal; provided, however, that a person
who has had temporary custody or possession of an animal for the sole purpose
of turning over such animal to a member of animal control or other peace
officer shall not be deemed the OWNER of the animal.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. PETS
include, but are not limited to birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice,
reptiles, domesticated wild animals and other animals associated with human
environment.
   PET SHOP. A commercial establishment for profit, which offers for sale two
or more species of live animals with the intent that they are kept as pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS. Any animal or group of animals in which one of the
following occurs:
      (1)   Is found at large more than two times within 180 days;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Is vicious;
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary condition of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety or welfare;
      (7)   Excessively makes disturbing noises; or
      (8)   Is diseased and dangerous to the public.
   TRAINER. Any individual who holds himself or herself available to the
general public for purpose of training security dogs. This does not include
individuals who are in the business of obedience training only.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human
beings or other animals by virtue of attacks of such number and severity as to
cause property damage or physical injury.
   WEEKDAY. Monday through Friday inclusive, excluding local, state and
national holidays.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.04  RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep, or cause to be kept,
accurate and detailed records of:
   (A)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals will be released to the
county animal shelter;
   (B)   Bite cases, violations and complaint investigations; and
   (C)   All monies belonging to the town which were derived from impoundment
fees or penalties.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.05  BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or intentionally kill,
within the sanctuary hereby established, any wild bird; provided, it shall be
lawful by the Chief of Police or his or her designee to trap starlings or
similar birds or fowl that are found to be congregating in such number in a
particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or menace to health or
property as designated by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory Reference:
   Bird sanctuary establishment, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 91.06  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such animal to be
at large within the corporate limits of the town or on any town property.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF CATS AND DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep more than two adult dogs and two
adult cats within the town.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  INOCULATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   Inoculation. G.S. § 130A-185.
   (B)   Proof of inoculation. This activity is governed by state statues and
is not an area within which the Town Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
State law reference:
   Rabies vaccination tags, see  G.S. § 130A-190
§ 91.09  DEFECATION ON STREET AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such animal
to be at large in the town or on any town property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any animal to fail to remove feces deposited by the animal on any
street, sidewalk, park or other publicly owned area.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring,  keeping or in
charge of any animal to fail to remove feces deposited by the animal on any
private property unless the owner of the property has given permission allowing
such use of the property.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  PUBLIC NUISANCE ANAIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful to own, keep or
harbor a public nuisance animal within the town. Provided, however, it shall
not be unlawful to own or keep a dog of vicious tendencies for the protection
of persons or property, if such dog is securely confined in a manner not to
expose it to the general public. This exception for dogs of vicious tendencies
does not extend to dogs which excessively make disturbing noises.
   (B)   Complaint and notice. Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed
complaint being made to the Police Department by any residence or residents
that any person is maintaining a public nuisance animal as defined in this
chapter, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized representative shall
cause the owner of the animal or animals in question to be notified that a
complaint has been received and shall cause the situation complained of to be
investigated and a written report of the findings be prepared by the
investigating police officer. The Chief of Police may declare an animal to be a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigating officer
indicate that the complaint is justified, then the Chief of Police shall cause
the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to be so notified in
writing ordered to abate such nuisance within 24 hours after notification.
Failure to abate nuisance within 24 hours of notification, the Chief of Police
or his or her designee will issue a citation. In the event the owner of the
animal or animals is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice or order,
along with a general description of the animal or animals shall be posted at
the town hall. If any person receiving notice in the matter herein above
described shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance upon the order of the
Chief of Police within the specified time, the Chief of Police may cause the
animal or animals in question to be apprehended and impounded in accordance
with the provisions of §
91.50 of this chapter.
   (D)   Right to appeal. Within the 24-hour period mentioned in division (C)
above, the owner of the nuisance animal may appeal the findings of the Chief of
Police to the Town Administrator by giving written notice to the Town
Administrator with a copy to the Chief of Police. The appeal stays the
abatement of the nuisance until a final determination by the Town Board.
   (E)   Redemption; destruction. If the owner of a nuisance animal shall so
request, the animal or animals may be redeemed pursuant to the provisions of §
91.48 and upon the further condition that the owner execute a written agreement
to comply with the abatement order. If no redemption and execution is made by
the owner within the time specified under division (C) above, then the animal
shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of §
91.51 hereunder.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11  INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest the
Police Department or its agents or county animal control officers or
veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter or
seeks to release any animal in the custody of said agents, whether it be a
holding facility or a trap designed specifically to capture an animal and set
by the police officer or the tampering with a trap set by the above mentioned
agents to prevent the capture of an animal.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In discharging their duties under this chapter, members of the Police
Department are hereby empowered to issue citations to any person if there is
reasonable cause to believe that the person has violated any of the provisions
of this chapter. Citations so issued may be delivered in person to the violator
by member of the Police Department or they may be mailed to the person so
charged, if he or she cannot be readily found. Any notice or citations so
delivered or mailed shall direct the alleged violator to appear at the town
hall of the town on or before a specific day and hour named in the notice; and
the period so specified shall be not less than 96 hours after its delivery to
the violator.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause all notice forms to be serially
numbered in triplicate and shall cause the records with respect to the notice
forms and the disposition of the same to be maintained that all forms shall be
capable of being accounted for. The Chief of Police or his or her
representative shall periodically investigate the records of the Department for
the purpose of determining the disposition of the notice forms and shall report
the result of such investigation to the Town Administrator. For the purpose of
making this investigation, the Town Administrator shall have access to the
necessary records of the Department.
   (C)   If an alleged violator of any section of this chapter does not appear
in response to the notice described in division (A) above or before the day and
hour named in said notice, the Police Department shall send to such violator a
notice informing the violator of the violation and warning the violator that he
will be held responsible to appear in answer to said notice and that in the
event that such notice is disregarded for a period of four days (96 hours) from
the date of mailing of this second notice, a complaint will be filed and a
warrant of arrest issued.
   (D)   If a violator does not appear in response to the above described
notices and citation, the Police Department shall forthwith have a complaint
entered against such person and secure and issue a warrant for his or her
arrest.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
HOLDING AND CONTAINMENT
§ 91.25  GENERAL HEALTH CONDITIONS IN HOLDING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any animal in a holding facility which shows signs of illness or
contagious disease shall be isolated in such manner as to prevent the spread of
such illness or disease to other animals. All sick, diseased or injured animals
in such facilities shall be provided appropriate veterinary care; and areas
where said animal has been shall be decontaminated.
   (B)   All holding facilities shall, in addition to complying with other
applicable provisions of this chapter, provide for healthy and comfortable
temperatures, in accordance with the age and species of animals, in areas
outside building where animals are kept.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.26  PET SHOP STANDARDS.
   (A)   Compliance. All pet shops, as defined herein, including pet shops
operating in conjunction with another holding facility, shall, in addition to
the other requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of
this section.
   (B)   Standards. There shall be available hot water at a minimum temperature
of 140°F for washing cages and disinfecting them and cold water easily
accessible to all parts of the shop. Fresh water will be available to all
species at all times. Containers are to be cleaned and disinfected each day.
All water containers shall be mounted so the animal cannot turn them over and
be removable for cleaning.
   (C)   Room temperature. The room temperature of the shop shall be maintained
at a level that is healthful for every species of animals kept in the shop.
   (D)   Cages and enclosures. All cages and enclosures are to be of a
nonporous material for easy cleaning and disinfecting. Each cage must be of
sufficient size that any animal will have room to stand, turn and stretch out
to its full length.
   (E)   Feeding. All animals under three months old are to be fed at least
three times per 24 hours. Animals over three months old should be fed once
every 24 hours. Food for all animals shall be served in a clean dish so mounted
that the animals cannot readily tip it over nor defecate or urinate therein.
   (F)   Birds. Each bird must have sufficient room to sit on a perch. Perches
shall be placed horizontal to each other in the same cage. Cages must be
cleaned every day and cages must be disinfected when birds are sold. Parrots
and other large birds shall have separate cages from smaller birds.
   (G)   Bedding. There shall be sufficient clean, dry bedding to meet the
needs of each individual animal.
   (H)   Fish. The temperature of water in which fish are kept shall be
maintained at a constant temperature that is healthful.
   (I)   General watering and sanitation requirements. All animals must be
watered and cages cleaned everyday, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27  KENNEL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. All kennels, as defined herein, shall, in addition to the
other requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section. Willful failure of the owner or operator to meet these standards shall
be unlawful.
   (B)   Water. There shall be available hot water at a minimum temperature of
140°F for washing cages and disinfecting them and cold water easily accessible
to all parts of the shop. Fresh water will be available to all species at all
times. Containers are to be cleaned and disinfected each day. All water
containers shall be mounted so the animal cannot turn them over and be
removable for cleaning.
   (C)   Room temperature. The room temperature of the shop shall be maintained
at a level that is healthful for every species of animals kept in the shop.
   (D)   Cages and enclosures. All cages and enclosures are to be of a
nonporous material for easy cleaning and disinfecting. Each cage must be of
sufficient size that any animal will have room to stand, turn and stretch out
to its full length.
   (E)   Feeding. All animals under three months old are to be fed at least
three  times per 24 hours. Animals over three months old should be fed once
every 24 hours. Food for all animals shall be served in a clean dish so mounted
that the animals cannot readily tip it over or defecate or urinate therein.
   (F)   Birds. Each bird must have sufficient room to sit on a perch. Perches
shall be placed horizontal to each other in the same cage. Cages must be
cleaned everyday and cages must be disinfected when birds are sold. Parrots and
other large birds shall have separate cages from smaller birds.
   (G)   Bedding. There shall be sufficient clean, dry bedding to meet the
needs of each individual animal.
   (H)   Fish. The temperature of water in which fish are kept shall be
maintained at a constant temperature that is healthful.
   (I)   General watering and sanitation requirement. All animals must be
watered and cages cleaned everyday, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28  STANDARDS FOR CATTERIES.
   The standards for catteries, as defined herein, shall be the same as those
required for kennels as defined and described above. The word “cat” shall be
substituted for the word “dog” when applying kennel standards to catteries.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.29  ANTI-CLIMBING FENCES.
   Anti-climbing fences are not allowed in residential zones.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.30  FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   Every female animal while in heat shall be confined in a building or a
secure enclosure in such manner that she will not be in contact with another
animal nor create a nuisance by attracting other animals; provided, this
section shall not be constructed to prohibit the intentional breeding of
animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the owner of an animal being
bred.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
IMPOUNDMENT AND DESTRUCTION
§ 91.45  IMPOUNDMENT.
   Animals may be impounded when found at large or ordered by the Police Chief
or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.46  NOTICE TO OWNER OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   Upon impounding an animal with an identification tag, the police officer
shall cause a prompt and reasonable effort to be made to locate and notify the
animals owner. The town will post description of impounded animal in town hall
for five working days.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.47  PERIODS OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Domesticated animals other than dogs, shall be impounded by the county
according to the County Animal Control Ordinance. Such animals shall be
impounded in a humane manner
   (B)   Dogs without valid license tags shall be impounded by the county
according to the County Animal Control Ordinance. Dogs with valid tags shall be
impounded by the county according to the county Animal Control Ordinance. Such
animals shall be impounded in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.48  REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL.
   (A)   The owner of an impounded animal shall be entitled to redeem such
animal, except as provided in this subchapter, upon compliance with the license
provision of this chapter, the payment of all county redemption fees and upon
furnishing proof of ownership. Any animal redeemed which has not been
inoculated against rabies shall be so inoculated within two weekdays of
redemption and failure of the owner of the animal to cause the dog or cat to be
so inoculated shall be unlawful.
   (B)   All fines imposed by the town must be paid before redemption to the
owner. Proof of payment must be provided to the County Animal Shelter before
redemption to the owner.
   (C)   Redemption fees provided in this section shall be set by the Town
Board for each animal. See fee schedule.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.49  IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any exotic animal or reptile which is kept by any person in
contravention of §
91.66 of this provisions may be taken up and impounded by these Police
Department for the protection and health of the animal and/or for the
protection of the public.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the police officer shall take up and impound the
animal in the presence of its owner or harborer; however, if such is not
practicable, then the police officer may impound such animal consistent with
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   If an animal is impounded pursuant to this section, the owner or
harborer of the animal shall be notified by the police officer in person or by
certified mail.
   (D)   Any animal impounded pursuant to this section will be held by the
County Animal Control facility for the owner to claim pursuant to this section.
   (E)   The owner or harborer of the animal can reclaim the animal if the
person can satisfy the Chief of Police that a safe transfer of the animal to an
appropriate location outside of the town has been arranged.
   (F)   If no owner or harborer can be located or will claim the animal, the
animal will be immediately turned over to the County Animal Control.
   (G)   All cost of impoundment, care and fines of the animal will be charged
to its owner or harborer regardless of whether the animal is claimed by or
returned to said owners or harborer; and in the event the animal is reclaimed,
such costs shall be paid in full prior to the owner or harborer reclaiming the
animal pursuant to division (E) above.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.50  CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS WITH HISTORY OF BITING PEOPLE.
   All fierce, dangerous or vicious animals, including dogs that have a history
of unlawful biting humans, shall be confined by the owner within a building or
secure enclosure or by the Police Department. Such animals shall not be
released from confinement unless securely muzzled.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.51  SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS FOR HUMANE REASONS.
   When, in the judgement of the Police Department, it is determined that any
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from
danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without regard to
any time limitations otherwise established herein and shall not be held
personally liable as result of any act required in the discharge of such
duties.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
§ 91.52  DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   The Director of Public Works, upon request of any person or otherwise, may
pick up and dispose of any animal carcass within the area of his or her
jurisdiction. When the owner of an animal, the carcass of which is disposed of
by a public agency, can be identified, he or she shall be billed for the cost
of the disposition. See the fee schedule kept on file for public inspection in
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed  7-25-2000)
DANGEROUS AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.65  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANIDAI. Any member of the dog (canto) family not customarily domesticated
by humans or any hybrids of such canidae, thereof, including wolf hybrids which
are a cross between a wolf and a domestic dog, but not including domestic dog
(canis familiaris).
   DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any member of the canidae, felidae or ursidae
families including hybrids thereof which, due to their inherent nature, may be
considered dangerous to humans.
   DANGEROUS REPTILE. Any member of the class reptilla which:
      (1)   Is venomous. A venomous reptile shall include all members of the
families helodermidae (gila monsters and Mexican beaded lizards), viperidae
(vipers), crotalidae (pit vipers), atractaspidae (burrowing asps),
hydrophilidae (sea snakes) and elapidae (cobras, coral snakes and their
allies), as well as any “rear fanged” snakes of the family colubridae that are
known to be dangerous to humans (including, but not limited to dispholidus
typus (boomslang), thebtomis kirtlandii (twig snake), rahbdophisspp
(keelbacks);
      (2)   Is a member of the order crocodilia (crocodiles, alligators and
caiman); or
      (3)   Constrictor snakes not indigenous.
   An EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal which:
      (1)   Is not native or indigenous to the state;
      (2)   Does not have an established wild population in the state; and/or
      (3)   Is not regulated by the State Wildlife Commission.
   FELIDAE. Any member of the cat family weighing over 15 pounds not
customarily domesticated by humans or any hybrids of such felidaie, but not
including domestic cats (felis catus).
   HARBORER OF A DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL OR A DANGEROUS REPTILE. Any person or
persons, regardless of ownership, who allows a dangerous reptile to remain,
lodge or be fed or to be given shelter or refuge within the person’s home,
store, yard, enclosure, outbuilding, abandoned vehicle or building, place of
business or any other premises in which the person resides or over which the
person has control.
   URSIDAE. Any member of the bear family or hybrids of such ursidae.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
§ 91.66  ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS AND/OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   At no time may any person or persons harbor an exotic animal or a reptile.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.67  EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   Veterinary clinics in possession of such animals or reptiles for
treatment or rehabilitation purposes;
   (B)   Non-resident circuses for no longer than one seven-day period, per
each separate location where such circus is held within the town per calendar
year;
   (C)   Non-resident carnivals for no longer than one seven-day period, per
each separate location where such carnival is held within the town per calendar
year; and/or
   (D)   Persons temporarily transporting such animals or reptiles through the
town, provided that such transit time shall not be more than 24 hours.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.68  TRAINING OF SECURITY DOGS.
   Training of security dogs is not allowed in town limits.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.69  TRAINING OF ATTACK DOGS.
   Attack training of attack dogs are not allowed in the town limits.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, a violation herein is a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine and not to exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. passed 7-25-2000)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Board approval for new streets
   
92.02   Expense for new streets; owner responsibility
   
92.03   Property numbering system
   
92.04   Use of streets for storage and merchandise
Excavation and Repair
   
92.15   Excavations; permit required
   
92.16   Application; fees
   
92.17   Street repair; after excavation
   
92.18   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
92.19   Streets not to be damaged by tractors or harrows
   
92.20   Sidewalk construction
   
92.21   House moving
   
92.22   Damage to town property
   
92.23   Driveways; permit required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  BOARD APPROVAL FOR NEW STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted as such
and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Board must give its
approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards set by
the Board and that the best interests of the town would be served by accepting
the street as a town street.
(1993 Code, § 40.01)
§ 92.02  EXPENSE FOR NEW STREETS; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town will not build any new streets in town; any expenses for making new
streets must be paid by property owners or subdivision owners. All streets must
have 50-foot rights-of-way and have good drainage.
(1993 Code, § 40.02)  (Ord. passed 1-3-1972)
§ 92.03  PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The property numbering map entitled Property Numbering Map, dated
December 4, 1978, Pikeville, North Carolina, is hereby adopted as the official
property numbering map of the town and all property numbers assigned shall be
assigned in accordance with this numbering map and no other property numbers
shall be used or displayed in the town except numbers assigned in accordance
with the official numbering map. The property numbering map shall be kept on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Odd numbers shall be assigned to the left side of the street and even
numbers to the right side.
   (C)   Every property owner of improved property shall, on or before March 1,
1979, purchase and display in a conspicuous place on said property the number
assigned.
   (D)   All  residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of
this section shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property
numbering map and shall purchase and display such number as provided in
division (C) above.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this section, except for
repair or replacement of such number.
(1993 Code, § 40.03)  (Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04  USE OF STREETS FOR STORAGE AND MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use the
streets of the town for the purposes of storing motor vehicles or any other
property or to display merchandise of any description on the streets of the
town for the purpose of sale.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to place merchandise, machinery or any articles
for sale on the outside of the sidewalks. They must be placed next to the
building and must not take up more than two feet of the sidewalk.
(1993 Code, § 40.04)  (Ord. passed 8-4-1950; Ord. passed 8-15-1962)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 92.15  EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench, 
tunnel  or hole in,  along,  across,  or under any street, sidewalk or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or
poles or for any other purposes unless a written permit there for has been
issued by some officer of the town vested with proper authority, provided that
a permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract
with the town, but in the event the work requires a sidewalk or street to be
wholly or partially obstructed, the party performing the work shall notify the
town at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless
prevented by sudden emergency.
(1993 Code, § 40.15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16  APPLICATION; FEES.
   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or sidewalk,
as set forth in §
92.15,  shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut. A fee may be required by the Board
for such permit.
(1993 Code, § 40.16)
§ 92.17  STREET REPAIR; AFTER EXCAVATION.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening and the
refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications of
the town.
(1993 Code, § 40.17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.18  EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place of the town without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warnings at,
in or around the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work
and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of
the excavation or work.
(1993 Code, § 40.18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19  STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED BY TRACTORS OR HARROWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or
run or cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or other implement, engine,
machine or tool on any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the
town which shall be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof.
   (B)   Any person violating division (A) above shall be liable to the town
for the cost of repairing any and all damage caused.
(1993 Code, § 40.19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.20  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(1993 Code, § 40.20)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21  HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building on or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Board and the deposit of a good
and sufficient bond to cover damage done to any street or sidewalk or to any
property of any person.
(1993 Code, § 40.21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22  DAMAGE TO TOWN PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint on or deface any bridge,
culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal,
bulletin board or other town property on the streets and sidewalks or elsewhere
except employees of the town in the performance of their duties.
(1993 Code, § 40.22)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23  DRIVEWAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the town.
(1993 Code, § 40.23)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: LITTERING
Section
   
93.01   Littering prohibited
   
93.02   Littering from vehicles
   
93.03   Maintenance of public areas
   
93.04   Receptacles
§ 93.01  LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or
sidewalk or on any private property, except with written permission of the
owner or occupant of the private property, any trash, refuse, garbage, building
material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper or any type of litter.
(1993 Code, § 82.01)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02  LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place within
the town or on private property.
(1993 Code, § 82.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03  MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast on the street or other public way.
(1993 Code, § 82.03)
§ 93.04  RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within the
meaning of §
93.03 of this chapter.  The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed
to prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other materials
deposited therein.
(1993 Code, § 82.04)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Nuisance conditions
   
94.02   Investigation
   
94.03   Notice of violation; hearing
   
94.04   Notice to abate
   
94.05   Abatement by the town
   
94.06   Costs of abatement; lien
   
94.07   Procedure not exclusive
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is declared to be dangerous and
prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of weeds or turf grass to a height in excess
of 12 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public
health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice or snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar item; and
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations or the County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  INVESTIGATION.
   The Town Administrator, upon notice from any person of the possible
existence of any of the conditions described in §
94.01, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official, or town official, such investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in 
§
94.01.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.03  NOTICE OF VIOLATION; HEARING.
   (A)   If it appears that such conditions exist, the Town Administrator may
cause to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the
condition exists, a notice stating the reasons why the conditions may
constitute a violation and that a hearing will be held before the Town
Administrator at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days
after the delivery or mailing of the notice.
   (B)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the notice and to appear in person or otherwise and give evidence at
the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to do so may attend
such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in such
hearings.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.04  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   If a determination is made at a hearing before the Town Administrator that
such conditions constituting a public nuisance exist, the Town Administrator
shall notify, in writing, the owner of the premises in question of the
conditions constituting such public nuisance and shall order the prompt
abatement thereof or payment of the costs of the removal or abatement within 15
days from the receipt of such written notice.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.05  ABATEMENT BY THE TOWN.
   (A)   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Administrator shall
cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by removing or
otherwise abating the nuisance under the supervision of any officer, employee
or independent contractor designated by the Town Administrator.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within
the time allowed by this chapter, request the town, in writing, to remove such
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.06  COSTS OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred and a $100 civil penalty by the town in
removing or otherwise remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner
of such lot or parcel of land and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to
mail a statement of such charges to the owner or other person in possession of
the premises with instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30
days from the receipt thereof.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
provided for in §
94.04, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.07  PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   After three hearings in a five-year period, the Town Administrator may
direct the Chief of Police or his or her agent to notify that property owner,
in writing, of the nuisance condition as described in §
94.01 and advise property owner that corrective action is required within ten
days of the postmark date of the letter to correct the nuisance condition.
   (B)   Should corrective action not be taken by the property owner within the
ten-day period, the property owner shall be considered in violation of this
chapter and shall receive a citation for said violation.
   (C)   Until such time corrective action to the nuisance condition is
corrected, each day shall constitute a new violation and shall be subject to
additional citations. Notice as described herein shall be required for the
additional citation.
   (D)   Fine for violations described in §
94.01 shall be $50 per citation plus court costs.
(Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Establishment; administration
   
95.02   Rules and regulations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  ESTABLISHMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   There is hereby established a park to be known as Dees Memorial Park for use
as a recreational area on the land owned by the town as shown on Exhibit A
attached to the ordinance passed 11-13-1990. The Town Administrator shall have
general supervision, administration and control over all matters pertaining to
the park. He or she shall possess the duty and responsibility to formulate, in
compliance with existing village ordinances, the rules, regulations and
policies that shall govern the use of the park and may recommend and propose to
the Board of Commissioners any matter relating to the use and maintenance of
the park.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
§ 95.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations for the use of the recreation park as established in §
95.01 are as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to be present
in or to use the park in any manner between sunset and sunrise without first
obtaining authorization from the Town Administrator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw,
deposit or otherwise place or cause to be thrown, deposited or otherwise placed
on or in the park any paper, glass, cans, garbage, trash or refuse of any kind
other than in a properly designated refuse basket.
   (C)   No motorized vehicles, including but not limited to, automobiles,
trucks, motorbikes, motorcycles, scooters or minibikes shall be allowed in or
used in the park except in the designated parking area.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to violate
this chapter.  Every person convicted for the violation of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $50 or by imprisonment for not more than
30 days.  In the event any provision of this chapter is violated by a
corporation, the officer, agent or employee thereof who violates such provision
or who procures, aids or abets such violation, shall be subject to the same
penalties as if he or she himself or herself committed the violation.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1990; Ord. passed 10-3-2005)
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERIES
Section
   
96.01   Purchase of cemetery lots; lot changes
   
96.02   Burial permit; digging of graves
   
96.03   Superintendent; appointment; duties
   
96.04   Trees and shrubs; other improvements
   
96.05   Deposit of materials prohibited; prohibited acts
   
96.06   Vehicles regulated
   
96.07   Lot rules and regulations
   
96.08   Fees
§ 96.01  PURCHASE OF CEMETERY LOTS; LOT CHANGES.
   (A)   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town cemetery shall
apply to the Clerk, who, on payment of the fixed price for each lot, shall
cause a deed or other instrument of receipt therefor to be given to the
purchaser.
   (B)   The cost of lots in the cemetery shall be as from time to time
established by the Board.
(1993 Code, § 42.01)
§ 96.02  BURIAL PERMIT; DIGGING OF GRAVES.
   (A)   No person shall be buried in the cemetery without there first having
been obtained from the town a burial permit for the person who is to be buried
in the cemetery.
   (B)   All  graves  shall  be dug under the  supervision of the
Superintendent.
(1993 Code, § 42.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03  SUPERINTENDENT; APPOINTMENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Administrator shall serve as Superintendent of the
cemetery, to serve as such at the will of the Board.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have such powers and duties as shall be
conferred on him or her by this chapter and any ordinance, resolution or order
of the Board at any time hereafter adopted or made. 
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have charge  of the upkeep, protection  and
preservation of the cemetery; he or she shall supervise the digging of all
graves; the interment and disinterment of bodies; the erection of monuments and
markers; supervise the planting of any and all shrubbery, trees and flowers and
make provision for the entrance and exit of persons and vehicles to and from
the cemetery; provided, however, the Superintendent shall not contract any debt
or expend any money without first having obtained the consent and approval of
the Board.
(1993 Code, § 42.03)
§ 96.04  TREES AND SHRUBS; OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall plant or set any tree, shrub, flower, grass or other
plant of any kind in the cemetery except with the approval of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The pruning or cutting of all trees and shrubbery is prohibited unless
done under the  immediate supervision of the Superintendent.
   (C)   All grading,  landscaping and improvements of every kind shall be made
or done by the town only.
(1993 Code, § 42.04)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05  DEPOSIT OF MATERIALS PROHIBITED; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste or other unclean or
unsightly substance in the cemetery.
   (B)   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of the
cemetery, nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure or destroy any
tree, plant or shrub therein except in the manner herein provided. Trespassing
within the cemetery is prohibited and no person shall commit any immoral act
therein under penalty of the law herein prescribed.
(1993 Code, § 42.05)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06  VEHICLES REGULATED.
   Vehicles shall be driven only on the roadways within the cemetery and at a
rate of speed not in excess of 15 mph. No vehicle shall enter the cemetery
except for the purpose of attending funerals, visiting graves or other lawful
mission.
(1993 Code, § 42.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07  LOT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All lots within the cemetery of the town and within any extension of
the cemetery at any time hereafter made, shall be subject to and regulated and
controlled by the provisions of this chapter and any rules adopted by the town.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to be
present in or to use the cemetery in any manner between sunset and sunrise
without first obtaining authorization from the Town Administrator.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to throw,
deposit or otherwise place or cause to be thrown, deposited or otherwise placed
on or in the cemetery any paper, glass, cans, garbage, trash or refuse of any
kind other than in a properly designated refuse basket.
      (3)   No motorized vehicles, including but not limited to, automobiles,
trucks, motorbikes, motorcycles, scooters or minibikes shall be allowed in or
used in the cemetery except in the designated parking area.
   (B)   The following rules and regulations for the use of Sections 2 and 3 of
the Pikeville Cemetery are hereby adopted.
      (1)   All head stones shall be placed as near as possible to the west lot
line of each cemetery lot.
      (2)   All foot stones or foot markers shall be placed no more than eight
feet from the west lot line of each cemetery lot so that there shall remain two
feet of space that is available as a walkway at the east end of each cemetery
lot.
      (3)   Cemetery lots which on the effective date of this division (B)
become nonconforming with respect to the requirements set forth herein shall be
brought into conformity within 90 days of the effective date of this division
(B). If a lot is not brought into compliance within 90 days of the effective
date of this division by the owner of the cemetery lot, then the town shall
take such action as is necessary to bring the lot into compliance and the cost
of bringing the lots into compliance shall be borne by the town.
      (4)   A copy of this division (B) shall be mailed by the Town
Administrator to all owners of cemetery lots whose lots are not in compliance
with the regulations adopted herein whose address can be reasonably determined
by the Town Administrator.
      (5)   After the effective date of the ordinance passed 9-8-1992,
mausoleums shall not be located on any lot other than lots 208, 209, 210, 211
and 213 of Section 3. No mausoleum already in place shall be required to be
moved.
   (C)   In the event any provision of this chapter is violated by a
corporation, the officer, agent or employee thereof who violates such provision
or who procures, aids or abets such violation, shall be subject to the same
penalties as if he or she himself or herself committed the violation.
   (D)   There shall be no trespassing within a buffer of 200 feet of any outer
boundaries of the cemetery, except on the west side of the cemetery along
Cemetery Road. This restriction shall include but not be limited to grave
diggers, funeral home personnel and visitors to the cemetery, by any and all
means of egress. There shall be no disbursing of dirt, nor discarding of trash
or other noxious materials of the aforementioned 200-foot buffer.
(1993 Code, § 42.07)  (Ord. passed 1-7-1991; Ord. passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 13-103,
passed 7-9-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08  FEES.
   (A)   One plot: $400;
   (B)   Two plots: $800; and
   (C)   Three plots: $1,200.
(Ord. 4201, passed 6-1-2003)
CHAPTER 97: TREE MAINTENANCE
Section
   
97.01   Tree permit required for trimming and removal
   
97.02   Contracted tree service
   
97.03   Definition
   
97.04   Home owner responsibilities
   
97.05   Enforcement
§ 97.01  TREE PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TRIMMING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   A town permit will be required for all contracted tree trimming and
removal. A permit will be issued at no charge.
   (B)   A permit will be issued at Town Office Monday through Friday between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.02  CONTRACTED TREE SERVICE.
   All contracted tree service will require removal of all material by
contractor.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.03  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person with a commercial license and being paid by property
owner for tree service.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.04  HOME OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Home owners will be responsible for all damages to town owned
utilities. Any service required by the Utility Department will be charged to
the owner.
   (B)   All tree work done by property owners are required to place all limbs
at roadside. Limbs will be no larger than two-inch diameter and no longer than
six feet.  Logs/trunk size is limited to 50 pounds.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department will be responsible for enforcement of permit during
weekend and holidays.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 98: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Fire limits
   
98.02   Fire Prevention Code
Open Burning
   
98.15   Purpose, scope and impermissible burning
   
98.16   Definitions
   
98.17   Permissible open burning without a permit
   
98.18   Air curtain burners
   
98.19   Regional office locations
   
98.20   Delegation to county governments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01  FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   The primary fire limits of the town shall be that territory within the
town as outlined on a copy of the Tax Map for the town attached hereto as the
ordinance codified within and hereby incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The products shall be prohibited within the primary fire limits as
established by this chapter: above ground tanks containing fuel, oil, gasoline
or petroleum.
(Ord. passed 5-1-1989)
§ 98.02  FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the State Fire Prevention Code North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume V - Fire Prevention. This Code is adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein and from the date of which this chapter
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the town.
(1993 Code, § 31.10)
   (B)   The Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Town Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 31.11)
OPEN BURNING
§ 98.15  PURPOSE, SCOPE AND IMPERMISSIBLE BURNING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to control air pollution
resulting from the open burning of combustible materials.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   This section applies to all operations involving open burning. This
section does not authorize any open burning which is a crime under G.S. §§ 14-
136 through 14-140.1 or affect the authority of the Division of Forest
Resources to issue or deny permits for open burning in or adjacent to woodlands
as provided in G.S. §§ 106-940 through 106-950. This section does not affect
the authority of any local government to regulate open burning through its fire
codes or other ordinances.
      (2)   The issuance of any open burning permit by the Division of Forest
Resources or any local government does not relieve any person from the
necessity of complying with this section or any other air quality rule.
   (C)   Impermissible open burning. A person shall not cause, allow or permit
open burning of combustible material except as allowed by §
98.17 or as covered by a permit issued under §
98.18 of this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR CURTAIN BURNER. A stationary or portable combustion device that directs
a plane of high velocity forced draft air through a manifold head into a pit
with vertical walls in such a manner as to maintain a curtain of air over the
surface of the pit and a recirculating motion of air under the curtain.
   DANGEROUS MATERIALS. Explosives or containers used in the holding or
transporting of explosives.
   HHCB.  The Health Hazards Control Branch of the Division of Epidemiology.
   LAND CLEARING. The uprooting or clearing of vegetation in connection with
construction for buildings; right-of-way; agricultural, residential, commercial
or industrial development; mining activities; or the initial clearing of
vegetation to enhance property value; but does not include routine maintenance
or property clean-up activities.
   LOG. Any limb or trunk whose diameter exceeds six inches.
   NUISANCE. Causing physical irritation exacerbating a documented medical
condition, visibility impairment or evidence of soot or ash on property or
structure other than the property on which the burning is done.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. A building in which people may live or work or one
intended for housing farm or other domestic animals.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter in such a manner that the products
of combustion resulting from the burning are emitted directly into the
atmosphere without passing through a stack, chimney or a permitted air
pollution control device.
   PERSON. As used in §
98.15, means:
      (1)   The person in operational control over the open burning; or
      (2)   The landowner or person in possession or control of the land when
he or she has directly or indirectly allowed the open burning or has benefitted
from it.
   PUBLIC PICK-UP. The removal of refuse, yard trimmings, limbs or other plant
material from a residence by a governmental agency, private company contracted
by a governmental agency or municipal service.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road that is part of the state highway system; or any road,
street or right-of-way dedicated or maintained for public use.
   RACM. Regulated asbestos containing material as defined in 40 C.F.R. §
61.141.
   REFUSE. Any garbage, rubbish or trade waste.
   REGIONAL OFFICE SUPERVISOR. The supervisor of personnel of the Division of
Air Quality in a regional office of the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   SALVAGEABLE ITEMS. Any product or material that was first discarded or
damaged and then, all or part, was saved for future use and includes insulated
wire, electric motors and electric transformers.
   SYNTHETIC MATERIAL. Human-made material, including tires, asphalt materials
such as shingles or asphaltic roofing materials, construction materials,
packaging for construction materials, wire, electrical insulation and treated
or coated wood.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.17  PERMISSIBLE OPEN BURNING WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   All open burning is prohibited except open burning allowed under
division (B) below or §
98.18.
   (B)   The following types of open burning are permissible without a permit:
      (1)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches or yard trimmings, excluding
logs and stumps, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The material burned originates on the premises of private
residences and is burned on those premises;
         (b)   There are no public pickup services available;
         (c)   Non-vegetative materials, such as household garbage or other
human-made materials are not burned;
         (d)   The burning is started no earlier than 8:00 a.m. and no
additional combustible material is added to the fire between 6:00 p.m. on one
day and 8:00 a.m. on the following day;
         (e)   The burning does not create a nuisance; and
         (f)   Material is not burned when the Division of Forest Resources has
banned burning for that area.
      (2)   Open burning for land clearing or right-of-way maintenance if the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   Prevailing winds at the time of burning are away from any area,
including public road within 250 feet of the burning as measured from the edge
of the pavement or other roadway surface, which may be significantly affected
by smoke, ash or other air pollutants from the burning;
         (b)   The location of the burning is at least 1,000 feet from any
dwelling, group of dwellings or commercial or institutional establishment or
other occupied structure not located on the property on which the burning is
conducted. The regional office supervisor may grant exceptions to the setback
requirements if:
            1.   A signed, written statement waiving objections to the open
burning associated with the land clearing operation is obtained before the open
burning begins from all residents or owners of dwellings, commercial or
institutional establishments or other occupied structures within 1,000 feet of
the open burning site; or
            2.   An air curtain burner as described in §
98.18 of this chapter, is utilized at the open burning site.
         (c)   Heavy oils, asphaltic materials such as shingles and other
roofing materials, items containing natural or synthetic rubber or any
materials other than plant growth are not burned. However, kerosene, distillate
oil or diesel fuel may be used to start the fire;
         (d)   Initial burning begins only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. and no combustible material is added to the fire between 6:00 p.m. on
one day and 8:00 a.m. on the following day, except that, under favorable
meteorological conditions, deviation from these hours of burning may be granted
by the regional office supervisor. The owner or operator of the open burning
operation shall be responsible for obtaining written approval for burning
during periods other than those specified in this section; and
         (e)   No fires are started or vegetation is added to existing fires
when the Division of Forest Resources has banned burning for that area. Debris
from land clearing or right-of-way maintenance may be carried off-site for open
burning to facilities permitted in accordance with §
98.16 for the operation of an air curtain burner. However, no material may be
taken off-site for open burning in areas where a permitted air curtain burner
is not available.
      (3)   Camp fires and fires used solely for outdoor cooking and other
recreational purposes or for ceremonial occasions or for human warmth and
comfort and which do not create a nuisance and do not use synthetic materials
or refuse or salvageable materials for fuel;
      (4)   Fires purposely set to forest lands for forest management practices
acceptable to the Division of Forest Resources;
      (5)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease and pest
control and fires set for other agricultural or apicultural practices
acceptable to the Department of Agriculture;
      (6)   Fires purposely set for wildlife management practices acceptable to
the Wildlife Management Commission;
      (7)   Fires for the disposal of dangerous materials when it is the safest
and most practical method of disposal;
      (8)   Fires for the disposal of material generated as a result of a
natural disaster, such as tornado, hurricane or flood if the regional office
supervisor grants permission for the burning. The person desiring to do the
burning shall document to the regional office supervisor of the appropriate
regional office that there is no other practical method of disposal of the
waste. Factors that the regional office supervisor shall consider in granting
permission for the burning include type, amount and nature of combustible
substances. The regional office supervisor shall not grant permission for the
burning if the primary purpose of the fire is to dispose of synthetic materials
or refuse or recovery of salvageable materials. Fires authorized under this
division (B)(8) shall comply with the conditions of division (B)(2) above fires
purposely set by manufacturers of fire extinguishing materials or equipment,
testing laboratories or other persons, for the purpose of testing or developing
these materials or equipment in accordance with a valid standard qualification
program;
      (9)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of fire-
fighting personnel, including fires at permanent fire-fighting training
facilities or when conducted under the supervision of or with the cooperation
of one or more of the following agencies:
         (a)   The Division of Forest Resources,
         (b) The North Carolina Insurance Department;
         (c)   North Carolina technical institutes; or
         (d)   North Carolina community colleges, including:
            1.   The North Carolina Fire College; or
            2.   The North Carolina Rescue College.
      (10)   Fires not described in division (H) above, purposely set for the
instruction and training of fire-fighting personnel, provided that:
         (a)    The regional office supervisor of the appropriate regional
office and the HHCB have been notified according to the procedures and
deadlines contained in the appropriate regional notification form. This form
may be obtained by writing the appropriate regional office at the address in §
98.19 of this chapter and requesting it and
         (b)   The regional office supervisor has granted permission for the
burning. Factors that the regional office supervisor shall consider in granting
permission for the burning include type, amount and nature of combustible
substances. The regional office supervisor shall not grant permission for the
burning of salvageable items, such as insulated wire and electric motors or if
the primary purpose of the fire is to dispose of synthetic materials or refuse.
The regional office supervisor of the appropriate regional office shall not
consider previously demolished structures as having training value. However,
the regional office supervisor of the appropriate regional office may allow an
exercise involving the burning of motor vehicles burned over a period of time
by a training unit or by several related training units. Any deviations from
the dates and times of exercises, including additions, postponements and
deletions, submitted in the schedule in the approved plan shall be communicated
verbally to the regional office supervisor of the appropriate regional office
at least one hour before the burn is scheduled.
         (c)   The authority to conduct open burning under this division (B)
(10) does not exempt or excuse any person from the consequences, damages or
injuries which may result from this conduct. It does not excuse or exempt any
person from complying with all applicable laws ordinances, rules or orders of
any other governmental entity having jurisdiction even though the open burning
is conducted in compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.18  AIR CURTAIN BURNERS.
   (A)   Air permits shall not be required for air curtain burners located at
temporary land clearing or right-of-way maintenance sites for less than nine
months. However, air permits shall be required for air curtain burners located
at permanent sites or where materials are transported in from another site.
   (B)   Air curtain burners described in division (A) above and shall comply
with the following conditions and stipulations.
      (1)   Prevailing winds at the time of burning shall be away from any
area, including public road within 250 feet of the burning as measured from the
edge of the pavement or other roadway surface, which may be significantly
affected by smoke, ash or other air pollutants from the burning.
      (2)   Only collected land clearing and yard waste materials may be
burned. Heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items containing natural or synthetic
rubber, tires, grass clippings, collected leaves, paper products, plastics,
general trash, garbage or any materials containing painted or treated wood
materials shall not be burned. Leaves still on trees or brush may be burned.
      (3)   No fires shall be started or material added to existing fires when
the Division of Forest Resources has banned burning for that area.
      (4)   Burning shall be conducted only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m.
      (5)   The air curtain burner shall not be operated more than the maximum
source operating hours-per-day and days-per-week. The maximum source operating
hours-per-day and days-per-week shall be set to protect the ambient air quality
standard and prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) increment for
particulate. If the air curtain burner will:
         (a)   Burn  35 tons of material per day or more in an area were the
particulate baseline date for the PSD has been triggered; or
         (b)   Burn 210 tons of material per day or more in an area where the
particulate baseline date for PSD has not been triggered, the maximum source
operating hours-per-day and days-per-week shall be determined using the
modeling procedures in 15A NCAC 2D .1106(b), (c) and (f). This division (B)(5)
shall not apply to temporary air curtain burners.
      (6)   Operators of the air curtain burner shall be certified to read
visible emissions and the facility shall be tested for visible emissions within
90 days after initial operation and within 90 days before permit expiration.
      (7) Air curtain burners shall meet manufacturers specifications for
operation and upkeep to ensure complete burning of material charged into the
pit. Manufacturers specifications shall be kept on site and be available for
inspection by Division staff.
      (8)   Except during start-up, visible emissions shall not exceed 5%
opacity when averaged over a six-minute period except that one six-minute
period with an average opacity of more than 5% but no more than 35 % shall be
allowed for any one-hour period. During start-up, the visible emissions shall
not exceed 35% opacity when averaged over a six-minute period. Start-up shall
not last for more than 30 minutes and there shall be no more than one start-up
per day.
      (9)   The owner or operator of an air curtain burner shall not allow ash
to build up in the pit to a depth higher than one-third of the depth of the pit
or to the point where the ash begins to impede combustion, whichever occurs
first. The owner or operator of an air curtain burner shall water the ash prior
to its removal to prevent the ash from becoming airborne.
      (10)   The owner or operator of an air curtain burner shall not load
material into the air curtain burner such that it will protrude above the air
curtain.
      (11)   Only distillate oil, kerosene, diesel fuel, natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas may be used to start the fire.
      (12)   The location of the burning at temporary sites shall be at least
500 feet from any dwelling, group of dwellings or commercial or institutional
establishment or other occupied structure not located on the property on which
the burning is conducted.
   (C)   Compliance with this section does not relieve any owner or operator of
an air curtain burner from the necessity of complying with other rules in this
chapter or any other air quality rules.
   (D)   The owner or operator of an air curtain burner at a permanent site
shall keep a daily log of specific materials burned and amounts of material
burned in pounds per hour and tons per year. The owner or operator of an air
curtain burner at a temporary site shall keep a log of total number of tons
burned per temporary site.
   (E)   Burners that have the potential to burn 15,000 tons of material or
more per year may be subject to 15A NCAC 2Q .0500, Title V Procedures.
   (F)   Burners that burn 38,000 tons per year or more may be subject to 15A
NCAC 2D .0530, Prevention of Significant Deterioration.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 98.19  REGIONAL OFFICE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Inquiries, requests and plans shall be handled by the appropriate
Department of Environmental, Health and Natural Resources regional offices.
   (B)   They are:
      (1)   Asheville Regional Office, Interchange Building, 59 Woodfin Place,
Asheville, North Carolina 28801;
      (2)   Winston-Salem Regional Office, 585 Waughtown Street, Winston-Salem,
North Carolina 27107;
      (3)   Mooresville Regional Office, 919 North Main Street, Mooresville,
North Carolina 28115;
      (4)   Raleigh Regional Office, 3800 Barrett Drive, Raleigh, North
Carolina 27611;
      (5)   Fayetteville Regional Office, Wachovia Building, Suite 714,
Fayetteville, North Carolina 28301;
      (6)   Washington Regional Office, 1424 Carolina Avenue, Farish Building,
Washington, North Carolina 27889; and
      (7)   Wilmington Regional Office, 127 Cardinal Drive Extension,
Wilmington, North Carolina 28405.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:  
   Authority G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(l)
§ 98.20  DELEGATION TO COUNTY GOVERNMENTS.
   (A)   The governing body of any county or municipality or group of counties
or municipalities may establish a partial air pollution control program to
implement and enforce this section provided that:
      (1)   It has the administrative organization, staff, financial and other
resources necessary to carry out such a program;
      (2)   It has adopted appropriate ordinances, resolutions and regulations
to establish and maintain such a program; and
      (3)   It has otherwise complied with G.S. § 143-215.112, “Local Air
Pollution Control Programs.”
   (B)   The governing body shall submit to the Director documentation
demonstrating that the requirements of division (A) above have been met. Within
90 days after receiving the submittal from the governing body, the Director
shall review the documentation to determine if the requirements of division (A)
above have been met and shall present his or her findings to the Commission. If
the Commission determines that the air pollution program is adequate, it shall
certify the local air pollution program to implement and enforce this section
within its area of jurisdiction.
   (C)   County governments shall not have the authority to issue permits for
air curtain burners at a permanent site as defined in 15A NCAC 2D .1904.
   (D)   The three certified local air pollution programs, the Western North
Carolina Regional Air Pollution Control Agency, the Forsyth County
Environmental Affairs Department and the Mecklenburg County Department of
Environmental Affairs, shall continue to enforce open burning rules as part of
their local air pollution programs.
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 143-215.3(a)(l) and 143-215.112
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
113.   GAME ROOMS
CHAPTER 110: COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Serial numbers required
   
110.03   Town Administrator compliance
   
110.04   Allowable locations
   
110.05   Rules of operation
   
110.06   Adult manager required on premises
   
110.07   Licensee responsibilities
Licensing
   
110.20   Privilege license fees
   
110.21   Failure to pay or to obtain a regulatory license
   
110.22   License required
   
110.23   Application; form, filing, contents, fees and investigation
   
110.24   Determination of application
   
110.25   Issuance and display of license
   
110.26   Notification of change in applicant information
   
110.27   Voidance
   
110.28   Grounds for revocation
   
110.29   Appeal on denial or revocation of license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPUTER. Any electronic machines, including computers, used as game
promotions or amusement subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   COMPUTER GAMING ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   Any business enterprise utilizing one or more computers as game
promotions or for amusement. In a game promotion, a person may conduct a game
of chance in connection with the sale of consumer products or services and/or
for which the elements of chance and prize are present. This term includes, but
is not limited to, internet sweepstakes, internet cafes and cybercafes.
      (2)   This definition only applies where a machine emits, issues,
displays, prints out or otherwise records any receipt, paper coupon, token or
other form of record which is capable of being redeemed, exchanged or
repurchased for cash, cash equivalent prizes, sendees or any other item of
value, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds. This includes a system which
invites patrons to purchase prepaid internet access cards that also allow them
to use computer terminals with gaming software as an ancillary benefit.
      (3)   This term does not include any lottery approved by the state.
   DEPARTMENT. The Pikeville Police Department.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any person who is an applicant for a license or who is a
partner in a partnership with an employee of any applicant for a license and
any person, partnership or corporation which is an officer, director or
principal stockholder of an entity which is an applicant for a license.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.02  SERIAL NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   As part of the licensing procedure, the operator shall provide the
serial number of each and every computer in the establishment. The serial
numbers of computers placed into service after the license is granted (and the
additional privilege license fees) shall be provided to the Town Clerk prior to
any use of the machine.
   (B)   Computers that are removed from the establishment shall be reported,
with their serial numbers, to the Town Clerk; any replacement computer shall be
reported, with the serial numbers of the original and replacement machines, to
the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.03  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR COMPLIANCE.
   The Town Administrator shall ensure that the regulations contained herein
shall be enforced; to those ends, the Town Administrator may inspect business
establishments for compliance.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.04  ALLOWABLE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Computer gaming establishments shall be limited to the following
zoning districts and no others:
      (1)   CS - Community Shopping District; and
      (2)   D - Business District, by conditional use permit only.
   (B)   The above notwithstanding computer gaming establishments shall not be
allowed in the B - Business District bounded by N. and  S. Railroad Street, W.
Ham Street, N. and S. Mill Street and W. Vail Street and known as the Pikeville
Downtown Business District.
   (C)   The zoning regulations encompassed within this chapter shall be in
full force and effect within all areas of the town’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
   (D)   In all zoning districts where computer gaming establishments are
authorized, they may not be placed within 250 feet of any church, nor of any
public or private school, nor of any licensed daycare facility.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05  RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All computer gaming establishments shall be closed from 12:00 a.m.
until 8:00 a.m. daily except Sundays, when said establishments may not open
until 1:00 p.m.
   (B)   No playing on any computer subject to this chapter shall be allowed
during the times when computer gaming establishments are required by this
chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   No minor, 17 years of age or younger, shall be allowed to operate a
computer subject to this chapter.
   (D)   All computer gaming establishments shall comply with requirements of
G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 37.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06  ADULT MANAGER REQUIRED ON PREMISES.
   There must be an adult 18 years of age or older managing the business on the
premises of every computer gaming establishment during the hours of operation
at all times.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 11-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07  LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The acts and conduct of any interested party in the conduct of the business
of operating a computer gaming establishment shall be deemed to be the acts and
conduct of the licensee.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
LICENSING
§ 110.20  PRIVILEGE LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   A privilege license fee of $200 annually shall be required to be paid
for each and every computer connected or connectable to the internet either by
landline or wireless connection at the computer gaming establishment.
   (B)   All privilege license fees shall be due and payable on or before July
1 of each year for the ensuing 12 months. The privilege license fee for
machines placed in use between January 1 and June 30 shall be one-half of the
appropriate fee as established above.
      (1)   For the initial period between July 1, 2013, and December 31, 2013,
the appropriate privilege license fee shall be prorated as follows for these
months:
 
October, 2013  $150
November, 2013 $133.50
December, 2013 $116.50
 
      (2)   From January 1, 2014 through June 30, 2014, in accordance with
division (B) above, the fee shall be $100.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.21  FAILURE TO PAY OR TO OBTAIN A REGULATORY LICENSE.
   (A)   Failure to pay the privilege license fees required by this chapter or
failure to obtain the regulatory license required by this chapter before any
such act is required shall result in a penalty equal to 100% of the fee that is
due, in addition to the fee itself.
   (B)   Consciously and purposely hiding computers, using switching devices to
change screens in order to hide the true purpose and use of a computer or any
other ploy to hide the intended use of any computer within the establishment
shall be considered as perpetrating a fraud upon the town and shall result in
the immediate and permanent revocation of the establishment’s privilege
license.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.22  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No interested party shall operate a computer gaming establishment unless the
party shall have first applied for and received the regulatory license provided
for by this chapter. It shall be unlawful to operate a computer gaming
establishment within the town without a regulatory license as required by this
section.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23  APPLICATION; FORM, FILING, CONTENTS, FEES AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Every application for the regulatory license required by this chapter
shall be on a form approved by the Town Administrator and shall be filed with
the Town Clerk. Every application shall be made under oath and shall contain
the following application:
      (1)   The name, age and residence of all interested parties;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the business shall be located;
      (3)   The proposed hours of operation of the business;
      (4)   A complete statement of all criminal convictions of all interested
parties;
      (5)   Dimensions of land owned or controlled by the applicant as premises
for the business;
      (6)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or any adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant; and
      (7)   A statement of any prior revocations of a license of any interested
party to operate a computer gaming establishment or similar business in any
jurisdiction.
   (B)   As a part of the application process, the applicant shall, at his or
her own expense, provide a criminal background investigation of every employee
and interested party of said applicant; criminal background checks procured
through a law enforcement agency or such service as LexusNexus are acceptable.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.24  DETERMINATION OF APPLICATION.
   An application for a license required by this chapter, in proper form and
accompanied by all reports required by this chapter, shall be submitted to the
Town Administrator, who shall approve the application if he or she determines
that:
   (A)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
   (B)   No interested party has been convicted of selling intoxicating
beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana, nor of violating any gambling laws of
this state, nor of violating any comparable statute of any other state;
   (C)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building or other municipal codes; and/or
   (D)   No interested party has had revoked a previously issued license for
engaging in a business dealing with operating a computer gaming establishment
in any jurisdiction.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.25  ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon approval of the application for a license required by §
110.22 by the Town Administrator, the Town Clerk shall issue a regulatory
license to the applicant.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of all interested parties to ensure
that the license required by this chapter be prominently displayed within the
business.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.26  NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE IN APPLICANT INFORMATION.
   Any change of any of the facts stated in an application filed under this
chapter must be reported immediately to the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2 013)
§ 110.27  VOIDANCE.
   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall become void if the licensee
moves or ceases to operate at the location stated in the application for the
license.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.28  GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A regulatory license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked by
action of the Town Administrator if the Town Administrator determines that:
   (A)   The licensee or any interested party has violated any provision of
this chapter or other applicable code provision;
   (B)   The licensee or any interested party is convicted of selling
intoxicating beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana on the licensed premises or
elsewhere;
   (C)   The licensee or any interested party violates any zoning, building or
other regulation of the town’s code of ordinances as the same applies to the
premises;
   (D)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits any activity
in violation of G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 37;
   (E)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits the licensed
premises to become disorderly or permits any continued profane, obscene or
indecent language thereon;
   (F)   The licensee or any interested party suffers or permits any
intoxicating beverages, narcotic drugs or marijuana to be sold or kept or
consumed on the licensed premises; or
   (G)   The licensee or any interested party employs, in carrying on the
business, any person who has been convicted of violating any gambling laws of
the state or of any other state.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 110.29  APPEAL ON DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In the instance of the denial by the Town Administrator of an
application for a license to operate a computer gaming establishment or the
revocation of same by the Town Administrator, an aggrieved applicant or
licensee may bring all appeal to the Board of Commissioners by filing an appeal
with the Town via certified mail. An applicant shall not open and a licensee
shall remain closed, until the Board of Commissioners has ruled on the appeal.
   (B)   The appeal hearing will be scheduled for the next regularly scheduled
Commission meeting. At said hearing, the Town Administrator will present
evidence to support his or her denial or revocation; the appellant shall be
given the opportunity to present evidence in rebuttal of the evidence for
denial or revocation. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be
final.
   (C)   This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption.
(Ord. 13-104, passed 11-7-2013)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration
   
111.03   Door-to-door activities prohibited
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.  Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device, provided that any
person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance.
      (2)   Any person who uses or occupies any building or premises for the
sole purpose of taking or offering to take orders for the sale of goods for
future delivery or for personal services to be performed in  the future,
whether or not samples are displayed or money is collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises, provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(1993 Code, § 61.01)
§ 111.02  REGISTRATION.
   Each and every person doing business in the town as a peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor shall file with the Clerk, on a form to be provided for the
purpose, a statement setting forth the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of individual filing the statement;
   (B)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent or
employee;
   (C)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
   (D)   Description of individual filing statement including height, weight,
sex, age, color and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
   (E)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale or the type of services to be
rendered;
   (F)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
town; and
   (G)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business
including the make, model, body style, color and license number.
(1993 Code, § 61.02)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03  DOOR-TO-DOOR ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or transient vendor or other
seller of merchandise to go in  or on  private residences or the premises
thereof in the town without having been requested or invited to do so by the
owner or occupant for the purpose of advertising, peddling or selling
merchandise.
(1993 Code, § 61.03)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose of regulations
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Authority to employ and train personnel
   
112.04   Names of employee to be filed with Sheriff of the county
   
112.05   Employment of persons convicted of certain crimes
   
112.06   Hours of operation
   
112.07   Certain practices prescribed
   
112.08   Patronage of massage parlors by minors
   
112.09   Applicability
   
112.10   Inducement to violate ordinances or provisions of General Statues
relating to sexual misconduct
Licensing
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Qualifications of applicant for license
   
112.27   Issuance and renewal of license and payment of fees
   
112.28   Enforcement and revocation of license
   
112.29   Massages by unlicensed persons
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To protect the general health, safety, welfare and morals, following
licensing provisions hereinafter specified are ordained the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade or professional masseur or masseuse and for the
operation or carrying on businesses, trades or professions commonly known as
massage parlors, bath parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, clubs
or similar establishments by whatever name designated, wherein culture,
massage, hydrotherapy or other physical treatment of the human body is carried
on or practiced. 
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to a regularly established
and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing home or medical clinic, nor to an
office or clinic operated and regularly used by a duly qualified and licensed
medical practitioner, osteopath, or chiropractor in connection with the
practice of medicine, chiropractic, or osteopathy, provided, however, that such
office is regularly used by such medical practitioner, osteopath, or
chiropractor as the principal location for his or her practice or medicine,
chiropractic, or osteopathy.
(1993 Code, § 62.01)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MASSEUR. A male who applies manual or mechanical massage treatment to the
human body trunk or limbs.
   MASSEUSE. A female who applies manual or mechanical massage treatment to the
human body trunk or limbs.
(1993 Code, § 62.02)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.03  AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY AND TRAIN PERSONNEL.
   Any applicant granted a license hereunder shall have the authority to train
masseurs and masseuses under his or her supervision in his or her studio or
establishment, provided that the licensee shall furnish to the county, there to
be kept by such Department,  a health certificate of such employee from a
medical doctor and provided that other requirements of this chapter are met.
(1993 Code, § 62.06)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.04  NAMES OF EMPLOYEE TO BE FILED WITH SHERIFF OF THE COUNTY.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license hereunder to file with
the Sheriff of the county, the names of all employees, their home addresses,
home telephone numbers and places of employment. Changes in the list of
employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the Sheriff of the
county within three business days from the date of any such change.
(1993 Code, § 62.07)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.05  EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS CONVICTED OF CERTAIN CRIMES.
   (A)   No establishment licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall
employ or continue the employment of any person convicted within three years of
a violation of this chapter or any state or local statute prohibiting
prostitution, lewdness or indecent exposure or any crime involving moral
turpitude on the part of such person.
      (1)   Any person refused employment or discharged under the provisions of
this section shall be given notice of the reason for such refusal and afforded 
an  opportunity  to  be  heard  by  the  Board  of Commissioners in protest of
the accuracy of a report of conviction.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of the county to check the
names and other identifying data of employees submitted by establishments
regulated by this chapter against available records of convictions in courts of
this and the several states and the United States and inform such establishment
of the existence of records of convictions of any of its current or prospective
employees. 
   (B)   It shall be the duty of any owner, officer or employee to provide any
reasonable data, including fingerprints, to assist the Sheriff in the
performance of his or her duties.  Failure to so assist the Sheriff is just
cause for denial or revocation of a license granted under this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 62.08)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975) 
§ 112.06  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur or masseuse or any person or party engaging the businesses
licensed by this chapter shall engage in such trade, profession, occupation or
calling except within and between hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; nor shall
any operator of a massage parlor or establishment or business above enumerated
and not specifically excepted hereunder, operate the same except between the
aforesaid hours.
(1993 Code, § 62.10)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07  CERTAIN PRACTICES PRESCRIBED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in the business, trade or
profession of masseur or masseuse  or any of such person or any customers or
member of an establishment requiring licensing under the provisions of this
chapter to engage in the  following practices on or about the premises of such
an establishment:
   (A)   To offer or provide a massage to any person, without having a
currently valid license to do so, except when under the supervision as an
employee or trainee of a person with a currently valid license;
   (B)   To touch, manipulate, uncover or otherwise have physical contact with
the genital organs of any person, whether directly or indirectly or whether
such organs are covered or not;
   (C)   To go or lie about such establishment without the genital organs being
covered at all times;
   (D)   To provide or accomplish massages or any treatment offered by the
establishment in private areas, which for the purpose of this provision are
defined as areas designed to accommodate only a single customer or member and a
single masseur or masseuse and in which the activities of such persons cannot
be seen by a “supervisor” without opening a door or window or using a peephole
or some similar device denying normal vision; and/or
   (E)   To operate or maintain an establishment requiring a license under the
provisions of this chapter without posting in readable print in permanent
places inside the establishment notice of the practices which are declared
unlawful under this section and §
112.08.
(1993 Code, § 62.11)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08  PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE PARLORS BY MINORS.
   (A)   Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to
patronize any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless
such person carries with him or her at the time of such patronage a written
order directing the treatment to be signed by a regularly licensed physician.
   (B)   Duty of operator.  It shall be the duty of the operator of such
massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder to determine and
have verification of the age of the person patronizing such establishments and
violation of this section shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of
the establishment.
(1993 Code, § 62.12)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter with respect to the original issuance of
license shall not apply to those engaged in the businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings enumerated above who have  been so engaged
in the county for a period of three years or more prior to the adoption of this
chapter; provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter  shall apply to
all such businesses, trades, professions, occupations or callings shall be
properly licensed as provided herein within 20 days of the effective date of
this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 62.14)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.10  INDUCEMENT TO VIOLATE ORDINANCES OR PROVISIONS OF GENERAL STATUES
RELATING TO SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to induce a licensee or employee or
agent thereof to violate this chapter or any provision of the general statutes
of the state involving sexual misconduct including but not limited to G.S. §§
14-177 through 202.1, (Offenses Against Public Morality and Decency), Art. 26,
and G.S. §§ 14-203 through 208, Art. 27 (Prostitution).
(1993 Code, § 62.15)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.25  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the business, trade or profession of
masseur or masseuse or the operation or carrying on of any of the businesses,
trades, professions, occupations or callings mentioned in §
112.02 shall, before engaging in such business, trade, profession, occupation
or calling, file an application for a license addressed to the County Tax
Collector.
   (B)   Such application shall be in writing and shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant. If such applicant is a corporation,
the address or addresses of such corporation and its officers; and
      (2)   Qualifications.  These must be plainly stated and must be submitted
together with required exhibits annexed to said application proving such
qualifications.
(1993 Code, § 62.03)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.26  QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant hereunder, prior to making application for a license, must have
the following qualifications.
   (A)   The applicant may be male or female and shall be required provide
written recommendations showing proof of good moral character; and, in case the
applicant is a corporation, such corporation must be created in or domesticated
by the laws of the state and the officers thereof shall provide written
recommendations showing proof of moral character.
   (B)   Each applicant must furnish a health certificate from a medical doctor
which shall accompany such application as an exhibit.
      (1)   Such health certificate shall be furnished for each massuer or
masseuse who will be actually working under said license.
      (2)   Each employee who begins work as a masseur or masseuse following
original issuance of a license under this chapter shall likewise obtain a
health certificate.
      (3)   A copy of the application and all certificates shall be furnished
to the Sheriff of the county. The medical doctor must be licensed to practice
in the state.
(1993 Code, § 62.04)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.27  ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE AND PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   After submission of an application and  application by the County Tax
Collector and upon payment to the County Tax Collector of an examination fee of
$500 for each masseur or masseuse in excess of three trained by the licensee on
such premises, the county shall issue a license to the applicant.
   (B)   Each license shall be valid for the calender  year in which  issued,
expiring on December 31 of the year of issued.
   (C)   Each license may be renewed from calendar to calendar year by
submission of a renewal application to the County Tax Collector at least 30
days prior to the expiration date of the license. After approval of said
application and upon payment to the County Tax Collector of a renewal
examination fee in the same amount as prescribed for initial applications, the
County Tax Collector shall issue to the applicant a renewal certificate which
shall validate the applicant’s license for an additional calendar year.
   (D)   Approval of an application for issue or renewal of a license by the
County Tax Collector shall be granted if he or she is satisfied as to the
qualifications of the applicant, the correctness of the information contained
in his or her application and the good moral character if the applicant is a
corporation. If the license is denied because he or she is not so satisfied,
the applicant shall be notified of the denial and the reason therefor and, upon
his or her request at the reasonable convenience of the Board of 
Commissioners, the applicant shall be granted an opportunity to appear before
said Board and be heard in defense of his or her application. After such
hearing, the Board may grant or deny the license.
   (E)   If the business to be licensed pursuant to this chapter is carried on
at two or more separate places, a separate county license for each place or
location of such business shall be required.
   (F)   The county license issued under this chapter shall be and constitute a
personal privilege to conduct the profession or business named in the license
and shall not be transferable to any other person and shall be construed to
limit the person named in the licence conducting the profession or business and
exercising the privilege named in the license to the location specified in the
license provided, if the holder of a license under this chapter moves business
for which a license has been obtained to another location, a new license may be
issued to the licensee at a new location, for the balance of the license year,
upon surrender of the original license for cancellation.
   (G)   Revocation of a license shall not be cause for a refund of any fee
paid for issuance or renewal of a license.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to willfully to make a false statement in an
application for a license or request for renewal of license under the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Every license and renewal of license issued shall show on the face
thereof the name of the licensee, the nature of the business, the location
thereof, the time it was issued and payment of the privilege tax.
   (J)   Licenses shall be kept posted where business is carried on. No person
shall engage in any business or trade for which the issuance of a license
pursuant to this chapter is required without having such license posted
conspicuously at the place where such business or trade is carried on.
(1993 Code, § 62.05)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28  ENFORCEMENT AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff of the county to inspect
periodically the premises licensed under this chapter or an owner, to determine
any violations of its provisions and to otherwise enforce this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Upon acquiring substantial and reasonable evidence that an
establishment requiring licensing under this chapter or an owner, officer or
employee of such establishment, has violated a provision of  this chapter, that
a crime involving violence or moral turpitude been committed by owners,
officers, employees, customers or members or guests on the premises of such
establishment or that acts defined as nuisances under state or local statute
have occurred on or about the premises of such establishment and upon acquiring
information of a conviction of any owner, officer, employee, customer, member
or guest of such establishment for the aforementioned violations, crimes and
acts or nuisance, the Sheriff shall notify the Board of County Commissioners of
such evidence or conviction.
      (2)   The Board of County Commissioners shall then determine if there is
sufficient danger to the morals, public health, safety or general welfare of
the citizens and residents of the county to warrant revocation of the license
of the establishment concerned. Upon determination that there is probable cause
for revocation and after notification to the licensee of such determination and
the reasons therefor, the Board of Commissioners shall schedule a hearing at
which the licensee or his or her representative shall be afforded an
opportunity to show good cause why his or her license should not be revoked.
Upon licensee’s failure to show such good cause, the Board of County
Commissioners shall revoke such license.
   (C)   In addition to the other requirements as to  health certificates
herein provided for, each masseur, masseuse or other person who actually works
under said license, shall have his or her health certificate renewed every 90
days and provide the County Tax Collector a copy thereof.  Said health
certificate must be signed by a medical doctor licensed to practice in the
state.  Any person purporting to operate under a license issued hereunder
without a current health certificate as described in this division (C) is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1993 Code, § 62.09)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29  MASSAGES BY UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   Massages as permitted by this chapter may be given by persons not holding a
license as masseur or masseuse only if such massages given under the direct
supervision of a person having a license as a masseur or masseuse who shall be
in the same room where being administered during the entire time of the giving
of the massage.
(1993 Code, § 62.13)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any provision, rule or regulation of this
chapter he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
punished as prescribed by G.S. § 14-4. Each day that any person shall continue
to do any act in violation of any such provision, rule or regulation shall be
and constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(1992 Code, § 62.99)  (Res. passed 7-7-1975)
CHAPTER 113:  GAME ROOMS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Licenses required
   
113.03   Restrictions
   
113.04   Prohibited conduct
   
113.05   Rules for operation
   
113.06   Removal to another location
   
113.07   Revocation of license
§ 113.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAME ROOM. Any place of business which receives more than 50 of its gross
revenues from mechanical or video games, play devices or tables  for which
charge  is made either directly or indirectly. Examples of GAME ROOMS, by way
of illustration and not limitation, are: poolrooms, bowling alleys, billiard
halls, amusement centers, video game rooms and the like.
(1993 Code, § 60.01)  (Ord. passed  - -)
§ 113.02  LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every operator of a game room shall be required to pay a privilege
license tax in accordance with the  privilege ordinance.
   (B)   In addition, every operator of a game room shall apply for and obtain
a license from the Board to operate a game room.
   (C)   Application for such shall be made upon forms provided by the Town
Clerk.
   (D)   An application fee of $50 shall be paid to and collected by the Town
Clerk when the application is submitted plus $5 for each video game operating
on the premises to cover the cost of administration of this chapter. From time
to time, as video games are added, the $5 per machine shall be remitted to the
Town Clerk prior to permitting the machine to be used by customers.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room without a license as
required by division (B) above.
(1993 Code, § 60.02)  (Ord. passed  -  -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03  RESTRICTIONS.
   The Board shall not issue a license to any who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Is not a resident of North Carolina;
   (C)   Is of immoral character; or
   (D)   Is an habitual user of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(1993 Code, § 60.03)
§ 113.04  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not and neither shall their employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football or other parlay cards or gambling
boards or devices;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly or permit
any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
   (D)   Suffer or permit the sale of any narcotic drugs or controlled
substance on the premises or on the sidewalk immediately adjacent thereto;
   (E)   Suffer or permit any customer to urinate or defecate on the sidewalk
or any area immediately adjacent to the premises;
   (F)   Suffer or permit the use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs on
the premises or on the sidewalk immediately adjacent thereto; and/or
   (G)   Suffer or permit littering on the premises or on the sidewalk
immediately adjacent thereto.
(1993 Code, § 60.04)  (Ord. passed  -  -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05  RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms within
the town.
   (A)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00
p.m. to 9:00 a.m., Monday through Thursday, and shall be closed from 11:00 p.m.
on Fridays to 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays, and shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. on
Saturdays to 9:00 a.m. on Mondays.
   (B)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game rooms
are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building facing
any street, so that a clear view inside the street.
   (D)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where games are played and the rear
wall of such room so that a clear view of the interior may be had from the
street.
   (E)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (F)   There must be an adult (18 years of age or older) managing the
business on the premises at all times during the hours of operation.
(1993 Code, § 60.05)  (Ord. passed  -  - )  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06  REMOVAL TO ANOTHER LOCATION.
   The  removal  from  one  location  to  another  of  any  business designated
above shall be deemed as the granting of a new license and the provisions of
this chapter regarding new licenses shall apply in all respects to the removal
of any game room, heretofore licensed and in operation from its present
location where it was operating when its last license was issued to any other
or different location within the town. An application for removal shall contain
the address a location where the business is then being operated and also the
address of the new location where applicant desires to remove same.
(1993 Code, § 60.06)
§ 113.07  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   After giving the operator of a game room written notice at five days prior
to a meeting of the Town Board and after allowing the operator an opportunity
to be heard by the Board, the Board may revoke the license of any game room
operator who:
   (A)   Violates the provisions of §§
113.04 or
113.05;
   (B)   Is convicted of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic
drugs; and/or
   (C)   Employs another person who has been convicted of unlawfully selling
alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(1993 Code, § 60.07)  (Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.03   Injuring town property
   
130.04   Unnecessary noise
   
130.05   Public drinking
   
130.06   Blocking drains or ditches
   
130.07   Bicycles and skateboards; forbidden on sidewalks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharge prohibited; exception. It shall be unlawful for any person
to shoot or discharge or to cause to be shot or discharged, within the
corporate limits or on any municipal owned property of the town any firearms or
any air rifle, gun or pistol or any spring gun, slingshot, bow or similar
device which impels with force a shot, arrow or pellet of any kind, except when
the same is done in defense of person or property in a manner excusable under
state law or at military funerals and other public events under proper
supervision of the Police Department. In the event that anything in this
section shall conflict with any penalties imposed under any federal law, said
federal law shall control.
   (B)   Confiscation authorized. The Chief of Police or any member of the
Police Department is hereby authorized to seize and hold subject to order of
the court any firearms or any air rifle, gun or pistol or any spring gun,
slingshot, bow or similar device which impels with force any shot, arrow or
pellet of any kind which shall be used, shot or discharged within the corporate
limits or on any municipal owned property of the town in violation of this
section. In the event that anything in this section shall conflict with any
penalties imposed under any federal law, said federal law shall control.
(1993 Code, § 84.01)  (Ord. passed - -; Ord passed 2-4-1980; Ord. passed 2-7-
2011)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(1993 Code, § 84.02)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  INJURING TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, damage, deface, trespass upon, break or
injure any property belonging to the town.
(1993 Code, § 84.03)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the  continuance of any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of such character,
intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual is prohibited. 
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control or if
in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance, however, on application to the Mayor, 
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce programs in
music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues; or
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street.
(1993 Code, § 84.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  PUBLIC DRINKING.
   No person shall consume, serve or drink wine, beer, whiskey or alcoholic
beverages of any kind on or in the public streets, alleys, parks, sidewalks,
school grounds, railroad rights-of-way or public buildings of any description
within the town.
(1993 Code, § 84.05)  (Ord. passed 12-6-1976)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  BLOCKING DRAINS OR DITCHES.
   No person shall block any drains or ditches in the town limits.
(1993 Code, § 84.07)  (Ord. passed 6-6-1955)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS; FORBIDDEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate or ride any bicycle or skateboard upon a sidewalk
within the town.
(1993 Code, § 84.08)  Penalty see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violated any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $250 or imprisoned not more
than 30 days.
(1993 Code, § 84.09)  (Ord. passed 2-7-2011)
CHAPTER 131:  DRUG OFFENSES
Section
Drug Paraphernalia
   
131.01   Definition
   
131.02   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
131.03   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
131.04   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor
   
131.05   Advertising of drug paraphernalia
   
131.06   Civil seizure and forfeiture
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 131.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,  producing,
processing, preparing, testing,  analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body a controlled substance, the possession of which would
constitute a violation of the laws of the state. It includes, but is not
limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating,  cultivating,  growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding,  converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants such as quinine, hydrochloride
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and snifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed,
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended 
for use or designed  for use in parenterally  injecting controlled substances
into the human body;
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips: meaning object  to hold burning materials, such
as a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; or
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, the
following factors, in addition to all other logically relevant facts, the court
or other authority should consider:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control
of the object under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this subchapter;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or
of anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of the laws of the
state relating to controlled substances; the innocence of an owner or of anyone
in control of the object, as to a direct violation of this subchapter, shall
not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use or designed for use
as drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instruction oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
objects to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (l)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (m)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(1993 Code, § 85.01)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 131.02  POSSESSION OF DRUG  PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly use, or possess with intent to
use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance, the possession of which would be a
violation of the laws of the state. Each separate and distinct item of drug
paraphernalia unlawfully delivered or possessed with intent to deliver shall
constitute a separate violation.
(1993 Code, § 85.02)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03  MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver, drug
paraphernalia, knowing that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body, a controlled substance, the possession
of which would be a violation of the laws of the state. Each separate and
distinct item of drug paraphernalia unlawfully possessed shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1993 Code, § 85.03)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04  DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO A MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute an additional violation for any person
18 years of age or over, to knowingly deliver drug paraphernalia to a person
under 18 years of age who is at least three years his or her junior.
(1993 Code, § 85.04)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05  ADVERTISING OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill
or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or
in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia.
(1993 Code, § 85.05)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06  CIVIL SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE.
   Any drug paraphernalia (as defined in §
131.01) used in violation of §§
131.01 through
131.05 shall be seized and forfeited pursuant to G.S. § 90-112(d) through (f).
(1993 Code, § 85.06)  (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ABANDONED AND/OR UNSAFE STRUCTURES
      
152.   INSULATION CONTRACTORS
      
153.   ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   PUBLIC SIGNS
      
156.   PIKEVILLE HISTORIC DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Residential Building Code adopted
   
150.07   Amendments to codes
   
150.08   Compliance with codes
   
150.09   Copies to be filed with the Clerk
Inspection Department
   
150.20   Organization
   
150.21   Duties of Department and inspectors
   
150.22   Conflicts of interest
   
150.23   Reports and records
   
150.24   Inspection procedure
   
150.25   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.26   Powers of inspection officials
Enforcement
   
150.40   Permits required
   
150.41   Application
   
150.42   Plans and specifications
   
150.43   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.44   Issuance of permit
   
150.45   Revocation of permit
   
150.46   Time limitations; validity of permits
   
150.47   Changes in work
   
150.48   Permit fees
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned and/or Unsafe Structures, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to such building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration,  repair, use and maintenance
of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration,  repair, use and maintenance
of mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1993 Code, § 90.01)
§ 150.02  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North  Carolina  State  Building  Code, as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.02)
§ 150.03  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code as adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.03)
§ 150.04  HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code as adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.04)
§ 150.05  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted
by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.05)
§ 150.06  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.06)
§ 150.07  AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Clerk or Building Inspector as provided in §
150.09.
(1993 Code, § 90.07)
§ 150.08  COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered,  extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, Volume
I or the North Carolina Uniform Residential State Building Code, whichever is
applicable or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures  installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1993 Code, § 90.08)
§ 150.09  COPIES TO BE FILED WITH THE CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk or
Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and
the amendments.
(1993 Code, § 90.09)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.20  ORGANIZATION.
   The Inspection Department shall consist of the appropriate inspection
official of the county.
(1993 Code, § 90.15)
§ 150.21  DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
(1993 Code, § 90.16)
§ 150.22  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the  furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building  or any part thereof or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the town.
(1993 Code, § 90.17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.23  REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Department shall keep complete, permanent and accurate
records in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued,
inspections and reinspections made and all other work and activities of the
Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board and to
other agencies, as required.
(1993 Code, § 90.18)
§ 150.24  INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)  Inspections. The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with the
appropriate codes. When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector,
materials and assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or
fabrication or inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection
organizations, provided, no approval shall be based on reports of such
organizations unless the same are in writing and certified by a responsible
officer of the organization.  All holders of permits or their agents shall
notify the Inspection Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the
following stages of construction, so that approval may be given before work is
continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place and before concrete is
placed.  Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed;
      (2)   Framing inspection.  To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing -in of plumbing, electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member;
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied; and
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung, fixtures set and is ready for occupancy but before the building
is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection. Requests for inspections may be made to the
office of the Inspection  Department or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after a
request is made therefor, provided the work is ready for inspection at the time
the request is made. Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the
inspector. No work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed
condition ready for inspection. All work which has been concealed before the
inspection and approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and
placed in condition for proper inspection.  Approval or rejection of the work
shall be furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted
on the building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent.  Failure to
call for inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of
construction shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines. Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley
or other public place, adjacent to the property on which the building or
structure is to be erected before proceeding with construction of the building
or structure. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the
building does not encroach on the street or alley or other public place.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof, until the Inspection Department has  issued a certificate of
occupancy. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building. Application for a certificate of
occupancy may be made by the owner or his or her agent after all final
inspections have been made for new buildings or, in the case of existing
buildings, after supplying the information and data necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter, the appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning
ordinance for the occupancy intended. The Inspection Department shall issue a
certificate of occupancy when, after examination and inspection, it is found
that the building in all respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter,
the regulatory codes and the zoning ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(1993 Code, § 90.19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.25  OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(1993 Code, § 90.20)
§ 150.26  POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are authorized,  empowered and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry.  With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at  reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
town ordinance or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted or in violation of the terms of the permit issued therefor or in such a
manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector may order the
work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to the owner of
the property or to his or her agent or to the person doing the work and shall
state the reasons there for and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed.
(1993 Code, § 90.21)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.40  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction,  alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any
building, or other structure or any part thereof, without a written permit
therefor from the Building  Inspector, provided, however, that no building
permit shall be required for work, the total cost of which does not exceed $100
and which does not involve any change of the structural parts or the stairways,
elevators, fire escapes or other means of egress of the building or the
structure in question. County Board of Health approval of a septic tank is
required where the sewage system cannot be connected to the town sewer system.
In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a good and
sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner, or by his
or her contractor, at the time of application for a permit to insure complete
removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris. Failure on the part of
the property owner or his or her contractor to completely demolish, remove and
clear the premises, after 30 days’ notice by the Building Inspector, shall be
cause for forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the Plumbing Inspector, however, no permit shall
be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of a trap to an
installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not disrupt the
original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating
or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the Heating-Air
Conditioning Inspector, however, no permit shall be required for minor
repairs,  minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air furnaces or
cooling systems.
   (D)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension,  alteration or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from
the Electrical Inspector, however, no permit shall be required for minor repair
work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of portable devices to
suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed; provided, 
further,  no permit shall be required for the installation, alteration or
repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances and equipment installed by
or for an electrical public utility corporation for the use of the corporation
in  the generation, transmission, distribution or metering  of electrical
energy.
(1993 Code, § 90.30)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.41  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative and, in
addition to such other information as may be required by the appropriate
inspector to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for
should be issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for such contractors, if a certificate is required for the work involved
in the permit for which application is made.
(1993 Code, § 90.31)
§ 150.42  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for a
permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in excess
of $45,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work until all authorized operations have
been completed and approved by the appropriate inspector.
(1993 Code, § 90.32)
§ 150.43  LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $45,000, unless the plans bear the state seal of a registered
architect or a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provisions of the general statutes or of any ordinance
require that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no
permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by the
licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required by this chapter,
no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications have
been provided.
(1993 Code, § 90.33)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.44  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit on payment of the proper fee as hereafter provided.
(1993 Code, § 90.34)
§ 150.45  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements  or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(1993 Code, § 90.35)
§ 150.46  TIME LIMITATIONS; VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has
been secured.
(1993 Code, § 90.36)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.47  CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(1993 Code, § 90.37)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.48  PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based on the total estimated cost of the proposed
work, including all subcontracts, if any, but in no case shall the total
estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in the
town as determined by the appropriate inspector. Permit fees shall be as
established by the Board and filed in the office of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)  (1993 Code, § 90.38)
CHAPTER 151:  ABANDONED AND/OR UNSAFE STRUCTURES
Section
Abandoned Structures
   
151.01   Finding of fact; intent
   
151.02   Duties and powers of the Town Administrator
   
151.03   Standards for enforcement
   
151.04   Preliminary investigation; issuance of complaint; hearing
   
151.05   Determination; issuance of order after hearing
   
151.06   Failure to comply with order
   
151.07   Petition to Superior Court by owner
   
151.08   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.09   In rem action by Town Administrator; placarding
   
151.10   Lien on premises
   
151.11   Alternative remedies
   
151.12   Inspection Department
Unsafe Structures
   
151.25   Enforcement
   
151.26   Unsafe structures enumerated
   
151.27   Failure of owner to correct; issuance of vacation, placarding of
structure
   
151.28   Order to take corrective action
   
151.29   Emergency enforcement
   
151.30   Action by town upon failure of owner
   
151.31   Collection of costs
   
151.32   Failure to comply with order
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Ch. 150
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 151.01  FINDING OF FACT; INTENT
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, as provided in G.S. § 160A-360, structures which
the County Building Inspector and/or the Town Administrator and/or their agents
find to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
town due to the attraction of insects and/or snakes and/or rodents or
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or conditions creating frequent use by vagrants as living quarters
in the absence of sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority
granted by G.S. §§ 160A-193 and 160A-441, it is the intent of this chapter to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of any such abandoned structures
in accordance with the same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law
for the repair, closing or demolition of structures.
(1993 Code, § 90.50)  (Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.02  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Administrator is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Town Administrator
to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction and determine which structures are in violation
of this chapter;
      (2)   Take such action pursuant to the chapter as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this subchapter
or assigned to him or her by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The County Building Inspector and/or the Town Administrator their
agents are authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary to carry out
the intent and the provisions of this subchapter, including the following
powers in addition to others granted in this subchapter:
      (1)   To investigate the conditions of buildings within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which structures are
abandoned and in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
      (4)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.03  STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every structure within the town’s jurisdiction shall be deemed in
violation of this subchapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to
the health, safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects and/or rodents and/or snakes;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; and
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not a structure
is in violation of this subchapter, the County Building Inspector, and/or the
Town Administrator or their agents may, by way of illustration and not
limitation, consider the presence or absence of the following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceiling or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and/or snakes and/or insects or become
breeding places for rodents and/or snakes and/or insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and/or snakes and/or insects or become breeding places
for rodents and/or snakes and/or insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.04  PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector and/or the Town Administrator or their
agents find any building or structure or portion thereof to be hazardous to the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town as defined in §
151.03 or if a petition is filed with the office of the Town Administrator by
at least five residents of the town charging that any structure exists in
violation of this subchapter or whenever it appears to the County Building
Inspector and/or the Town Administrator or their agents, upon inspection, that
any structure exists in violation hereof, he or she shall, if his or her
preliminary investigation disclosed a basis for such charges, issue and cause
to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such structure a
complaint.
   (B)   Such complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Town Board of Commissioners at the Town Hall or
designated area, no more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The
owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an answer to the
complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the place
and time fixed in the complaint.
   (C)   Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to such structure. Any person desiring to
do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being
heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall be not
controlling in hearings before the Town Administrator and the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.05  DETERMINATION; ISSUANCE OF ORDER AFTER HEARING.
   After such notice and hearing, as provided in §
151.04, the Town Administrator shall state, in writing, his or her
determination whether such structure violates this subchapter. If the Town
Administrator determines that the structure is in violation of this subchapter,
he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support such
determination. He or she shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof an order to repair, alter and improve such structure or remove or
demolish the same within a specified period of time not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.06  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any unsafe structure, as defined
in §
150.03, shall fail to comply with an order of the Town Administrator to repair,
alter or improve, vacate and close the same within the time specified therein,
the office of the Town Administrator shall call an emergency meeting with the
Board of Commissioners having a resolution directing the Town Attorney to
petition the Superior Court for an order directing such owner to comply with
the order of the Town Administrator as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
   (B)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of an unsafe structure, as
defined in §
151.03, to comply with an order of the Town Administrator within the time
specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not or has
not been granted as provided in division (A) above, the Town Administrator
shall submit to the Board of Commissioners an ordinance ordering the Town
Administrator to cause such structure to be repaired, altered, improved
vacated, closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of
the Town Administrator, provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.07  PETITION TO SUPERIOR COURT BY OWNER.
   Any person aggrieved by an ordinance issued from a decision rendered by the
Board of Commissioners shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Town Administrator, pending a final disposition of the cause,
as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.08  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the County Building Inspector and/or the Town
Administrator or their agents pursuant to this subchapter, shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail from the Town
Administrator’s office. If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and
cannot be ascertained by the Town Administrator in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the Town Administrator shall make an affidavit to that effect and
the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may be made by
publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required under §§
151.04 through
151.07. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.09  IN REM ACTION BY TOWN ADMINISTRATOR; PLACARDING.
   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of the
County Building Inspector and/or the Town Administrator or their agents, issued
pursuant to this subchapter, and upon adoption by the Board of Commissioners of
an ordinance authorizing and directing him or her to do so as provided by G.S.
§ 160A-443(5), the Town Administrator shall cause to be posted on the main
entrance of such structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the
structure. The Town Administrator shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
such building a note as follows: “USE OR OCCUPANCY OF THIS BUILDING HAS BEEN
PROHIBITED BY THE TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.” Use or occupation of a building so
posted shall constitute a misdemeanor, G.S. § 160A-175(b). Such notices shall
remain posted until the required repairs are made or demolition is completed.
It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agents or servants to remove
such notice without written permission of the Town Administrator or for any
person to enter the building except for the purpose of making the required
repairs or of demolishing it. Removal of such notice shall constitute a
violation of the provisions of G.S. § 160A-427, which is a misdemeanor
punishable at the discretion of the Court and shall be indexed in the name of
the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10  LEIN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Town Administrator pursuant to this
section shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred.  Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by Article 10 (Special Assessments), G.S. Ch.
160A or under the provisions of G.S. § 160A-193, wherein the costs, if not
paid, shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the trouble arose and
shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(1993 Code, § 90.59)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
§ 151.11  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to impair or limit in any way the
power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement
by summary action or otherwise or to enforce this subchapter by criminal
process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4. The enforcement of any remedy provided in
this subchapter shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1993 Code, § 90.60)
§ 151.12  INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.
   Except for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this subchapter, the
Inspection Department of the town shall continue to consist of the appropriate
inspection official of the county.
(1993 Code, § 90.61)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
UNSAFE STRUCTURES
§ 151.25  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Inspection Department and the Building Inspector therein for the county
is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1993 Code, § 90.70)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
§ 151.26  UNSAFE STRUCTURES ENUMERATED.
   All buildings or structures which are unsafe, unsanitary or not provided
with adequate egress or which constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise
dangerous to human life or which, in relation to existing use, constitute a
hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence or abandonment are, severally in contemplation of this section,
unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are hereby declared illegal and
shall be abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance
with this subchapter.
(1993 Code, § 90.71)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
§ 151.27  FAILURE OF OWNER TO CORRECT; ISSUANCE OF VACATION, PLACARDING OF
STRUCTURE.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe, pursuant to this subchapter, shall fail to take prompt corrective
action, the Building Inspector shall give the owner written notice, by
certified or registered mail, to the last known address or by personal service,
that:
      (1)   The building or structure is in a condition that appears to
constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate.
   (B)   If necessary, such notice shall also require the building, structure
or portion thereof to be vacated and not reoccupied until the specified repairs
and improvements are completed, inspected and approved by the Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector shall cause to be posted at each entrance to
such building a notice as follows:  “THIS BUILDING IS UNSAFE AND ITS USE OR
OCCUPANCY HAS BEEN PROHIBITED BY THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.” Such notice shall
remain posted until the required repairs are made or demolition is completed. 
It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agents or servants to remove
such notice without written permission of the Building Inspector or for any
person to enter the building except for the purpose of making the required
repairs or of demolishing same.
   (C)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if
a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in
question at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once
not later than one week prior to the hearing.
(1993 Code, § 90.72)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.28  ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in §
151.27, the Building Inspector finds that the building or structure is in a
condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to
life, health or other property, he or she shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within such period,
not less than 60 days, as the Building Inspector may prescribe.  Where the
Building Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
(1993 Code, § 90.73)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
§ 151.29  EMERGENCY ENFORCEMENT.
   The decision of the Building Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall be
final in cases of emergency, which, in his or her opinion, involve imminent
danger to human life or health. He or she shall promptly cause such building,
structure or portion thereof to be made safe or abated. For this purpose, he or
she may at once enter such structure or land on which it stands or abutting
land or structure, with such assistance and at such cost as he or she may deem
necessary. He or she may vacate adjacent structures and protect the public by
appropriate fence or such other means as may be necessary and for this purpose,
may close a public or private way.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.30  ACTION BY TOWN UPON FAILURE OF OWNER.
   In case the owner, agent or person in control cannot be found within the
stated time limits or if such owner, agent or person in control shall fail,
neglect or refuse to comply with the notice to repair, rehabilitate or to
demolish and remove a building or structure or portion thereof pursuant to this
subchapter, the Building Inspector, after having ascertained the cost, shall
cause such building or structure or portion thereof to be demolished, secured
or required to remain vacant.
(1993 Code, § 90.76)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)
§ 151.31  COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   The expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default. If
the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the land or premises where the
nuisance occurred. A lien established pursuant to this subsection shall have
the same priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The expense of the action is also a lien on any other real property
owned by the person in default within the town limits or within one mile of the
town limits, except for the person’s primary residence. A lien established
pursuant to this division (B) is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment. This division (B) shall not apply if the person
in default can show that the nuisance was created solely by the actions of
another G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
§ 151.32  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a building or structure to fail to comply
with an order issued pursuant to §
151.28 from which no appeal has been taken or fail to comply with an order of
the Board of Commissioners following an appeal.
(1993 Code, § 90.78)  (Ord. passed 11-13-1990)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   If the violation continues after the deadline to correct a violation
established after the violation hearing by the order requiring removal or
correction of a violation and no appeal or arrangement has been filed with the
office of the Town Administrator, then a citation with a fine in an initial
amount of $100 shall be authorized to be issued against the violator.
Thereafter, each day the violation continues shall be deemed an additional
offense and additional citations with increasing fines up to $100 may be issued
each day the violation continues. A hearing is not required for issuance of
subsequent citations with fines after the issuance of a warning citation. Any
unpaid citations and delinquency charges shall be cumulative and shall be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as well as any attorney fees
incurred by the town incident thereto.
(Ord. passed 6-29-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 152:  INSULATION CONTRACTORS
Section
   
152.01   Authority
   
152.02   Required license
   
152.03   Applications
   
152.04   Procedure for issuance
   
152.05   Termination and renewal of license
   
152.06   Suspension; revocation
   
152.07   Change of location
   
152.08   Required permit; fee; exceptions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-194.
(1993 Code, § 90.90)
§ 152.02  REQUIRED LICENSE.
   No person, firm or corporation may for a consideration install, alter or
restore within the town any insulation or other materials or energy utilization
equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code requirements 
for insulation and energy utilization standards who is not either licensed as a
contractor to do the proposed work under G.S. Ch. 87, working under the
supervision of a registered architect or professional engineer, an owner
working on his or her own building or licensed under this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 90.91)
§ 152.03  APPLICATIONS.
   Every person desiring a license under this chapter shall submit an
application for the license to the Building Inspector conforming to the
following requirements.
   (A)   Form of application.  Each application shall be a written statement on
forms provided by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Contents of application.  Each application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and home address of the  applicant, if an individual or home
office address, if a corporation or partnership;
      (2)   Names and home addresses of the  partners, if a partnership;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporation;
      (4)   Place where the proposed business is to be located;
      (5)   Complete record of all convictions of felonies or acts involving
dishonesty, fraud or deceit by the applicant or any employee, partner, officer
or director of the applicant, whether in this or any other state or
jurisdiction;
      (6)   Complete record of all licenses held by the applicant or any
employee, partner, officer or  director of the applicant authorizing activities
of the  type authorized herein or other activities involving construction,
alteration or modification of buildings and structures; and
      (7)   Information as to the circumstances in which any local, state or
federal government or agency has refused, suspended or revoked a license of the
type described in division (B)(6) above to the applicant or any employee,
partner, officer or director of the applicant.
   (C)   Fees.  Each application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of
$10 for the license, such amount to be for the calendar year and prorated by
quarters to the end of the year.
   (D)   False statements.  False statements on any application for a license
shall be grounds for immediate revocation or denial of the license.
(1993 Code, § 90.92)
§ 152.04  PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review by town officers.  Each application received by the Building 
Inspector  shall  be  promptly  forwarded  to  the  Chief Administrative
Officer for review.  The Chief Administrative Officer shall promptly make any
comments and recommendations pertaining to the application and forward them to
the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Licensing agency.  The application and any comments and
recommendations relating thereto shall be considered by the Building Inspector,
which shall then issue or deny the license pursuant to the following standards.
   (C)   Standards.  The Building Inspector shall issue the license unless he
or she shall find that the applicant or any employee, partner, officer or
director of the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the last three years of a felony or an
act involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, whether in this or any other state
or jurisdiction;
      (2)   Has been refused a license to do the type of work authorized herein
or has such a license suspended or revoked by any local, state or federal
government or agency and such government or agency has not subsequently granted
or restored such license; or
      (3)   Has knowingly made a false statement in the application.
(1993 Code, § 90.93)
§ 152.05  TERMINATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on the last day of the
calendar year for which issued.  Renewal of the licenses shall be pursuant to
the same procedures and requirements set forth for initial issuance.
(1993 Code, § 90.94)
§ 152.06  SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may suspend or revoke any license issued
hereunder at any time on a showing that the applicant or any employee, partner,
officer or director of the applicant has knowingly made a false statement in
the application for a license or violated the State Building Code requirements
as to insulation of energy utilization equipment or materials, whether in this
or any other jurisdiction or been convicted of an act involving dishonesty,
fraud or deceit with respect to any contract entered into for work requiring
this license.
   (B)   Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked may appeal the
suspension or revocation to the Board.  After reasonable notice to the
licensee, the Board shall afford the licensee an opportunity to show why its
license should not be suspended or revoked.
(1993 Code, § 90.95)
§ 152.07  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business may be changed, provided ten days’
notice thereof is given to the town and operation at the new location does not
violate any applicable state or local law ordinance or regulation.
(1993 Code, § 90.96)
§ 152.08  REQUIRED PERMIT; FEE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation may for a consideration install,
alter,  or  restore  any  insulation  or  other materials  or  energy
utilization equipment designed or intended to meet the State Building Code
requirements for insulation and energy utilization without first securing a
special insulation and energy utilization permit from the Building Inspector
for each item of work, which permit shall evidence compliance with the
insulation and energy utilization standards of the State Building Code.
   (B)   There shall be a fee charged for each permit issued in accordance with
the general building permit fee schedule established by the town.
   (C)   The following shall not be required to obtain the permit required by
division (A) above:
      (1)   An owner working upon his or her own building;
      (2)   An  installer  working  under  the  supervision  of  a registered
architect or professional engineer when the work is being performed under a
general building permit; or
      (3)   A contractor licensed to do the proposed work under G.S. Ch. 87,
when the work is being performed under a general building permit.
(1993 Code, § 90.97)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any firm, person or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter 
shall  be  subject  to  all  the  applicable  punishment, penalties and
equitable relief provided for by G.S.§ 160A-175.
(1993 Code, § 90.98)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING, SUBDIVISIONS AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Minimum requirements
Zone Regulations
   
153.015   Zones and boundaries
   
153.016   R8 Residential Zone
   
153.017   R6 Residential Zone
   
153.018   R5 Residential Zone
   
153.019   R4 Residential Zone
   
153.020   R20 Residential Zone
   
153.021   Community shopping
   
153.022   Business Zone
   
153.023   Industrial Zone
General Requirements
   
153.035   Height and area exceptions and supplements
   
153.036   Nonconforming uses
   
153.037   Stream buffer areas required
   
153.038   Political signs
   
153.039   Internet cafés
Subdivisions
   
153.050   Plat to be approved by Board of Commissioners
   
153.051   Approval procedure
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.065   Application for permit to construct or expand park
   
153.066   Information to be included in park plan
   
153.067   Planning Board review
   
153.068   Access
   
153.069   Water and sewer
   
153.070   Review of plan by electrical inspector
   
153.071   Deficiencies to be corrected before proceeding with development
   
153.072   Construction permit
   
153.073   Operating license
   
153.074   Development in stages
   
153.075   Identification signs
   
153.076   Maintenance of improvements
   
153.077   Utility and sanitary requirements
   
153.078   Street lights
   
153.079   Inspections
   
153.080   Mobile home moving permits
Administration
   
153.095   Zoning permits
   
153.096   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
153.097   Board of Adjustment
   
153.098   Planning Board
   
153.099   Changes and amendments
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  PURPOSE.
   In order to lessen congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire,
panic and other dangers; to promote health and the general welfare; to provide
adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue
concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate provisions of
transportation, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; to
conserve the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land
throughout the corporate area, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan,
there is hereby adopted and established an official zoning plan of the town. 
This zoning plan is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in the town by its
charter and G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19.
(1993 Code, § 91.001)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.002  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All words used in the present tense shall include the future tense;
all words in the singular number shall include the plural number; and all words
in the plural number shall include the singular number unless the natural
construction of the wording  indicates otherwise; the words “used for” shall
include the meaning “designed for”; the word “structure” shall include the word
“building”; the word “lot” shall include the words “plot” and “tract” and the
word “shall” is mandatory.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly  indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate use of building customarily incident to
and located upon the same lot occupied by the main use of building.
   ALLEY. A roadway which affords only a secondary means of access to abutting
property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT.  A room or suite of one or more rooms in a multiple dwelling
intended for use as a residence by a single family.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel, where meals are served for
compensation.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.  The vertical distance from the average sidewalk grade
or street grade or finished grade at the building line, whichever is the
highest, to the highest point of the building.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM.   A system of providing water to three or more
residences from a common source, which system has been approved in advance by
the County Health Department or the State Division of Health, Department of
Human Resources and which is operated after installation according to
regulations imposed or enforced by the Health Department.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A system of providing sewage treatment to three or
more residences, which system has been approved in advance by the County Health
Department or the Environmental Management Commission,  and which is operated
after installation according to regulations imposed or enforced by the County
Health Department.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A store selling a limited variety of food, pharmaceutical
items and automobile related services; open extended hours for the convenience
of customers.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, 
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for living
or sleeping purposes and occupied exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for two or more families living independently of each other.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
   FILLING STATION.  See SERVICE STATION.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOODPRONE AREA.  Any land susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of FLOOD).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FRONTAGE.  All the property abutting on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets, measured along the street line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  A building or space used as an accessory to or a part of
the main building permitted in any residence district and providing for the
storage of motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation or service for
profit is in any way conducted.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those described as a
private or storage garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles or
where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for
remuneration or hire or sale.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, other than a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
   GUEST HOUSE (TOURIST HOME). Any dwelling occupied by owner or operator in
which rooms are rented for guests and for lodging of transients and travelers
for compensation.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any profession or occupation carried on by a member of a
family or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises,
provided that no merchandise or commodity is sold on the premises and that no
mechanical equipment is installed or used except such that is normally used for
domestic or professional purposes and provided further that not over 25% of the
total floor area of any structure is used for home occupational or professional
purposes.
   HOTEL (MOTEL). A building or other structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised as or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
accommodations are supplied for pay to transient or permanent guests or
tenants, where rooms are furnished for the accommodation of such guests; and
having or not having one or more dining rooms, restaurants or cafes where meals
or lunches are served to such transient or permanent guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms, restaurants or cafes, if existing, being
conducted in the same building or buildings in connection therewith.
   INTERNET CAFÉ. An “internet café,”  “cybercafe,” “electronic gaming
operation” or “sweepstakes center” or by what other terminology such
establishment might be known, is for a profit business enterprise, whether as a
principal or an accessory use, where three or more electronic machines can be
utilized, including but not limited to, computers and gaming terminals and
where cash, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise
distributed, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds. This term includes, but is
not limited to those establishments where one can use a computer with internet
access, usually for a fee on a per hour or per minute basis; or unmetered
access with a pass for a day, month and the like. The establishment may serve
as a regular café, as well, with food and drinks being served. This does not
include any lottery approved by the state or any nonprofit operation that is
otherwise lawful under state law for example, church or civic organization
fundraisers
   LIVESTOCK OR POULTRY FACILITY.  Any building or other facility used for
feeding, breeding, incubating, holding or raising livestock or poultry of any
kind or description.  If the facility has a soil floor, it shall be completely
enclosed with walls and roof.  If it is not completely enclosed with walls and
roof, it shall have a permanent, non-soil floor of either concrete or metal
construction.
   LOT.  A parcel of land in single ownership occupied or intended for
occupancy by a building together with its accessory buildings including the
open space required under this chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, the
word LOT shall be taken to mean any number of contiguous lots or portions
thereof upon which one or more main structures for a single use are to be
erected.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been recorded in
the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   LOT, DEPTH.  The depth of a lot, for the purpose of this chapter, is the
distance measured in the mean direction of the side lines of the lot from the
midpoint fo the front lot line to the midpoint of the opposite main rear line
of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES.  The lines bounding a lot.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, house car, camp car, mobile home or any other
portable or movable vehicle on wheels, skids, rollers or blocks including any
such vehicle which has been mounted on a foundation or other stationary
supports, either self-propelled or propelled by any other means, which is used
or designed to be used for residential living, sleeping, commercial or utility
purposes, but not including those vehicles primarily designed for the
transportation of goods.  MOBILE HOME also means a structure, transportable in
one or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities.  It does not include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   MOBILE HOME PARK OR COURT.  Land used or intended to be used, leased or
rented for occupancy by two or more trailers or mobile homes which are mounted
on wheels anchored in place by a foundation or other stationary supports, to be
used for living or commercial quarters of any kind, together with automobile
parking space and incidental utility structures and facilities required and
provided in connection therewith. This definition shall not include trailer or
mobile home sales lots on which unoccupied trailers or mobile homes are parked
for purposes of inspection and sale.
   MODULAR HOME.  A home of modular or manufactured construction with a minimum
of 1,250 square feet of heated space which has an A-roof covered with asphalt
or fiberglass shingles from which the tongue, wheels and axles, if any, have
been permanently removed and which has been set on a permanent, mortared
foundation, with brick underpinning.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A building or land occupied by a use that does not
conform with the regulations of the use zone in which it is situated.
   PARKING LOT.  An area or plot of land used for the storage or parking of
vehicles.
   PRIVATE STORAGE FACILITY.  Any building or premises, other than a private or
public garage, used for the parking or storage of vehicles or equipment owned
by the business occupying the building or premises. Vehicles or equipment owned
by a third party may not be parked or stored on the premises for more than 24
consecutive hours.
   REPAIR SHOP. Any building or enclosed space used for the repair of vehicles
or equipment owned by the business occupying said building or space.  Vehicles
or equipment owned by a third party may not be repaired on the premises. 
Except for emergency repairs, repairs must be performed inside the enclosed
building.
   RIVERINE.   Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SERVICE STATION.  A building or lot where gasoline, oil, greases and
accessories are supplied and dispensed to the motor vehicles trade, also where
battery, tire and other similar services are rendered.
   STABLE, PRIVATE.  A stable with a capacity of not more than one horse for
each 3,500 square feet of lot area whereon such stable is located and where
such horses are owned by the owners or occupants of the premises and are not
kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   STABLE, PUBLIC.  A stable other than a private stable.
   STORY.  The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it. In computing,
the height of building, the height of basement or cellar, if below grade, shall
not be included.
   STREAM BUFFER. An area of natural or planted perennial vegetation through
which stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not
become channelized and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and
filtering of pollutants. The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool
elevation of impounded structures and from the bank of each of streams and
rivers.
   STREET.  A thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard,
highway, road and any other thoroughfare except an alley.
   STREET LINE. The line between the street and abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the land or attachment to something having a permanent location on
the land.  STRUCTURE means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and
roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally
above ground, as well as a mobile home.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change,  except for repair or replacement, in
the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or
girders.
   SUBSTANTIAL  IMPROVEMENT.  Any  repair, reconstruction,  or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored,  before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing 
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure  safe living conditions or any alteration of a structure
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of
Historic Places.
   TOURIST HOME.  See GUEST HOUSE.
   USED CAR JUNK YARD.  A lot or group of contiguous lots used for the
dismantling or wrecking of used automobiles or the storage, sale or dumping of
dismantled or wrecked cars or their parts.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery or as
otherwise provided herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard across the full width of the lot, extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot, excluding steps and
unenclosed porches, but including covered porches.
   YARD, SIDE.  An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
between the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the
front building line to the rear yard or to the rear line of the lot, where no
rear yard is required.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
(1993 Code, § 91.002)  (Res. passed 4-30-2001; Ord. passed 2-6-2006; Ord.
passed 12-3-2012)
§ 153.003  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any  easements,  covenants, or 
other  agreements  between  parties; provided,  however,  that  where  this 
chapter  imposes  a  greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises
or upon the height of buildings,  or requires larger open spaces than are
imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements,
covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(1993 Code, § 91.003)
ZONE REGULATIONS
§ 153.015  ZONES AND BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   In order to regulate and limit the height and size of buildings; to
regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; to regulate and
determine the areas of open spaces surrounding buildings; to classify, regulate
and restrict the location of trades and industries; and the location of
buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential and other
uses of the town, the town is hereby divided into zones, of which there shall
be nine, known as:
      (1)   R8 Residential Zone;
      (2)   R6 Residential Zone;
      (3)   R5 Residential Zone;
      (4)   R4 Residential Zone;
      (5)   RA20 Residential-Agricultural Zone;
      (6)   Community Shopping Zone;
      (7)   Business Zone;
      (8)   Industrial Zone; and
      (9)   Flood Zone A.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zones are shown upon the map or maps
accompanying this chapter and made a part hereof.  The zoning map or maps and
all the notations, references and all amendments thereto and other information
shown thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter the same as if such
information set forth on the map or maps were all fully described and set out
herein.  The zoning map or maps properly attested are on file in the office of
the Town Clerk and are available for inspection by the public.  In the
creation, by this chapter, of the respective zones, the Board of Commissioners
has given due and careful consideration to the peculiar suitability of each and
every such zone for the particular regulations applied thereto and the
necessary, proper and comprehensive groupings and arrangements of the various
uses and densities of population in accordance with a well considered plan for
the development of the town.
   (C)   The boundaries of such zones as are shown upon the map adopted by this
chapter are hereby adopted and the provisions of this chapter governing the use
of land and buildings, the height of buildings, building site areas, the sizes
of yards about buildings and other matters as hereinafter set forth, are hereby
established and declared to be in effect upon all land included within the
boundaries of each and every zone shown upon said map.
      (1)   All zones shall be mutually exclusive except for the Flood Zone.
The Flood Zone is that area subject to flooding which may occur in any of the
other eight zones and which is shown on the separate map properly attested on
file in the office of the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists as to boundaries of any zone shown on said
map, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   Where  such zone boundaries are  indicated as approximately
following street lines, alley lines and lot lines, such lines shall be
construed to be such boundaries.
         (b)   In unsubdivided property or where a zone boundary divides a lot,
the location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, 
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
         (c)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment
shall interpret the intent of the map as to location of such boundaries.
         (d)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall
apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such
vacation or abandonment.
   (D)   Except as hereinafter provided, no building shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
which does not comply with all the zone regulations established by this chapter
for the zone in which the building or land is located.
      (1)   The minimum yards and other open spaces including the intensity of
use provisions contained in this chapter for each and every building
hereinafter erected or structurally altered, shall not be encroached upon or
considered as yard or open space requirements or intensity of use requirements
for any other building.
      (2)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one main building and
the customary accessory buildings on the lot.
      (3)   Every lot to be built upon shall abut a public street or other
public way and no dwelling shall be built upon a lot which does not abut a
public street or other public way.
(1993 Code, § 91.015)
§ 153.016  R8 RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   In this zone, a building or land shall be used only for one or more of the
following purposes.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes and mobile home
parks;
      (2)   Public primary and secondary schools and private schools having the
same or similar curriculum as ordinarily given in the public schools;
      (3)   Hospitals, except animal hospitals, operated for the treatment of
chronic alcoholics, the insane, infectious diseases or narcotic patients;
      (4)   Churches and church bulletin board,  lighted or unlighted, not
exceeding four square feet in area;
      (5)   Municipally owned parks,  playgrounds and recreation centers;
parks, playgrounds and recreation centers owned and operated by nonprofit civic
organizations;
      (6)   Golf, swimming, tennis and other private clubs not open to the
general public and operated for the mutual recreation of members and not
operated as a business for profit. Provided, however, that any swimming or
tennis club is located on a parcel of land not less than one acre in size;
      (7)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily or necessarily incident to
any of the above specified uses, including a private garage or servants’
quarters, private swimming pool and noncommercial truck garden. An accessory
use shall be situated on the same lot or premises as the primary use to which
it is accessory; and
      (8)   Home occupation as defined in §
153.002.
   (B)   Building height limit. No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of front and total width of side yards required herein shall
be increased five feet for each ten feet or fraction thereof, of building
height in excess of 35 feet.
   (C)   Building site area required, residences. The minimum building site
area shall be one lot or parcel of land 8,000 square feet in area for each main
building. Such parcel of land shall have an average width of at least 75 feet. 
When a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the above required
minimum area and width and was of record at the time of passage of this
chapter, said lot may be occupied by one family; provided, however, that the
minimum side, front and rear yard requirements set out in this section are
conformed to.
   (D)   Front yard required.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 35 feet
measured from the front property line to the front line of the main building. 
Where lots comprising 25% or more of the frontage on the same street within the
block are already developed, an average front yard shall be computed for the
existing buildings. No building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
project beyond the average front yard so established, provided this regulation
shall not be so construed as to require a front yard depth of more than 35
feet. Provided, further, no front yard depth need exceed the average provided
for the two adjoining buildings, one on either side thereof, if such two
adjoining buildings  are less  than 200 feet apart. Provided, further, that
when the geographic grade or contour of the lot is such that compliance with
this section is impossible or will impose an undue hardship upon the property
owner, the Board of Adjustment will establish a front yard depth suitable and
practical for such lot.
      (2)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (E)   Side yard required. There shall be a side yard on each side of the
main building having a width of not less than ten feet and the total width of
such two side yards shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (F)   Corner lots. On corner lots, the side yard regulations shall apply to
the street side of the lot except in the case where the corner lot faces an
intersecting street.  In this case, there shall be a side yard on the street
side of the corner lot of not less than 50% of the front yard required on lots
in the rear of such corner lot and no accessory building on said corner lot
shall extend beyond the front yard line of the lots in the rear; provided,
further, that this regulation shall not be so interpreted as to reduce the
building width of a corner lot facing an intersecting street and as of record
at the time of the passage of this chapter to less than 28 feet, nor to
prohibit the erection of an accessory building where this regulation cannot
reasonably be complied with.
   (G)   Signs. A billboard, signboard or advertising sign shall in no case be
permitted as an accessory use.  The placing of a “for sale” or “for rent” sign
not exceeding four square feet in area shall, however, be permitted.  Signs not
exceeding one square foot in area shall be permitted in connection with a home
occupation as defined in §
153.002.
(1993 Code, § 91.016)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.017  R6 RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   In this zone, a building or land shall be used only for one or more of the
following purposes:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R8 Residential Zone;
      (2)   Modular homes;
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes and mobile home
parks;
      (4)   Guest houses and boarding houses;
      (5)   Nursing homes, convalescent homes and homes for the aged;
      (6)   Public and private cemeteries;
      (7)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above permitted uses; and
      (8)   Notwithstanding the prohibition above against the sale of
merchandise or commodities as a part of a home occupation, in the R6
Residential Zone, a greenhouse may be maintained for the purpose of growing and
selling plants, subject to the following restrictions.
         (a)   The square footage of the greenhouse shall not exceed 504 square
feet.
         (b)   Sales shall be limited to plants  grown and propagated in the
greenhouse and shall not be used for the purpose of selling plants grown or
propagated at other sites.
         (c)   Sales from the greenhouse shall not exceed the annual gross
amount of $5,000. The owner of the greenhouse shall file with the Town Clerk a
sworn affidavit on February is in each year setting forth the gross sales for
the previous calendar year.
         (d)   The greenhouse must be located on the lot where the owner’s
house is situated.
         (e)   The greenhouse shall be located on the lot in such a manner as
to not distract from the overall appearance of the neighborhood and shall be
maintained by the owners in neat and orderly fashion.
         (f)   Violation of any provision herein shall constitute grounds for
prohibition of further sales from the greenhouse as well as all other criminal
and civil penalties provided by the zoning ordinance. A false gross sales
affidavit shall also constitute grounds for prohibition of further sales as
well as other criminal and civil penalties as provided by law.
   (B)   Building height limit.  No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of front and total width of side yards required herein shall
be increased five feet for each story,  or fraction thereof, of building height
in excess of 35 feet.
   (C)   Building  site  area  required  for  one-  and  two-family
residences.  The minimum building site area shall be one lot or parcel of land
6,000 square feet in area for each main building. Such parcel of land shall
have an average width of at least 60 feet at the front building line.  When a
lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the above required minimum area
and width and was of record at the time of passage of this chapter, said lot
may be occupied by one family; provided, however, that the minimum side and
front yard requirements set out in this section are conformed to provided,
however, that duplexes or other multi-dwelling units shall, in addition to the
above area requirements, increase the minimum building site area as follows:
for each additional family unit in excess of the first family unit, 3,000
square feet per family, in addition to the 6,000 square feet required above.
   (D)   Front yard required.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 25 feet
measured from the front property line to the front line of the main building. 
Where lots comprising 25% or more of the frontage on the same street within the
block are already developed, an average front yard shall be computed for the
existing buildings. No buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall project beyond the average front yard so established, provided this
regulation shall not be so construed as to require a front yard depth of more
than 25 feet provided,  further, no front yard depth need exceed the average
provided for the two adjoining buildings, one on either side thereof, if such
two adjoining buildings are less than 200 feet apart. Provided, further, that
when the geographic grade or contour of a lot is such that compliance with this
section is impossible or will impose an undue hardship upon the property owner,
the Board of Adjustment will establish a front yard depth suitable and
practical for such lot.
      (2)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (E)   Side yard required.  There shall be a side yard on each side of the
main building having a width of not less than eight feet and the total width of
the side yards shall not be less than 16 feet.  No accessory building on a
corner lot shall extend beyond the front yard line of the lots in rear thereof;
provided,  further,  that this regulation shall not be so interpreted as to
reduce the building width of a corner lot facing an intersecting street and as
of record at the time of the passage of this chapter to less than 28 feet, nor
to prohibit the erection of an accessory building where this regulation cannot
be complied with.
   (F)   Signs. A billboard, signboard or advertising sign shall in no case be
permitted as an accessory use.  The placing of a “for sale” or “for rent” sign
not exceeding four square feet in area shall, however, be permitted. Signs not
exceeding one square foot in area shall be permitted in connection with a home
occupation as defined in §
153.003.
(1993 Code, § 91.017)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.018  R5 RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   In this zone, mobile home parks or courts shall be allowed pursuant to the
following regulations.
   (A)   Each mobile home space shall be at least 40 feet wide and contain at
least 5,000 square feet of ground area.
   (B)   Each mobile home shall be located at least 30 feet from any other
mobile home, ten feet from any other building within the mobile home park and
ten feet from all property lines.
   (C)   Each mobile home shall abut upon a paved street with a right-of-way of
at least 40 feet with a minimum width of 18 feet paved, which paved street
shall have direct access to a public street or road.
   (D)   One automobile space shall be provided adjacent to each mobile home
and one guest automobile parking space shall be provided in the mobile home
park for each two mobile home spaces.
   (E)   At least 200 square feet for each mobile home space in the park shall
be provided in one or more locations for recreation purposes.
   (F)   All mobile home spaces within any mobile home park or court shall be
under single ownership and no lots contained therein may be for sale to others.
(1993 Code, § 91.018)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.019  R4 RESIDENTIAL ZONE.
   In this zone, mobile home parks or courts shall be allowed pursuant to the
following regulations.
   (A)   If either a community water or community sewer system is provided by
the developer, then each mobile home space shall be at least 15,000 square feet
of ground area.
   (B)   If both a community water and a community sewer system are provided,
then each mobile home space shall be at least 10,000 square feet of ground
area.
   (C)   Each mobile home shall be located at least 35 feet from any other
mobile home, ten feet from any other building within the mobile home park and
ten feet from all property lines.
   (D)   Each mobile home shall abut upon a paved street with a right-of-way of
at least 40 feet with a minimum width of 18 feet paved, which paved street
shall have direct access to a public street or road.
   (E)   One automobile space shall be provided adjacent to each mobile home
and one guest automobile parking space shall be provided in the mobile home
park for each two mobile home spaces.
   (F)   At least 200 square feet for each mobile home space in the park shall
be provided in one or more locations for recreation purposes.
   (G)   If any mobile home park or court in this residential zone shall have
ten or more lots, it shall have an on-site manager.
   (H)   All mobile home spaces within any mobile home park or court shall be
under single ownership and no lots contained therein may be for sale to others.
(1993 Code, § 91.019)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.020  R20 RESIDENTIAL- AGRICULTURAL ZONE.
   The purpose of this zone shall be to maintain lots of sufficient size to
insure that residential development not having access to public water supplies
and dependent upon septic tank systems for sewage disposal will occur at
sufficiently low density to insure a healthful environment. The R20
Residential- Agricultural Zone is established as a Zone to promote a compatible
mixture of single-family residential and agricultural uses in areas outside
town  limits and where development is occurring. In this zone, a building or
land shall be used only for one or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R6 Residential Zone;
      (2)   Agriculture,  including the  sale  and processing of products
produced on the premises;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Forestry;
      (5)   Mobile home dwellings, provided that only one mobile home shall be
allowed per residential lot and in no case shall a mobile home be allowed to a
lot occupied by any other principal building;
      (6)   Parks and historic sites;
      (7)   Plant nurseries;
      (8)   Public safety or public utility facilities, including public sewage
disposal facilities; and
      (9)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above permitted uses.
   (B)   Building height limit.  No structure shall exceed 35 feet in height
unless the depth of front and total width of side yards required herein shall
be increased five feet for each story,  or fraction thereof, of building height
in excess of 35 feet.
   (C)   Building site area required for residences.
      (1)   The minimum building site area shall be one lot or parcel of land
20,000 square feet in area for each main building. Such parcel of land shall
have average width of at least 100 feet at the front building line.  When a lot
or parcel of land has an area of less than the above required minimum area and
width and was of record at the time of passage of this chapter, said lot may be
occupied by only one family;  provided, however, that the minimum side and
front yard requirements set out in this section are conformed to regardless of
pre-existing lot size.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings may be constructed, provided that the
overall site provides a minimum of 20,000 square feet per development, plus
6,000 additional square feet for each family unit in the complex.
   (D)   Front yard required.  There shall be a front yard having a depth of
not less than 40 feet measured from the front of the street or road right-of-
way to the front line of the main building.  Provided, that when the geographic
grade or contour of a lot is such that compliance with this section is
impossible or will impose an undue hardship upon the property owner,  the Board
of Adjustment will establish a front yard depth suitable and practical for such
lot. Where a lot fronts on two streets, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (E)   Side yard required.  There shall be a side yard on each side of the
main residential building having a width of not less than 20 feet.  No
accessory building shall be located nearer than ten feet to any interior lot
line and shall not be located less than 40 feet from the street or road right-
of-way of either street or road on corner lots.
   (F)   Residential development setbacks.
      (1)   All   residential subdivisions or individually sold residential
lots shall be located a minimum of 1,000 feet from any existing livestock or
poultry facility using lagoon sewage disposal facilities.  All residential
subdivisions or individually sold residential lots shall be located a minimum
of 500 feet from an existing livestock or poultry facility using waste disposal
systems other than lagoons. 
      (2)   This prohibition shall not apply to the construction of residential
dwellings as a part of or located on a farm tract, when said residential lots
are not to be separately deeded from the entire farm tract.  These setbacks
shall be measured from the point of the residential building nearest the
facility to the edge of the facility building or lagoon that is nearest to the
residential building.
   (G)   Livestock and poultry facility setbacks. Livestock or poultry
facilities using lagoon sewage disposal facilities shall be located a minimum
of 1,000 feet from any existing residential building located on property owned
by a person or legal entity other than the owner of the livestock or poultry
facility. Livestock and poultry facilities using waste disposal systems other
than lagoons shall be located a minimum of 500 feet from any existing
residential building located on property owned by a person or legal entity
other than the owner of the livestock or poultry facility. These setbacks shall
be measured from the point of the residential building nearest the facility to
the edge of the facility building or lagoon that is nearest to the residential
building.
   (H)   Prohibited uses and structures.
      (1)   The use of any property in this zone which would result in noise,
odor, dust or chemical residues which would create or establish a nuisance or
trespass. All livestock or poultry waste disposal systems of whatever type
shall be operated according to guidelines established by the Agricultural Waste
Management Committee, School of Agriculture and  Life Sciences, North Carolina
State University in cooperation with the Soil Conservation Service;
      (2)   The commercial processing of any livestock or poultry not grown on
the premises;
      (3)   The raising of livestock or poultry in open pens or ranges. All
livestock and poultry shall be grown in livestock or poultry facilities with
waste disposal systems set out in guidelines established by the Agricultural
Waste Management Committee (or its successor) of the School of Agriculture and
Life Sciences, North Carolina State University, in cooperation with the Soil
Conservation Service.  Exceptions to this general rule are as follows:
         (a)   Poultry or livestock grown for personal use or consumption by
residents of the tract in question;
         (b)   Livestock grazed on permanent pasture, not to exceed five head
per acre of permanent pasture. Said pasture shall not be more than 100 feet
from the property line; and
         (c)   Livestock temporarily grazed in corn or other grain fields, not
to exceed ten head per acre.  The temporarily fenced area shall be more than
100 feet from the property line and shall not be used for more than 60 days
during the months of September and January.
      (4)   All other structures and uses not specifically permitted in the
above list of permitted uses.
(1993 Code, § 91.020)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.021  COMMUNITY SHOPPING.
   Within the Community Shopping Zone, as indicated on the zoning map, no lot,
building or structure shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected which is intended or designed for any other than one or more of the
following specified purposes.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Agriculture, including the sale, storage and processing of
products;
      (2)   Auto parts and supplies, new;
      (3)   Bakeries;
      (4)   Banks and financial institutions, including loan and finance
companies;
      (5)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (6)   Churches;
      (7)   Clubs and lodges;
      (8)   Convenience stores;
      (9)   Drug stores;
      (10)   Dry cleaners, laundries and laundromats;
      (11)   Electric, radio and television repair shops;
      (12)   Floral and gift shops;
      (13)   Food stores and meat markets;
      (14)   Hardware, paint and floor covering stores;
      (15)   Health and medical facilities;
      (16)   Internet cafés;
      (17)   Motels;
      (18)   Offices, business, professional and public;
      (19)   Public safety and utility facilities;
      (20)   Restaurants;
      (21)   Sale and repair of new and used automobiles and other services
incident to the operation of an automobile dealership;
      (22)   Service stations; and
      (23)   Signs constructed and placed in accordance with the ordinances of
the town.
   (B)   Prohibited uses and structures.
      (1)   The use of any property in this zone as a used car junkyard;
      (2)   The use of any property in this zone for the sale or storage of
used motor vehicles or equipment parts; and
      (3)   All other structures and uses not specifically permitted in the
above list of permitted uses.
   (C)   Area and yard regulations.
      (1)   Buildings erected in the Community Shopping Zone for dwelling
purposes exclusively shall comply with the requirements of the R6 Residential
Zone.
      (2)   Where a building is erected for mixed use, namely for both dwelling
and shopping purposes, each story of such building used in any part for
dwelling purposes shall, if more than two rooms in depth, be provided with two
side yards, one on each side of the building, neither of which shall be less
than six feet in width.
      (3)   There are no minimum lot requirements in this zone.
      (4)   Where a Community Shopping Zone abuts a residential district, there
shall be a side or rear yard, as the case may be, of at least ten feet in
width.  This yard shall be planted with evergreen trees and shrubbery to act as
a buffer strip.  Maintenance shall be provided by the property owner at all
times.
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Required off-street parking space shall be provided on the same lot
as the use for which provided or within a distance of 300 feet from the lot
provided that such parking space land is owned by the same owner as the use
lot. Each application for zoning certificate shall include information as to
the location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space and the
means of ingress and egress. Each automobile parking space shall not be less
than 200 square feet exclusive of access drives and maneuvering space.
      (2)   For motels built within this zone, one space shall be provided for
each sleeping unit and one space for each employee.
      (3)   For all other uses permitted within this zone, one space shall be
provided for each 200 square feet of gross floor area of the structure.
      (4)   Every building or structure used for trade or business shall
provide space for the loading and unloading of vehicles. These spaces shall be
designed so that the vehicles loading and unloading shall not rest upon or
across any public street right-of-way. All off-street loading spaces shall be
at least 12 feet wide, 30 feet long and have an overhead clearance of 14 feet.
Adequate means of ingress and egress must also be provided. Retail and
wholesale establishments shall provide one off-street loading and unloading
space for the first 2,500 square feet of gross floor space and one additional
space for each additional 20,000 square feet of gross floor space.
(1993 Code, § 91.021)  (Ord. passed 2-6-2006; Ord. passed 12-3-2012)  Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.022  BUSINESS ZONE.
   Within the Business Zone, as indicated on the zoning map, no lot, building
or structure shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected which
is intended or designed for any other than one or more of the following
specified purposes.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R8 and R6 Residential Zones;
      (2)   Offices, restaurants, banks, theaters, retail stores and retail
stores conducting incidental and secondary wholesale departments;
      (3)   Public buildings or other public use and public utility uses;
      (4)   Signs constructed and placed in accordance with the ordinances of
the town;
      (5)   Newspaper or printing plants, radio and television stations;
      (6)   Dry-cleaning and pressing plants, laundries;
      (7)   Freezer lockers, cold storage plants, produce markets;
      (8)   Billiard or pool rooms, bowling alleys, dance halls and other forms
of public amusements;
      (9)   Wholesale and storage warehouses and building materials supply and
sales warehouses or yards necessarily incidental to a permitted use in this
zone;
      (10)   Automobile, truck, tractor and implement sales and service.
Automobile repair garages and parking lots;
      (11)   Taxicab, bus and motor freight terminals;
      (12)   Hotels, motels, tourist homes;
      (13)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily and necessarily incident
to the above specified uses; and
      (14)   In general, business not creating or likely to create either
smoke, odor, gas, dust, noise or vibration harmful to abutting property in this
zone.
   (B)   Area and yard regulations.
      (1)   Buildings erected in the Business Zone for dwelling purposes
exclusively shall comply with the requirements of the R6 Residential Zone.
      (2)   Where a building is erected for mixed use, namely, for both
dwelling and business purposes, each story of such building used in any part
for dwelling purposes shall, be more than two rooms in depth, be provided with
two side yards, one on each side of the building, neither of which shall be
less than six feet in width; provided, however, that this regulation shall not
apply to the street side of a corner lot.
      (3)   Where a lot abuts upon the side of a lot zoned residential, there
shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet in width.
(1993 Code, § 91.022)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.023  INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
   (A)   Industrial zone. In the Industrial Zone, any building or land may be
used for any purpose not in conflict with any ordinance within the town, except
that no mobile home shall be located in the Industrial Zone and used as a
residence, nor shall any building or occupancy permit be issued for any of the
following uses until and unless the location of such use shall have been
approved by the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   Acid manufacture;
      (2)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris manufacture;
      (3)   Distillation of bones;
      (4)   Used car junk yard;
      (5)   Explosives, manufacture or storage;
      (6)   Fat rendering;
      (7)   Garbage, offal, dead animal reduction or dumping;
      (8)   Gas manufacture;
      (9)   Glue manufacture;
      (10)   Stock yards or slaughter of animals;
      (11)   Tannery;
      (12)   Pulp manufacture; and
      (13)   Any other similar operation which may be declared objectionable by
the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Area and yard requirement.
      (1)   Buildings erected in the Industrial Zone for dwelling purposes
exclusively shall comply with the requirements of the R6 Residential Zone.
      (2)   Where a building is erected for mixed use, namely, for both
dwelling and business purposes, each story of such building used in any part
for dwelling purposes shall, be more than two rooms in depth, be provided with
two side yard, one on each side of the building, neither of which shall be less
than six feet in width; provided, however, that this regulations shall not
apply to the street side of a corner lot.
      (3)   Where a lot abuts upon the side of a lot zoned residential, there
shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet in width.
(1993 Code, § 91.023)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)  Penalty, see §
153.999
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.035  HEIGHT AND AREA EXCEPTIONS AND SUPPLEMENTS.
   The following requirements or regulations qualify or supplement, as the case
may be, the zone regulations or requirements appearing elsewhere in this
chapter.
   (A)   Public or semi-public buildings,  hospitals,  sanatoriums, schools and
churches or temples, where permitted in a zone, may be erected to a height not
exceeding 96 feet.
   (B)   Chimneys, water tanks or towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks ornamental
towers or spires, wireless or broadcasting towers, or monuments, cupolas,
domes, false mansards, parapet walls, similar structures and necessary
mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height in accordance with existing
or hereafter adopted ordinances.
   (C)   Every part of a required yard shall be open from its lowest point to
the sky unobstructed, except for the ordinary protection of sills, belt
courses, cornices, buttresses ornamental features and eaves; provided, however,
that none of the above projections shall project into a minimum side yard more
than 24 inches.
   (D)   Open or enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways, balconies and other
necessary unenclosed projections, projecting into a minimum yard or court not
more than 50% of the required side yard and the ordinary projections of
chimneys and flues may be permitted by the Building Inspector where same are so
placed as not to obstruct the light and ventilation.
   (E)   Municipally owned and operated public utility uses including water
distribution uses and electric power transmission lines and transformer
stations may be located in a residential zone.  Such uses shall  not  include
repair or storage  facilities  for supplies or equipment.
(1993 Code, § 91.035)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.036  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Within the zones established by this chapter there may exist
buildings, land, uses and farming practices which were lawful before this
chapter was adopted but which would be prohibited or restricted under the terms
of this chapter.  It is the intent of this chapter to permit these
nonconforming uses and practices to continue until they are removed or changed
in any way.
   (B)   All  farming  or  agricultural  practices  or  procedures, including
livestock operations, in effect at the time of adoption may continue as
nonconforming uses, if they are prohibited under the terms of this chapter, but
those practices or procedures may not be changed or increased in scope or
extent unless in conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   The lawful use of a “building” existing at the time of the passage of
this chapter shall not be affected by this chapter, although such use does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter; and such use may be extended
throughout the building provided no structural alterations, except those
required by law or ordinance or ordered by an authorized officer to secure the
safety of the building are made therein, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building. If such nonconforming building is
removed or the nonconforming use of such building is discontinued for a
continuous period exceeding 180 days, every future use of such premises shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The lawful use of “land” existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter, although such use does not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
shall not be affected by this chapter; provided, however, that no such
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor shall any nonconforming
use be extended to occupy a greater area of land than that occupied by such use
at the time of the passage of this chapter.  If such nonconforming use is
discontinued for a continuous period exceeding 180 days, any future use of said
land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the same or higher
classification according to the provisions of this chapter. When a zone shall
hereafter be changed, any then existing nonconforming use in such changed zone
may be continued or changed to a use of a similar or higher classification
provided all other regulations governing the new use are complied with.
Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been discontinued or changed to
a higher classification or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter
be changed to a nonconforming use of a lower  classification. The  order of
classification of uses from the highest to lowest for the purposes of this
section shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential uses;
      (2)   Business uses; and
      (3)   Industrial uses.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the restoration
of a building destroyed to the extent of not more than 80% of its replacement
value, exclusive of foundations, by fire, explosion or other casualty or act of
God or the public enemy, if such building is repaired or rebuilt within one
year of the date of such damage but not thereafter.  A building damaged more
than 80% of its replacement value shall be rebuilt to conform to this chapter. 
This chapter shall not prevent the continued occupancy or use of such building
or part thereof which existed at the time of such partial destruction.
(1993 Code, § 91.036)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.037  STREAM BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Stream buffer. A minimum of 60-foot vegetative buffer is required
along all perennial surface waters indicated on the most recent versions of
USGS 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographical maps. A Town representative
shall be responsible for determination if surface waters are perennial or
intermittent. Desirable artificial stream bank or shoreland stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   Development in buffers. No new development shall be allowed in the
buffer, except water dependent structures and public projects such as road
crossings, utility extensions and greenways where no practical alternative
exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff
away from the surface water and maximize the utilization of stormwater best
management practices (BMPs).
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall become effective on the date of
adoption.
(Res. passed 4-30-2001)
§ 153.038  POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to preserve the
legibility and usefulness of necessary signs, to prevent commercial signs from
conflicting with or obscuring signs related to the public safety or
convenience, to ensure that signs do not become a public hazard or nuisance by
reason of their size, placement number or condition and to protect and enhance
the overall appearance of the community.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or constructed so as to interfere with
visual clearance along any street or at any intersection.
      (2)   Non-governmental signs shall not be attached to or painted on power
poles, light poles, telephone poles, traffic signs or other objects not
intended to support a sign. Signs shall not be placed on trees.
   (C)   Condition. All signs shall be maintained in a legible and safe
condition. Any sign in a deteriorated, rusting or unsafe condition shall be in
violation of this section and the Town Administrator shall order that such sign
be repaired or removed. Wherever a sign becomes structurally unsafe or
endangers the safety of a building or the public, the Town Administrator shall
order that such sign be made safe or removed within ten days.
   (D)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Signs that obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder
or opening intended to provide light, air, entrance or exit for any building as
required by law are prohibited.
      (2)   Signs that obstruct sight distances at intersections or along
public rights-of-way are prohibited.
      (3)   Signs that use the words “stop” or “danger,” or which are a copy or
imitation of or for any reason are likely to be confused with any sign
displayed by public authority are prohibited.
   (E)   Illumination. All lighted signs shall have their lighting directed in
such a manner as to illuminate only the face of the sign and shall be shielded
so that the source of the light is not visible and does not create a hazard or
nuisance for motorists or nearby residents. All lighted signs shall meet North
Carolina Electrical Codes.
   (F)   Campaign signs.
      (1)   Campaign signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
      (2) All campaign signs shall be removed within ten days after the
election for which they were made.
   (G)   Outdoor advertising.
      (1)   Freeways. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall be allowed
only on U.S. 117 Bypass.
      (2)   All other highways. Outdoor advertising shall be allowed in all
commercial zones including Highway Business, Industrial and Community Shopping.
      (3)   Spacing of signs. No outdoor advertising sign shall be located
closer than 750 feet from any other outdoor advertising sign as measured along
the same side of a road or highway.
      (4)   Total area. The maximum area for the face of any outdoor
advertising sign shall be 400 square feet. The area shall be calculated by
using the smallest rectangle which will encompass the entire sign face. Any
extensions to the sign or any advertising message or copy on the sign
structure, including the name of the outdoor advertising company on the border
or trim, shall be included as part of the sign’s total area.
      (5)   Height. The maximum height of an outdoor advertising sign shall be
50 feet and shall be measured as the vertical distance from the ground below
the sign to the highest part of the sign.
      (6)   Sign size.
         (a)   The maximum vertical height of the outdoor advertising sign face
shall be ten and one-half feet.
         (b)   The maximum horizontal length of the outdoor advertising sign
face shall be 40 feet.
      (7)   Separation from other uses. The minimum distance between outdoor
advertising signs and existing churches, schools or public institutions shall
be no less than 500 feet. The minimum distance between outdoor advertising
signs and existing residences shall be 300 feet, however, if written permission
is obtained from the owner of affected residence(s) within the 300 foot minimum
distance, allowing the outdoor advertising sign to be placed closer than 300
feet, then such permission to place the sign may be granted by the town as long
as all other requirements of this section have been met.
      (8)   Setback. All parts of each outdoor advertising sign shall be set
back no less than 15 feet from any highway right-of-way line.
      (9)   General requirements.
         (a)   Color of structure. A freestanding sign structure, including the
back, shall be painted in a neutral color to blend in with the background
environment of the site.
         (b)   Illumination. Outdoor advertising signs may be illuminated in
accordance with the following requirements.
            1.    Lighting shall be directed to the face of the sign and shall
be shielded so that the source of the light is not visible and does not created
a hazard or nuisance for motorists or nearby residents.
            2.   No flashing, rotating or intermittent illumination shall be
permitted.
            3.   Any illuminated sign shall meet the requirements of the North
Carolina Building Code (Vol. 4) as amended.
      (10)   Number and arrangement of signs. Outdoor advertising signs may be
of single face, double-faced back-to-back or V-type design. If signs on the
same structure face opposite directions, they shall be considered one sign.
      (11)   Obstructions. Regardless of the requirements of this section, no
outdoor advertising sign shall obscure or interfere with official traffic
signs, signals or devices or create a traffic hazard.
      (12)   Structural requirements. All outdoor advertising signs shall be of
unipole design.
   (H)   Variances. The Town Planning Board, in instances where practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from the strict application
of these regulations, may modify or waive certain provisions if such
modification or waiver preserves the purpose and intent of these regulations
and will not negatively affect the public safety and welfare of the residents
of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
§ 153.039  INTERNET CAFÉS.
   (A)   Selling and/or consuming alcoholic beverages are prohibited in
internet cafés.
   (B)   Persons under the age of 18 are prohibited from the premises.
   (C)   All internet cafes shall be located at least one 100 feet from any
school, church or residential use structure (the structure must have had
utilities turned on in the past 12 months to be considered a use), measured
from principle building to principle building.
   (D)   The permitted hours of operation for the internet cafés shall be:
Monday through Sunday 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.
   (E)   All uses meeting the definition of “internet café” as defined in §
153.002 of this chapter that were legitimately established prior to July 22,
2011 (this is the date the first one came to town) shall cease operations and
close or be brought into compliance with the provisions of this code of
ordinances by June of 2013 (date six months from when the ordinance was
adopted).
   (F)   Internet cafes shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building facing
any street, so that a clear and unobstructed view of the interior may be had
from the street.
   (G)   No curtains, screens, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where computers or gaming terminals
are stationed and the real walls of the room so that a clear view of the
interior may be had from the street.
   (H)   Adequate lighting shall be provided inside the internet café as well
as the immediate exterior of the building.
   (I)   The establishment must be a minimum of 500 feet from any other
organization containing electronic gaming terminals.
   (J)   The establishment may contain no more than 30 gaming or computer
monitors.
   (K)   After the commencement of business operations, the Town Board of
Commissioners will have the right to require and may require onsite security on
any individual internet café business where there are police reports and/or
other police related problems.
   (L)   All games and software must be in compliance at all times with
applicable laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2012)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.050  PLAT TO BE APPROVED BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   When more than three residential lots are to be subdivided and sold out of
any one tract during any calendar year on an existing street or secondary road
or any residential lots are to be subdivided and sold on a newly dedicated
street, a plat of said subdivision shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners prior to acceptance for recording by the Register of Deeds and
prior to the issuance of any building permits therein.
(1993 Code, § 91.050)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.051  APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   Approval shall follow the following procedure.
   (A)   The developer or subdivider shall submit five copies of the proposed
plat and any supplementary materials to the Chairperson of the Planning Board
at least seven days prior to the meeting of the Planning Board.
   (B)   The proposed plat shall be checked against the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Planning Board may request the assistance of any of the following
persons or agencies in determining its recommendation on any subdivision:
      (1)   The District Engineer of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation;
      (2)   The County Health Director;
      (3)   The County School Superintendent and Board of Education;
      (4)   The Wayne Soil and Water Conservation District;
      (5)   The County Industrial Development Commission; and
      (6)   Such other agencies and officials as the Planning Board may deem
necessary or desirable.
   (D)   If improvements to the property are required,  such as streets, 
drainage,  water  and  sewer  systems,  and  the  like,  the recommendation of
the Planning Board and final approval by the Board of Commissioners is required
before any such improvements may be begun.
   (E)   If the Planning Board should disapprove the proposed plat, the reasons
for such action shall be stated and recommendations made on the basis of which
the proposed subdivision would be approved.
   (F)   Failure on the part of the Planning Board to act within 60 days after
the proposed plat is submitted shall be deemed approval.
   (G)   Once a recommendation has been made by the Planning Board or once 60
days has expired after submission, the Board of Commissioners shall  consider
the proposed subdivision at its next regularly scheduled meeting.  At that
time, final approval and disapproval shall be decided by the Board of
Commissioners, unless final determination is postponed to another meeting.
   (H)   (1)   All subdivision lots not located on existing paved streets or
secondary roads shall be located on a properly drained and paved street.  If
the subdivision is to be located in part or in whole within the town limits,
the developer shall also install water and sewer lines to serve each lot. 
      (2)   The water and sewer lines shall be installed in accordance with
specifications  established  by  the  Board  of Commissioners.  If more than
ten residential lots are to be subdivided out of any tract which is contiguous
with the town limits,  the developer shall also install water and sewer lines
to serve each lot. The water and sewer lines shall be installed in accordance
with specifications established by the Board of Commissioners. 
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall determine which of these
improvements must be completed prior to the issuance of any building permits. 
If any of the improvements are to be completed after the final approval of the
subdivision and the issuance of building permits, the developer shall post a
bond with adequate security or guarantees satisfactory to the Board of
Commissioners in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the installation of
the required improvements, whereby said improvements may be completed without
cost to the town in the event of default by the developer.
      (4)   No building permit shall be issued on any lot on any subdivision
until the final plat has been approved by the Board of Commissioners and until
all improvements have been made or the bond posted as provided herein.
   (I)   All plats submitted for approval shall include the layout of all lots
with the area of each lot, all street rights-of-way, all other rights-of-way
and easements, all building setback lines required by this chapter and such
other information as the Planning Board may deem necessary and appropriate.
   (J)   Proposed street names shall be subject to approval by the Board of
Commissioners.
(1993 Code, § 91.051)  (Ord. passed 4-6-81)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.065  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR EXPAND PARK.
   Prior to the placement of more than two mobile homes on any property in
single ownership or prior to the construction of any new mobile home park or
court or prior to the expansion of any existing mobile home park or court, the
developer shall make application to the Building Inspector for a permit to
construct or expand such a park. The application shall be accompanied by five
copies of the proposed park plan.  Such application must be received at least
seven days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board. If the
property is not already zoned for mobile homes, the application for a zoning
change shall include the information required in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 91.065)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.066  INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN PARK PLAN.
   The park plan shall be drawn to a scale of 50 feet to one inch or larger and
shall include the following:
   (A)   The name of the park, the names and addresses of the owner or owners
and the designer or surveyor;
   (B)   Date, scale and approximate north arrow;
   (C)   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearings and distances;
   (D)   Site plan showing streets, driveways, open areas, recreation areas,
parking spaces, service buildings, watercourses, water and sewer easements,
mobile home spaces and all structures to be located on the site;
   (E)   Vicinity map showing the location of the park and the surrounding land
usage;
   (F)   Names and all adjoining property owners;
   (G)   The proposed plan for providing gas, surface water drainage, street
lights, electrical power, water supply, solid waste and sewage disposal
facilities for each lot and structure contained in the park; and
   (H)   Land contours with vertical intervals of not less than two feet for
all mobile home parks with 25 mobile home spaces or more.
(1993 Code, § 91.066)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.067  PLANNING BOARD REVIEW.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall transmit the proposed park plan to the
Chairperson of the Planning Board for review at its next meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board shall review the proposed plan to determine
if it is in accordance with the above requirements and the applicable zoning
requirement. If the Planning Board should disapprove the proposed park plan,
the reasons for such action and recommended changes shall be given to the
developer or his or her agent.
      (2)   After the Planning Board has approved conditionally the proposed
park plan, one approved copy shall be sent to the Building Inspector and one
approved copy shall be given to the developer or his or her agent.  The
developer or his or her agent shall then obtain approval from the County Health
Department and the County Electrical Inspector.
(1993 Code, § 91.067)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.068  ACCESS.
   (A)   The proposed access to the park shall conform to the standards of the
State Department of Transportation.
   (B)   The developer or his or her agent must obtain approval of the District
Highway Engineer of the State Department of Transportation  prior  to 
beginning construction.
   (C)   If the District Highway Engineer requires any change in access, the
developer or his or her agent shall resubmit the proposed plan to the Planning
Board for its further approval prior to beginning construction.
(1993 Code, § 91.068)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.069  WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   If town water and sewer is to be provided to the mobile home park, it
shall be designed and constructed so as to be compatible with the existing town
system of water distribution and sewage disposal. Any extension of lines from
existing town lines shall be at the expense of the developer, including any
lift stations or other requirements which may be required by the town.
   (B)   If a community water or sewer system is to be provided, the County
Health Department and if necessary, the Division of Health (Department of Human
Resources) and the Environmental Management Commission, shall review the plan
and determine if it is in accordance with their health  standards and
regulations in  the following particulars:
      (1)   Source of water and water distribution system;
      (2)   Sanitary sewage disposal and treatment system;
      (3)   Adequate lot size, if septic tanks are to be used for sewage
disposal and treatment; and
      (4)   Adequate facilities for solid waste storage, collection and
disposal.
(1993 Code, § 91.069)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.070  REVIEW OF PLAN BY ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   The County Electrical Inspector shall review the proposed park plan to
determine if the proposed electrical distribution system is in accordance with
electrical codes adopted by the county.
(1993 Code, § 91.070)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.071  DEFICIENCIES TO BE CORRECTED BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH DEVELOPMENT.
   If any agency which is required to review the plan finds any deficiencies in
the proposed plan, the developer or his or her agent shall correct such
deficiencies before proceeding further with development.
(1993 Code, § 91.071)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.072  CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   After receiving approval of the park plan by the Planning Board, the
County Health Department and if necessary, the Division of Health (Department
of Human Resources) and the Environmental Management Commission, the District
Highway Engineer and the County Electrical Inspector, the Building Inspector is
authorized to issue a construction permit. The intent of this permit is to
enable the execution of the park plan in the field and shall not be construed
to entitle the recipient to offer spaces for rent or lease or to operate a
mobile home park as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   If the construction of the park has not begun within 12 months from
the issue date of the construction permit, the construction permit shall become
null and void.  However, the Planning Board may grant an extension of up to 90
days of the construction permit if the developer appears before the Planning
Board and shows good cause for delay in beginning construction.
(1993 Code, § 91.072)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.073  OPERATING LICENSE.
   When the developer has completed the construction of the mobile home park or
court, he or she shall apply to the Building Inspector for an operating
license.  The Building Inspector and a representative of the County Health
Department shall make an on-site inspection of the park prior to the issuance
of any operating license.  The operating license issued to the developer shall
constitute authority to lease or rent spaces in the mobile home park and no
spaces shall be leased or rented until such operating license has been issued.
(1993 Code, § 91.073)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.074  DEVELOPMENT IN STAGES.
   When a mobile home park is to be developed in stages, the proposed park plan
may be submitted for the entire development but the stages shall be clearly
denoted thereon and application for an operating license may be made for each
noted stage as it is completed.
(1993 Code, § 91.074)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.075  IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   Mobile home park identification signs shall be limited to one sign per park
entrance. No sign shall exceed 36 square feet in area. Only indirect,
nonflashing lights may be used for illumination.
(1993 Code, § 91.075)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)  Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.076  MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall maintain streets, street lighting (if outside the town
limits), parking areas, community water and sewer systems, recreation areas and
common areas.  Failure to provide maintenance on a basis at least equal to that
provided by the town for its similar facilities shall be grounds for revocation
of the operating license. Upon receipt of a complaint that the developer is not
in compliance with these standards or upon inspection by the Building
Inspector, which results in his or her finding that the mobile home park is not
in compliance with this chapter, the Building Inspector shall give notice to
the developer to bring the complained of facility into compliance within 30
days of said notice. If compliance has not been met within said 30-day period,
notice shall be given for the developer to appear before the Board of
Commissioners at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which meeting the
Board of Commissioners may revoke the operating license. Upon revocation
thereof, the mobile home park shall be closed and all residents given 30 days
in which to relocate their mobile homes.
(1993 Code, § 91.076)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.077  UTILITY AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a municipal or community water or sewer system is provided, all
mobile homes located within the mobile home park shall be connected thereto and
no individual water or sewage disposal shall be allowed within the park.
   (B)   All community water and sewage disposal systems shall be developed and
maintained in accordance with the standards of the Sanitary Engineering
Division of the State Division of Health (Department of Human Resources) or
the  Environmental Management Commission, as the case may require.
   (C)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with at least a four-inch
diameter sewer riser pipe.  The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on each
space that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
   (D)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least
three inches and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth
inch per foot.  The sewer connection shall consist of one pipe line only
without any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight including
connection from trailer to sewer riser pipe.
   (E)   All material used for sewer connections shall be semirigid, corrosion-
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
   (F)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer pipe when a mobile home
does not occupy a space. Surface drainage shall be directed away from the
riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation.
   (G)   The storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the mobile home
park shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards or pollution.
   (H)   All solid waste containing garbage shall be  stored in standard
flytight, watertight, rodent-proof containers, with a capacity not more than 32
gallons which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
lot.  Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to
properly store all solid waste containing garbage. The mobile home park
management shall be responsible for the proper storage, collection and disposal
of solid waste.
   (I)   Stands shall be provided for all containers.  Such container stands
shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being tipped, to minimize
spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around them.
   (J)   All solid waste containing garbage shall be collected at least once
weekly. Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or
private agencies, the mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All
solid waste containing garbage shall be collected and transported to covered
vehicles or covered containers.
   (K)   Where municipal or private disposal service is not available, the
mobile home park operator shall dispose of the solid waste by transporting to a
disposal site approved by the Health Director.
   (L)   Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
Health Director.
   (M)   Parks shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris which may
provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other
pests.
   (N)   Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above the ground.
   (O)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any  structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (P)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects. Parks shall be so
maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison
sumac, and other  noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open areas
shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(1993 Code, § 91.077)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.078  STREET LIGHTS.
   All streets in a mobile home park located outside the town limits shall be
adequately illuminated fromsunset until sunrise by the developer. The minimum
size street light shall be a 175-watt mercury- vapor (approximately 7,000 lumen
class) or its equivalent, spaced at intervals of not more than 400 feet.
(1993 Code, § 91.078)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.079  INSPECTIONS.
   The County Health Department, the County Electrical Inspector and the
Building Inspector are hereby authorized to make such inspections as are
necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter.  It shall be
the duty of the owners or occupants of mobile home parks to give these persons
and agencies free access to such premises at reasonable times for the purpose
of inspection.  The person to whom an operating license for the mobile home
park is issued shall operate the parking compliance with this chapter and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.  The park owner or
operator  shall  notify the park occupants  of all applicable provisions of
this chapter and inform them of their duties and responsibilities under this
chapter.
(1993 Code, § 91.079)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.080  MOBILE HOME MOVING PERMITS.
   (A)   In order to protect the town against the nonpayment of ad valorem
taxes on mobile homes and the nonpayment of water and utility bills, it is
hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed
any mobile home situated within the town limits without first obtaining a
moving permit from the Town Clerk. The moving permit shall be conspicuously
displayed near the license tag on the rear of the mobile home at all times
during its transportation. Permits required by this section may be obtained at
the office of the Town Clerk during normal business hours.
   (B)   In order to obtain a permit as provided herein, persons shall be
required to:
      (1)   Pay all taxes, water and utility bills due to be paid by the owner
to the town; or
      (2)   Show proof to the Town Clerk that all taxes, water and utility
bills have been paid.
   (C)   In addition to complying with the provisions above, the owners of
mobile homes shall also furnish the following information to the Town Clerk:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner;
      (2)   The address or location of the premises from which the mobile home
is to be moved;
      (3)   The address or location of the place to which the mobile home is to
be moved; and
      (4)   The name and address of the carrier who is to transport the mobile
home.
   (D)  No permit required by this chapter shall be issued by the Town Clerk
unless and until all taxes and water and utility bills due to be paid by the
owner to the town,  including any penalties or interest thereon, have been
paid.  Any taxes which have not yet been computed, but which will become due
during the current calendar year shall be determined as in the case of
prepayments.
   (E)   The permit shall be in substantially the following form:
 
MOVING PERMIT
 
 
Town of Pikeville                     Permit Number _______________
State of North Carolina                  Date of Issuance ______________
Permission is hereby granted to _________________________________________
(Name & address of owner) _________________________________________
   (Name & address of carrier) to remove the following described mobile home:
_______________________________
   (Make, model, size, serial number, etc.) _________________________________________
 
From: _________________________________________
            (Address)
 
To:  _________________________________________
            (Address)
 
This permit is issued in accordance with an ordinance of the Town of Pikeville entitled
“An Ordinance to Require Moving Permits to Move Mobile Homes” adopted on the 3rd day of
December, 1979.
 
_________________________________________
   (Signed)
   Town Clerk
   Town of Pikeville
 
 
   (F)   Any person required by this section to obtain a moving permit who
fails to do so or who fails to properly display the same shall be subject to a
fine or imprisonment or both, as  set  forth in §
153.999. This penalty shall be in addition to any penalties imposed for failure
to list property for taxation and interest for failure to pay taxes, utility
and water bills as provided by the ordinances of this town and the laws of this
state.  Further, any person who transports a mobile home from a location in the
town other than a manufacturer or retailer of mobile homes without having
properly displayed thereon the moving permit required by this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine or
imprisonment or both, as set forth in §
153.999.  Any law enforcement officer of the town, the county or the state who
apprehends any person violating the provisions of this section shall detain
such person until satisfactory arrangements have been made to meet the
requirements of this section.
   (G)   In the absence of the Town Clerk, the Mayor or any Town Commissioner
is authorized to act in his or her stead.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, MOBILE HOME means any structure that:
      (1)   Is designed, constructed and intended for use as a dwelling house,
office, place of business  or similar place of habitation; and
      (2)   Is capable of being transported from place to place on wheels
attached to its frame.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981)  Penalty, see §
153.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.095  ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   No land within the zoning jurisdiction of the town shall be used or
occupied and no structure within the zoning jurisdiction of the town shall be
erected, moved, extended or enlarged, nor shall any excavation or filling of
any lot for the construction of any building be commenced until a zoning permit
shall have been issued by the Zoning Enforcement.
   (B)   Each application to the Zoning Enforcement Officer for a zoning permit
shall be accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The size of the building to be erected and its location on the lot;
      (3)   The location of any existing structures on the lot;
      (4)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate, if any;
      (5)   The  dimensions  and  location  of  off-street parking facilities;
      (6)   The use of said land or structures; and
      (7)   Any other information the Zoning Enforcement Officer may require
which will aid in determining conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Upon certification that the intended use of the land is in conformity
with provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue a
buildingzoning permit upon the payment of a fee to be computed as follows.
      (1)   A minimum fee of $5 shall be charged for all permits. The minimum
fee shall apply to all permits up to $5,000.
      (2)   For all permits in excess of $5,000, the fee shall be $1 per 1,000
to the nearest thousand.
   (D)   A record of all zoning permits shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (E)   Any zoning permit issued shall become invalid if the work authorized
by it has not been commenced within six months of the date of issuance or if
the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of one year.
   (F)   (1)   No land or building shall be used or occupied until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
stating that the building or proposed use complies with the provisions of this
chapter. A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or a part of a
building, shall be applied for before such structure is occupied. It shall be
issued within ten days after the erection or alteration of such building or
part, shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   No previously unoccupied structure shall be occupied until the
certificate of occupancy is issued.
   (G)   If the zoning permit or occupancy certificate is denied by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer because of nonconformity with the provisions of this
chapter, the applicant may appeal the action of the Zoning Enforcement Officer
to the Board of Adjustment.
(1993 Code, § 91.090)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.096  ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Town Administrator shall be the Zoning Enforcement Officer and is
authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. If the 
Zoning Enforcement Officer finds that any of the provisions of this chapter are
being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person responsible for
such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.  He or she shall also take any other action authorized
by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions.
(1993 Code, § 91.091)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.097  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   A Board of Adjustment is hereby established.  The word BOARD when used in
this section shall be construed to mean the Board of Adjustment. The Planning
Board is designated as a planning agency for the town.  The Board of Adjustment
shall be the Planning Board of the town sitting in separate session.  Terms of
office will be consistent with that of the Planning Board.
   (A)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at a regular
place and shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings in a book maintained for that purpose only showing the vote of each
member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, an indication of
such fact; and final disposition of appeals shall be by recorded resolution
indicating the reasons of the Board therefor, all of which shall be a public
record. No final action shall be taken on any matter unless a quorum is
present.
   (B)   An appeal from the decision of the Zoning Enforcement Officer may be
taken to the Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the town affected by such decision. Such appeal
shall be taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the Board
by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken and with the Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.  The officer from
whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.  An
appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certified to the Board after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her by reasons of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by restraining order, which may be granted by the Board or by a
court of record on application of notice to the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer.  The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order,  requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Enforcement Officer to decide in favor of the applicant any matter in
which it is required to pass under the zoning ordinance or to effect any
variation in such ordinance;
      (2)   To permit a temporary building for business in the residential
zone, which is incidental to the residential development, such permit to be
issued for a period of not more than one year; and
      (3)   To authorize, upon appeal, in specific cases variance from the
terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter will result in undue hardship and so that the spirit of this chapter,
shall be observed and substantial justice done. In considering all proposed
variations to this chapter the Board shall, before making any finding in a
specified case, first determine that the proposed variation will not constitute
any change in the zones  shown on the zoning map and will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or materially increase
the public danger of fire and safety or materially diminish or impair
established property values within the surrounding area or in any other respect
impair the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
         (a)   In granting a variance, the Board may attach hereto such
conditions regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed
building, structure or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of the
purposes of this chapter.
         (b)   Before a variance is granted it shall be known that special
circumstances are attached to the property which do not generally apply to
other property in the neighborhood. A variance may be granted only when the
practical difficulty or undue hardship complained of is due to the particular
characteristics of the property and not to the general conditions of the
neighborhood which may reflect an undue stringency of the ordinance itself.  A
hardship peculiar to the applicant, as distinguished from others affected by
the general rule, must be shown. The fact that property may be utilized more
profitably will not be considered adequate to justify the Board in granting a
variance.
   (D)   All decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be filed in the Office
of the Board of Commissioners and a copy of said decision shall be mailed
registered mail, return receipt requested, to each person or property owner who
is affected by the decision.
   (E)   Any person or persons, jointly or severally, aggrieved by any decision
of the Board or any taxpayer or any officer, department, board or bureau of the
town may within 30 days after the filing of the decision in the office of the
Board, but not thereafter, present to a court of competent jurisdiction a
petition duly verified, setting forth that such decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, specifying the grounds of illegality, whereupon such decision of
said Board shall be subject to review as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 4-6-1981; Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
§ 153.098  PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   A Planning Board is hereby established.  It shall consist of five
members, four of which shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners for a
term of three years each and one of which shall be appointed by the County
Board of Commissioners for a term of three years.  The terms of all current
members of the Planning Board shall expire on December 31, 1993.  The members
appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall at all times of their service
reside within the town limits; the members appointed by the County
Commissioners shall at all times of their service reside in the area zoned
outside the town limits.  All members shall serve until their replacement is
appointed and takes office.  All appointments to fill vacancies shall be for
the unexpired term.  The members of the Planning Board shall receive no
compensation for their services.
   (B)   All meetings of the Planning Board shall be held at a regular place
and shall be open to the public.  The Planning Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings in a book maintained for that purpose only showing the vote of each
member upon each question or if absent or failing to vote, an indication of
such fact; and final disposition of appeals shall be by recorded resolution
indicating the reasons of the Planning Board therefor, all of which shall be a
public record.  No final action shall be taken on any matter unless a quorum be
present.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To make recommendations on all amendments to this chapter, whether
proposed by the Board of Commissioners or by petition.  Anytime an amendment is
proposed, the Planning Board shall have 30 days within which to submit its
recommendations.  Failure of the Planning Board to submit its recommendations
within this time period shall constitute a favorable recommendation.  The
Planning Board’s report shall be submitted in writing to the Clerk and in the
case of amendments by petition, to the petitioner or petitioners; and
      (2)   To make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners on all
subdivision proposals.
   (D)   In arriving at the final recommendation, the Planning Board shall work
with the developer and all concerned agencies in arriving at an acceptable
subdivision or amendment.  The Planning Board shall determine whether or not
the proposed subdivision conforms to all requirements of this chapter and shall
not recommend approval until the subdivision does comply.  The Planning Board
shall discuss with the developer any changes deemed advisable and the kind and
extent of improvements to be made by him or her.
(1993 Code, § 91.093)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.099  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time on its own motion or on
petition after public notice and hearing as provided by the law, amend,
supplement or change, modify or repeal the boundaries or regulations herein or
subsequently established.  In case, however, of a protest against such change
signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed
to be changed or of the areas of the lots on either side thereof or of the
frontage immediately in rear thereof or directly opposite thereto, such
amendment shall not be passed except by a three-fourths vote of all the members
of the Board of Commissioners present and voting. The protest procedure shall
apply only to changes in existing zoning on property already within the town
limits and previously zoned.  Said protest procedure shall not apply to the
initial zoning of new territory within or outside the town limits as the result
of annexation or otherwise. Before the Board of Commissioners may consider said
change or amendment, it shall submit the same to the Planning Board for its
recommendation pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 91.094)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $50 or imprisoned not
exceeding 30 days.  Each day that violation continues to exist shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
153.065 through
153.079 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $100 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days as provided by G.S. §
14-4.
(1993 Code, § 91.999)  (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Applicable land
   
154.07   Establishment of special flood hazard areas
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Interpretation
   
154.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.13   Rights and liabilities under existing flood damage prevention
ordinance
   
154.14   Outstanding floodplain development permits
   
154.15   Effective date
Administration
   
154.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
154.26   Floodplain development application
   
154.27   Floodplain development permit
   
154.28   Floodplain development certification requirements
   
154.29   Corrective procedures
   
154.30   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.40   General standards
   
154.41   Specific standards
   
154.42   Standards for floodplains without established flood elevations
   
154.43   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
154.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
154.45   Standards for areas of shallow flooding
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the  G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6; G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.
19, parts 3, 5 and 8; G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8, delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of
Commissioners does ordain as follows.
§ 154.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The floodprone areas within the jurisdiction  of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood loses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in floodprone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within floodprone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous  to health, safety and
property due to water, erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases in
erosion flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filing, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which increase flood hazards to other lands.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in floodprone areas;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  A structure which is located
on the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which
is incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and
the like qualify as accessory structures on farms and may or may not be located
on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING).  An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of  being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFF). A determination as published in the Flood
Insurance Study of the water surface area of the base flood. This elevation,
when combined with the “freeboard”, establishes the “regulatory flood
protection elevation”.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings of other structures, mining, dredging,
filing, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as G.S. §  130A-290(a)(6).
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the flooplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
innundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency where the boundaries of the
special flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance provided under the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delinietated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY  report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs)
if published.
   FLOODPRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN orFLOODPRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved property, water and sanitation facilities or
structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base hood elevation (BFE) to an account
for watershed development as well as limitations of the engineering
methodologies for the determination of flood elevations. The FREEBOARD plus the
base flood  elevation establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation”.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing, on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to quality as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in,
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program;
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historical district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program; or
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG)Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq., the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building or deck support, after completion of the
building. For Zones A and AO, use the natural grade elevation prior to
construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab or grade of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other
than a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARKORSUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value) or adjusted tax
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD), as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988 or other  control datum used as a reference for establishing
varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations
(BFLs), shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine
datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and or NUISANCE. means anything which is injurious to the
safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood or any considerable
number of persons or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use in the
customary manner, of any navigable lake or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.  The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within special flood hazard areas
designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO, the reference level is the top of
the lowest floor or bottom of lowest attendant utility including ductwork,
whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, to which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within special flood hazard areas must be protected. Where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus
two feet of freeboard. Where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall
be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.  To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two 
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river, (including
tributaries) stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. A non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36).
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
1%or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in§
154.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Substantial improvement and the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, additional placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured
home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of
piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanant construction
does not include land preparation, such as cleaving, grading and filing, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it
include excavation for a basement footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms: nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground. For floodplain management
purposes, “principally above ground”  means that at least 51% of the actual
cash value of the structure is above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure  taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.25 through
154.42 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(existing grade in case of Zone AO) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or marine areas.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 11-7-2005)
§ 154.06  APPLICABLE LAND.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) if applicable, of
the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.07  ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified by the federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) or produced under the cooperating technical
state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its flood hazard boundary
map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood maps such
as the Flood insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway
Maps (FBFM), for the town dated_________, which, with accompanying supporting
data and any revision thereto, including Letters of Map Amendment or Revision,
are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The special flood hazard areas also include those defined through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by government
agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM. This includes,
but is not limited to:
      (1)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of Article 7.
Section C (11 &, 12)of this chapter;
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM; or
      (3)   Post-disaster Flood Recovery Maps.
   (C)   In addition, upon annexation to the town or inclusion in the Extra-
Territorial Jurisdiction (ETI), the special flood hazard areas identified by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and/or produced under the
cooperating technical state agreement between the state and FEMA, as stated
above, for the unincorporated areas of the county, with accompanying maps and
other supporting data and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas as determined in §
154.07.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to appeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements ordinance or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 11-7-2005)
§ 154.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of food protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
§ 154.13  RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE.
   This section  comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance enacted April 6, 1981 as amended and it is
not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town, enacted on April 6, 1981, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.14  OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter: provided, however, that when construction is nor begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”,  is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Floodpiain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(Wetlands, Endangered Species, Erosion and Sedimentation Control, Riparian
Buffers, Mining and the like) may be required and require that copies of such
permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into flood ways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.43 are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.25;
      (7)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed in accordance with §
154.25;
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with §
154.26;
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
154.26 and
154.41;
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears
to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make
the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in this chapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
154.25 obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
154.43  in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
or non-encroachment area data has been presided in accordance with §
154.99. obtain, review and reasonably utilize any flood way data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter.
      (13)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current natural topography information at the site, the
property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA, and maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed, to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirement of state or local laws or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection of other enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.29; and
      (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS report, FIRM and/or other official flood maps studies adopted under §
154.07 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of
Map Change, issued by state and/or FEMA. Notify the state and FEMA of mapping
needs.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.26  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application Requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)    A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited  to the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development;
      (2)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading pavement areas, materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and other
development;
      (3)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on the
FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
      (4)   Food zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.07;
      (5)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.07;
      (6)   The base flood elevation (BFF) where provided as set forth in §§
154.07,
154.25 and
154.42; and
      (7)    The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Proposed elevation and method. Proposed elevation and method thereof
of all development within a special flood hazard area including but not limited
to:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed referents
level (including basement) of all structures;
      (2)    Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
      (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
   (C)   Floodproofing. If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 81-65) along with detailed back-up computations and operational plans that
specify the location on a FIRM panel of foodproofing measures, the entity
responsible for transportation and installation according to the design within
the warning time available and maintenance of floodproofing measures assuring
their effectiveness when installed. Floodproofing certificate and back-up
computations and operational plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect to ensure that the non-residential
floodproofed development will meet the floodproofing criteria in §
154.41.
   (D)   Foundation plan. A foundation plan drawn to scale which shall include
details of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this
chapter are met. These details include but are not limited to:
      (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns, posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
      (2)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on
walls in accordance with §
154.41when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-
30;
      (3)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (4)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like);
      (6)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
154.41 of this chapter are met; and
      (7)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable. Including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project or the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.27  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   The floodplain development permit shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   A description of the development to be permitted under the floodplain
development permit;
   (B)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
154.25;
   (C)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the reference
level and all attendant utilities;
   (D)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required tor the protection
of all public utilities;
   (E)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines; and
   (F)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway or
non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.28  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Elevation certificates.
      (1)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to the
actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of
the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification
shall be prepared by or under direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
      (2)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-35) or floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) is required after the reference level is
established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. Elevation certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by same. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order the project.
      (3)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. Elevation certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (4)   If non-residential floodproofing  is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
81-65) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and
all the attendant utilities in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of, a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a Floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (5)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required  per §
154.40.
      (6)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation: an engineering report on
the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the
watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and downstream:
and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit.
   (B)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located within
Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 are exempt from the elevation floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.41;
      (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.41; and
      (3)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting requirements
of §
154.41.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.29  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
their property.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 days, nor more than 365 days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.30  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Commissioners, as established by the town hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon site
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in§
154.05 of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   Passing upon variances. In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
154.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Written report. A written report addressing each of the above factors
shall be submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Attached conditions. Upon consideration of the factors listed above
and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this chapter.
   (G)   Increase in flood levels. Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway or non-encroachment area if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon termination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced reference level elevation.
      (5)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
      (7)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard area; provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (d) The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws; and
         (e)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Crime Control
and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar
days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall he constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding, these include, but are not limited to, HVAC  equipment, water
softener units, bath kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric gas meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers and the like), hot water heaters and electric out lets-switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided that the bulk of the building or structure
below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-
encroachment area or stream setback is not increased and provided that such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not be
permitted in special flood hazard areas, except by variance as specified in §
154.30. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to §
154.28 of this chapter.
   (K)   All development proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All development proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All development proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
154.07 through
154.25, the following provisions, in addition to §
154.40(A) are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvements
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in§
154.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.07of this chapter. Structures, located in A, AO, AE and A1-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure below the required flood protection
elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
official as set forth in §
154.28 along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)    Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement in
accordance with the State Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes, 1995
Edition, and any revision thereto adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance
pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15 or a certified engineered foundation.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36  inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All foundation enclosures or skirting shall be in accordance with §
154.41.
      (4)   An vacation plan must be developed for evacuation of all residents
of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged manufactured home
parks or subdivisions located within floodprone areas. This plan shall be filed
with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the local Emergency
Management Coordinator.
   (C)   Elevated buildings.  Enclosed areas, of new construction or
substantially improved structures, which are below the regulatory flood
protection elevation:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door) or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in  Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, measures to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the
following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings must be at least one square
inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each area must
have openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required openings shall be no higher than one
foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other opening
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Foundation enclosures made of flexible skirting are not
considered enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires opening as outlined above.
   (D)   Additions improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)    Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure;
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction;
         (c)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction;
         (d)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new  construction; and
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing, structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (e)   Where a fire wall or independent permanent load-bearing wall is
provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall
be considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction:
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either;
      (1)   Be onsite for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed
and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including anchoring
and elevation requirements of §§
154.26 and
154.40.
   (F)   Temporal non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, applicants must submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in
the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which, the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified should be minimal with total time on site not to
exceed one year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of me individual responsible for
the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a trucking
company to ensure the availability of removal equipment when needed; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (G)   Accessory structures.   When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with  §
154.40;
      (6)   All menace facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with§
154.40;
      (7)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in conformance with §
154.40; and
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not requite an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
154.28.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.42  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07 where no Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to§
154.40, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order.
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or 
accordance with standards in §
154.25.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and either development
proposals located within special flood hazard areas shall provide base flood
elevation (BFE) data if development is greater than five acres or has more than
50 lots manufactured home sites. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be
adopted by reference per §
154.06 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade as required in the regulatory flood
protection elevation definition.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.43  STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such area:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
154.40 through
154.43; and
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with
supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.44  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the Special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
154.40 and
154.41 shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood. Such certification and technical data shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) of this section is satisfied, all development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met: The anchoring and the elevation
standards of§
154.41and the no encroachment standards of division (B)(1) of this section are
met.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.45  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to§
154.40, all new construction and substantial improvements of all structures
shall have the reference level elevated to:
      (1)   At least as high as the depth number specified on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a freeboard of zero feet, above the
highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   At least two feet above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard
of zero feet if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of all non-
residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, floodproof to the same depths
as listed above so that any space below that level shall be watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with, structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per§§
154.28 and
154.40.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure with any of its
requirements, including violation of  conditions and safeguards established in
connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than  $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any, violation.
(Ord. passed 11-7-2005)
CHAPTER 155:  PUBLIC SIGNS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Location
   
155.03   Condition
   
155.04   Prohibited signs
   
155.05   Illumination
   
155.06   Campaign signs
   
155.07   Outdoor advertising
   
155.08   Variances
§ 155.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to preserve the legibility and
usefulness of necessary signs, to prevent commercial signs from conflicting
with or obscuring signs related to the public safety or convenience, to ensure
that signs do not become a public hazard or nuisance by reason of their size,
placement, number or condition and to protect and enhance the overall
appearance of the community.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.02  LOCATION.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected or constructed so as to interfere with visual
clearance along any street or at any intersection.
   (B)   Non-governmental signs shall not be attached to or painted on power
poles, light poles, telephone poles, traffic signs or other objects not
intended to support a sign. Signs shall not be placed on trees.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)
§ 155.03  CONDITION.
   (A)   All signs shall be maintained in a legible and safe condition. Any
sign in a deteriorated, rusting or unsafe condition shall be in violation of
this chapter and the Town Administrator shall order that such sign be repaired
or removed.
   (B)   Wherever a sign becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the safety of
a building or the public, the Town Administrator shall order that such sign be
made safe or removed within ten days.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.04  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs that obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder or
opening intended to provide light, air, entrance or exit for any building as
required by law are prohibited.
   (B)   Signs that obstruct sight distances at intersections or along public
rights-of-way are prohibited.
   (C)   Signs that use the words “stop” or “danger,” or which are a copy or
imitation of or for any reason are likely to be confused with any sign
displayed by public authority are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.05  ILLUMINATION.
   All lighted signs shall have their lighting directed in such a manner as to
illuminate only the face of the sign and shall be shielded so that the source
of the light is not visible and does not create a hazard or nuisance for
motorists or nearby residents. All lighted signs shall meet North Carolina
Electrical Codes.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.06  CAMPAIGN SIGNS.
   (A)   Campaign signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
   (B)   All campaign signs shall be removed within ten days after the election
for which they were made.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.07  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Freeways. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall be allowed only
on U.S. 117 Bypass.
   (B)   Other highways. Outdoor advertising shall be allowed in all commercial
zones including Highway Business, Industrial and Community Shopping.
   (C)   Spacing of signs. No outdoor advertising sign shall be located closer
than 750 feet from any other outdoor advertising sign as measured along the
same side of a road or highway.
   (D)   Total area. The maximum area for the face of any outdoor advertising
sign shall be 400 square feet. The area shall be calculated by using the
smallest rectangle which will encompass the entire sign face. Any extensions to
the sign or any advertising message or copy on the sign structure, including
the name of the outdoor advertising company on the border or trim, shall be
included as part of the sign’s total area.
   (E)   Height. The maximum height of an outdoor advertising sign shall be 50
feet and shall be measured as the vertical distance from the ground below the
sign to the highest part of the sign.
   (F)   Sign size.
      (1)   The maximum vertical height of the outdoor advertising sign face
shall be ten and one-half feet.
      (2)   The maximum horizontal length of the outdoor advertising sign face
shall be 40 feet.
   (G)   Separation from other uses. The minimum distance between outdoor
advertising signs and existing churches, schools or public institutions shall
be no less than 500 feet. The minimum distance between outdoor advertising
signs and existing residences shall be 300 feet, however, if written permission
is obtained from the owner of affected residence(s) within the 300 foot minimum
distance, allowing the outdoor advertising sign to be placed closer than 300
feet, then such permission to place the sign may be granted by the town as long
as all other requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (H)   Setback. All parts of each outdoor advertising sign shall be set back
no less than 15 feet from any highway right-of-way line.
   (I)   Color of structure. A freestanding sign structure, including the back,
shall be painted in a neutral color to blend in with the background environment
of the site.
   (J)   Illumination. Outdoor advertising signs may be illuminated in
accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Lighting shall be directed to the face of the sign and shall be
shielded so that the source of the light is not visible and does not created a
hazard or nuisance for motorists or nearby residents.
      (2)   No flashing, rotating or intermittent illumination shall be
permitted.
      (3)   Any illuminated sign shall meet the requirements of the State
Building Code (Vol. 4) as amended.
   (K)   Number and arrangement of signs. Outdoor advertising signs may be of
single face, double-faced back-to-back or V-type design. If signs on the same
structure face opposite directions, they shall be considered one sign.
   (L)   Obstructions.   Regardless of the requirements of this chapter, no
outdoor advertising sign shall obscure or interfere with official traffic
signs, signals or devices or create a traffic hazard.
   (M)   Structural requirements. All outdoor advertising signs shall be of
unipole design.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.08  VARIANCES.
   The Town Planning Board, in instances where practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships would result from the strict application of these
regulations, may modify or waive certain provisions if such modification or
waiver preserves the purpose and intent of these regulations and will not
negatively affect the public safety and welfare of the residents of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-6-2006)
CHAPTER 156:  PIKEVILLE HISTORIC DISTRICT
Section
   
156.01   Determination of historic significance; finding of interest
   
156.02   Pikeville Historic District designated
   
156.03   Boundary
   
156.04   Boundary map
§ 156.01  DETERMINATION OF HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE; FINDING OF INTEREST.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby finds and determines that the original
downtown business district of the town, and its accompanying residential areas,
is and has been historically significant to the local economic well-being of
the greater Pikeville area. The Board further finds and determines that it is
therefore in the best interest of the town to designate and establish the
original downtown district as a historic business and residential district.
(Ord. 14-110, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 156.02  PIKEVILLE HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATED.
   In accordance with §
156.01, the Board of Commissioners does hereby designate the original downtown
business and residential district as “Historic Pikeville.”
(Ord. 14-110, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 156.03  BOUNDARY.
   The boundary of Historic Pikeville shall be generally as follows:
      Starting at the intersection of W. School St. and NW Railroad St.,
proceed southerly along the western right-of-way of NW Railroad St. to the
intersection of NW Railroad St. and W. Vail St.; thence, easterly to the
intersection of E. Vail St. and NE Railroad St.; thence southerly along the
eastern right-of-way of NE Railroad St. to the northern lot line of 102 NE
Railroad St.; thence easterly to the northeast boundary of 102 NE Railroad St.;
thence generally southerly along the rear lot lines of all the lots lacing NE
Railroad St. and SE Railroad St.; thence along the eastern property line of 101
E. Ham St. to the northern right-of-way of E. Ham St.
      Thence westerly to the west lot line of the old fire station at 120 SW
Railroad St.; thence generally northerly along the rear lot lines of all the
lots facing SW Railroad St.; thence, westerly along the rear lot lines of all
the lots facing W. Main St. to the east right-of-way of S. Mill St.
      Thence northerly to the north right-of-way of W. Main St.; thence
easterly to the west lot line of the Pikeville Library at 106 W. Main St.;
thence alternating northerly, easterly and northerly along the rear lot lines
of the lots lacing NW Railroad St. to the northwest properly line of 305 NW
Railroad St.; thence westerly to the eastern right-of-way of N. Mill St.;
thence northerly along the eastern right-of-way of N. Mill St. to its
intersection with W. School St.; thence easterly along the south right-of-way
of W. School St. to the point of origin.
(Ord. 14-110, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 156.04  BOUNDARY MAP.
   A boundary map depicting Historic Pikeville shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Administrator for further reference purposes.
(Ord. 14-110, passed 3-10-2014)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1993 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                        Code Section
1-593                               10.05
Ch. 7A                              154.30
                                    91.99,
                                    94.07,
14-4                                112.99,
                                    151.11,
                                    153.999
14-4(a)                             10.99
Ch. 14, Art. 37                     110.05,
                                    110.29
14-136 through14-140.1              98.15
14-177 through 202.1Art. 26         112.10
14-203 through 208                  112.10
17C-10                              31.26
20-50                               71.01
20-54                               71.01
20-156                              70.10
20-219.11                           90.09
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                     90.11
Ch. 87                              152.02,
                                    152.08
90-112(d) through (f)               131.06
97-1 et seq.                        31.28
105-349                             31.04
105-350                             31.04
106-940 through 106-950             98.15
130A-184                            91.03
130A-290(a)(b)                      154.05
Ch. 130A, Art. 9                    154.05
130A-185                            91.08
130A-190                            91.08
130A-290(a)(35)                     154.05
130A-290(a)(36)                     154.05
136-143                             90.13
136.141 et seq.                     90.13
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6            154.01
143-143.15                          154.41
143-215.3(a)(1)                     98.19
143-215.112                         98.20
Chapters 153 - 279                  Charter § 3
159-7 et seq.                       31.03,
                                    32.01
159-25                              31.03
159-28                              32.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                    154.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19                   153.001
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8 154.01
160A-69                             30.03
160A-70                             30.04
160A-71                             31.02
160A-72                             31.02
160A-74                             30.15
160A-75                             30.15
160A-146                            30.01
160A-171                            30.01
160A-173                            31.06
                                    10.99,
160A-175                            151.99,
                                    152.99
160A-175(b)                         151.09
160A-187                            91.01
160A-188                            91.05
                                    94.06,
160A-193                            151.01,
                                    151.31
160A-194                            152.01
160A-216                            51.52
160A-216 through 160A-237           51.52
160A-237                            51.52
160A-282(a)(b)                      31.28
160A-300.6                          71.01
160A-303                            90.03
160A-303.2                          90.03
160A-360                            151.01
160A-427                            151.09
160A-441                            151.01
160A-443                            151.06
160A-443(5)                         151.09
160A-443(6)                         151.10
160A-446(f)                         151.07
160A-446(g)                         151.06
160A-493                            91.01
Chapter 163, Arts. 23, 24           Charter § 3
163-288                             Ch. 33
163-292                             33.01
164-7                               10.14
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1993 CODE
1993 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1993 Code Section 2014 Code Section
20.01             30.01
20.02             30.02
20.03             30.03
20.04             30.04
20.15             30.15
20.16             30.16
20.17             30.17
21.01             31.02
21.02             31.06
21.03             31.04
21.04             31.03
21.05             31.01
21.06             31.07
22.01             32.01
23.02             33.01
23.03             33.02
23.04             33.03
30.01             31.20
30.02             31.21
30.03             31.22
30.04             31.23
30.05             31.24
30.06             31.25
30.07             31.26
30.08             31.27
31.10             98.02
31.11             98.02
40.01             91.99
40.02             92.02
40.03             92.03
40.04             92.04
40.15             92.15
40.16             92.16
40.17             92.17
40.18             92.18
40.19             92.19
40.20             92.20
40.21             92.21
40.22             92.22
40.23             92.23
41.01             53.01
41.02             53.02
41.03             53.03
41.04             53.04
41.05             54.05
41.06             54.06
41.07             53.07
41.08             53.08
41.09             53.09
41.10             70.01
42.01             96.01
42.02             96.02
42.03             96.03
42.04             96.04
42.05             96.05
42.06             96.06
42.07             96.07
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.25
50.05             50.26
50.06             50.27
50.07             50.28
50.08             50.04
50.09             50.05
50.10             50.29
50.11             50.06
50.12             50.07
50.13             50.08
50.14             50.09
50.15             50.10
50.16             50.11
50.17             50.12
50.18             50.40
50.19             50.41
50.20             50.42
50.21             50.43
53.10             70.01
60.01             113.01
60.02             113.02
60.03             113.03
60.04             113.04
60.05             113.05
60.06             113.06
60.07             113.07
61.01             111.01
61.02             111.02
61.03             111.03
62.01             112.01
62.02             112.02
62.03             112.25
62.04             112.26
62.05             112.27
62.06             112.03
62.07             112.04
62.08             112.05
62.09             112.28
62.10             112.06
62.11             112.07
62.12             112.08
62.13             112.29
62.14             112.09
62.15             112.10
82.01             93.01
82.03             93.02,
                  93.03
82.04             93.04
84.01             130.01
84.02             130.02
84.03             130.03
84.04             130.04
84.05             130.05
84.07             130.06
84.08             130.07
84.09             130.99
85.01             131.01
85.02             131.02
85.03             131.03
85.04             131.04
85.05             131.05
85.06             131.06
90.01             150.01
90.02             150.02
90.03             150.03
90.04             150.04
90.05             130.05
90.06             150.06
90.07             150.07
90.08             150.08
90.09             150.09
90.15             150.20
90.16             150.21
90.17             150.22
90.18             150.23
90.19             150.24
90.20             150.25
90.21             150.26
90.30             150.40
90.31             150.41
90.32             150.42
90.33             150.43
90.34             150.44
90.35             150.45
90.36             150.46
90.37             150.47
90.38             150.48
90.50             151.01
90.59             151.10
90.60             151.11
90.61             151.12
90.70             151.25
90.71             151.26
90.72             151.27
90.73             151.28
90.76             151.30
90.78             151.32
90.90             152.01
90.91             152.02
90.92             152.03
90.93             152.04
90.94             152.06
90.95             152.06
90.96             152.07
90.97             152.08
90.98             152.99
91.001            153.001
91.002            153.002
91.003            153.003
91.015            153.015
91.016            153.016
91.017            153.017
91.018            153.018
91.019            153.019
91.020            153.020
91.021            153.021
91.022            153.022
91.023            153.023
91.035            153.035
91.036            153.036
91.050            153.050
91.051            153.051
91.065            153.065
91.066            153.066
91.067            153.067
91.068            153.068
91.069            153.069
91.070            153.070
91.071            153.071
91.072            153.072
91.073            153.073
91.074            153.075
91.075            153.075
91.076            153.076
91.077            153.077
91.078            153.078
91.079            153.079
91.090            153.095
91.091            153.096
91.093            153.098
91.094            153.099
91.999            153.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
-        1-3-1972    33.01
                     112.01 -
                     112.10,
-        7-7-1975    112.25 -
                     112.29,
                     112.99
-        9-18-1978   30.16
                     51.01 -
                     51.04,
                     51.15 -
-        3-29-2001   51.30,
                     51.45,
                     51.48,
                     51.49 -
                     51.53
-        4-30-2001   153.002,
                     153.037
-        6-6-2005    31.28
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         50.05
-        - -         50.28
-        - -         50.40
-        - -         52.04
-        - -         97.01 -
                     97.05
-        - -         98.15 -
                     98.20
-        - -         92.03
-        - -         113.01
-        - -         113.02
-        - -         113.04
-        - -         113.07
-        - -         130.01
-        - -        113.05
-        8-4-1950    92.04
-        6-6-1955    130.06
-        8-15-1962   92.04
1.1      11-10-1970  70.11
-        1-3-1972    50.25
-        1-3-1972    92.02
-        5-6-1974    Ch. 72, Sch. I
-        6-3-1974    Ch. 72, Sch. I
-        8-5-1974    70.13
-        12-6-1976   130.05
-        5-1-1978    Ch. 72, Sch. I
-        7-1-1978    Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     70.27 -
-        9-4-1978    70.30,
                     70.99
-        9-21-1978   Ch. 72, Sch. I
-        2-4-1980    130.01
-        10-6-1980   131.01
-        10-6-1980   131.02 -
                     131.06
                     153.022,
                     153.023,
                     153.035,
                     153.050,
                     153.051,
                     153.071,
-        4-6-1981    153.001,
                     153.036,
                     153.065 -
                     153.080,
                     153.095 -
                     153.099,
                     153.999
-        5-1-1989    98.01
-        9-5-1989    153.097
                     95.01,
                     95.02,
                     95.99,
                     151.10,
-        11-13-1990  151.12,
                     151.25 -
                     151.28,
                     151.30,
                     151.32
-        1-7-1991    96.07
-        9-8-1992    96.07
                     91.01 -
                     91.12,
                     91.25 -
                     91.30,
-        7-25-2000   91.45 -
                     91.52,
                     91.65 -
                     91.69,
                     91.99
-        6-4-2001    54.03 -
                     54.06
-        8-6-2001    53.05
-        11-5-2001   54.99
42.01    6-1-2003    96.08
-        6-2-2003    90.01 -
                     90.13
-        6-2-2003    90.14,
                     90.15
-        7-1-2003    96.08
                     150.48,
                     151.01,
                     151.04 -
                     151.06,
-        6-29-2004   151.08,
                     151.09,
                     151.29,
                     151.31,
                     151.99
                     94.01 -
                     94.07,
-        10-3-2005   95.01,
                     95.02,
                     95.99
                     154.13,
                     154.02 -
                     154.11,
                     154.14,
-        11-7-2005   154.15,
                     154.25 -
                     154.30,
                     154.40 -
                     154.45,
                     154.99
-        2-6-2006    153.002
                     153.021,
-        2-6-2006    155.02 -
                     155.08
-        10-2-2006   52.02
-        8-4-2008    Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     52.01 -
                     52.02,
-        11-3-2008   71.01 -
                     71.05,
                     71.99
                     71.01 -
-        5-20-2009   71.05,
                     71.99
-        6-23-2009   32.15
                     52.03,
-        7-1-2010    52.15 -
                     52.18
-        2-7-2011    130.01,
                     130.99
-        7-1-2011    32.17
-        6-4-2012    54.01,
                     54.02
                     50.40,
-        7-1-2012    51.54,
                     52.04,
                     53.11
                     153.002,
-        12-3-2012   153.021,
                     153.038,
                     153.039
-        2-4-2013    70.12
13-103   7-9-2013    96.07
                     110.01 -
13-104   10-7-2013   110.07,
                     110.20 -
                     110.29
13-106   11-4-2013   50.42,
                     50.43
14-108   3-3-2014    30.15
14-110   3-10-2014   156.01 -
                     156.04
                     31.01 -
                     31.07,
14-112   3-10-2014   31.21,
                     31.23,
                     31.24
14-113   3-3-2014    32.15
14-114   3-10-2014   51.55
                    
 
