TOWN OF PINEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-04, passed 11-14-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 Legislative Service, Pamphlet #6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PINEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
TOWN OFFICIALS
 
Mayor          David Phillips
Mayor Pro Tem  Ed Samaha
Councilmembers Chris McDonough
              Amelia Stinson-Wesley
              Danielle Moore
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-01
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF
PINEVILLE, NC, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, RE- CODIFYING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN OF PINEVILLE, NC, DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES NECESSARY IN PRESERVING THE HEALTH, SAFETY AND
WELFARE OF ITS CITIZENS.
WHEREAS, the general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Pineville, NC,
were outdated, incomplete and insufficient in form and substance to properly
conduct its affairs in preserving public peace, safety, health and the general
welfare of its citizens; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower and
authorize municipalities to revise, amend, restate and re-codify existing
ordinances and include any new ordinances not previously adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Pineville Town Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and re- codification of the ordinances of the Town of Pineville, NC of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, this ordinance shall become effective immediately since it is
necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the municipality and for
the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality.
NOW, THEREFOR, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PINEVILLE TOWN COUNCIL THAT:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Pineville, NC, as revised,
amended, restated, re- codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted
as and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Pineville, NC.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   PINEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   CHARTER
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
               10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
               30.   Mayor and Council
               31.   Officers and Employees
               32.   Town Organizations
               33.   Emergency Management
               34.   Finances
               35.   Taxes
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               50.   General Provisions
               51.   Solid Waste
               52.   Utilities
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
               70.   General Regulations
               71.   Rules of Operation
               72.   Stopping, Standing and Parking
               73.   Recreational and Utility Vehicles
               74.   Pedestrians
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
               90.   Animals
               91.   Nuisances; Sanitation and Environment
               92.   Fire Prevention and Protection
               93.   Parks and Recreation
               94.   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Places
               95.   Advertising
               96.   Alarm Systems
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
               110.   Business Regulations and Licensing
               111.   Peddlers and Hawkers
               112.   Yard, Garage and Attic Sales
               113.   Cable Communications
               114.   Escort and Dating Services
               115.   Amusements and Entertainments
               116.   Alcoholic Beverages
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
               130.   General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
               150.   Buildings and Building Regulations
               151.   Housing Regulations
               152.   Floodplain Regulations
               153.   Zoning and Subdivision Regulations
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
               I.   Annexations
               II.   Franchises
               III.   Agreements and Contracts
               IV.   Historic Landmarks
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to North Carolina General Statutes
   References to 1995 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Pineville Town Council, hereby authorizing and ordering the
clerk to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect immediately.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Pineville, NC, Town Council on this 12th day of
April, 2011.
SEAL:                   /s/
                     George C. Fowler, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/
Barbara Monticello, Town Clerk
CHARTER
Chapter I: Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   §
1-1   Incorporation and corporate powers
Chapter II: Corporate Boundaries
   
Article 1. Town Boundaries
Chapter III: Governing Body
   §
3-1   Structure of governing body; number of members
   §
3-2   Manner of election of Board
   §
3-3   Term of office of members of the Board
   §
3-4   Election of Mayor; term of office
Chapter IV: Elections
   §
4-1   Conduct of town elections
Chapter V: Administration
   §
5-1   Town to operate under Council-Manager form of government
Chapter VI: Miscellaneous Provisions
   §
6-1   Ratification
   §
6-2   Continuance of contracts
   §
6-3   Repealer
CHAPTER I
Incorporation and Corporate Powers
§ 1-1. Incorporation and corporate powers.
   The inhabitants of the Town of Pineville are a body corporate and politic
under the name of the "Town of Pineville." Under that name they have all the
powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities conferred and imposed on
cities by the general law of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
CHAPTER II
Corporate Boundaries
Article 1. Town Boundaries.
   The boundaries of the Town of Pineville are set out on a map entitled
"Boundary Map of the Town of Pineville, North Carolina." The map is maintained
in the office of the town clerk, as required by G.S. 160A-22.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
CHAPTER III
Governing Body
§ 3-1. Structure of governing body; number of members.
   The governing body of the Town of Pineville is the Town Council, which has
four members and the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
§ 3-2. Manner of election of Board.
   The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the members of the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
§ 3-3. Term of office of members of the Board.
   Members of the Board shall be elected for four-year terms on a staggered
basis.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-10-2015)
§ 3-4. Election of Mayor; term of office.
   The qualified voters of the entire town elect the Mayor. He is elected to a
two-year term of office.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
CHAPTER IV
Elections
§ 4-1. Conduct of town elections.
   Town officers shall be elected on a non-partisan basis and the results
determined by plurality, as provided by G.S. 163-292.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
CHAPTER V
Administration
§ 5-1. Town to operate under Council-Manager form of government.
   The Town of Pineville operates under the Council-Manager form of government
as provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2014-03, passed 10-14-2014)
CHAPTER VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 6-1. Ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after ratification,
provided that the Mayor and town council members in office at the time this
Charter takes effect shall continue until their successors are elected and
qualified.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
§ 6-2. Continuance of contracts.
   All contracts entered into by the town, or for its benefit, prior to the
taking effect of this Charter, shall continue in full force and effect. Public
improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws or Charter
provisions existing at the time this Charter takes effect may be carried to
completion in accordance with the provision of such existing laws and Charter
provisions.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
§ 6-3. Repealer.
   Chapter 296 of the Sessions Laws of 1965, and all other laws and clauses of
laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 4-13-1999)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Filing of ordinances
   
10.20   Altering code
   
10.21   Liability of corporate officers, agents and employees for violation of
code
   
10.22   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Pineville shall be
designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Pineville, North Carolina" and
may be so cited.
(1995 Code, § 1-1)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Pineville, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Pineville, North Carolina. The terms shall be construed as if followed by the
words "of the Town of Pineville, North Carolina."
      COUNTY. The County of Mecklenburg, North Carolina.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision of this Code requires or
authorizes an officer or employee of the city to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate,
delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the terms
of the provision shall specifically designate or provide otherwise.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
(1995 Code, § 1-2)
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise. These terms shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the Town of Pineville, North Carolina."
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Pineville, in the County of Mecklenburg, North
Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   Exclude the day of the event that triggers the period;
   (B)   Count every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays; and
   (C)   Include the last day of the period, but if the last day is a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the period continues to run until the end of the next
day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 10-14-2021)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Pineville, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows: [. . . .]" The new provisions shall then be set out in full as
desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Pineville, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows: [.
. . .]" The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
"(1995 Code, §       )." The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance passed by the Mayor and Council shall be immediately filed
in a book provided for this purpose by the Council which shall be known as the
"Official Copy of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Pineville," under the
proper chapter and article, according to context, and shall be placed and
assigned the proper section number.
(1995 Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.20 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code or to insert or delete pages, or
any portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with the code in any manner
whatsoever except pursuant to ordinance or resolution or other official act of
the Mayor and Council which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
(1995 Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.21 LIABILITY OF CORPORATE OFFICERS, AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES FOR VIOLATION OF
CODE.
   Upon a violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
town by a corporation, the officer, agent or employee thereof who performs the
act constituting the violation or procures, aids or abets the performance of
the act shall be subject to the same penalties as if he himself or she herself
had committed the violation.
(1995 Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.22 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared on an annual basis and available to the public within 90 days after
the end of the town's fiscal year. A supplement to the code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the Town
Council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages that
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through
the date of adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive
changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement,
insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For
example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this subchapter," "this division" and the like, as the case
may be, or to "sections _______ to _______" (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1995 Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $50 per day per violation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 10-8-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
         
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
         
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
34.   FINANCES
         
35.   TAXES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Town government generally
   
30.02   Elections
Mayor
   
30.15   Mayor; duties
   
30.16   Mayor pro tempore; duties
Council
   
30.30   Duties
   
30.31   Procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TOWN GOVERNMENT GENERALLY.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and Council of four
members. The governing body shall be charged with the general government and
administration of the affairs of the town.
(1995 Code, § 2-26)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of governing body, see G.S. § 160A-66
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 163-284, the County Board of Elections shall conduct all
elections within the town.
(1995 Code, § 2-2)
MAYOR
§ 30.15 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and as such
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town's business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Council and have the right to vote
only when there are equal numbers of votes in the affirmative and in the
negative;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Council;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Council;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of the
town, as he or she deems necessary;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the General Statutes, the
Charter and this code.
(1995 Code, § 2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.16 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; DUTIES.
   At its organizational meeting, the Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor pro tempore to serve at the pleasure of the Council. In case of
the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore shall act as
Mayor during the continuance of the absence or disability.
(1995 Code, § 2-30)
COUNCIL
§ 30.30 DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Council shall include:
   (A)   The adoption of ordinances and resolutions;
   (B)   The appointment of officers and employees of the town; and
   (C)   The powers and duties set out in the General Statutes of North
Carolina, the Charter and the ordinances of the town.
(1995 Code, § 2-28)
Cross-reference:
   Drafting of ordinances, see §
10.17
Statutory reference:
   General powers of Mayor and Council, see G.S. § 160A-67
§ 30.31 PROCEDURE.
   Whenever a question of procedure arises at a meeting of the Mayor and
Council, Robert's Rules of Order, Newly Revised, shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 2-29)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Personnel policies adopted
   
31.02   Appointment, service generally
Officials
   
31.15   Town Administrator; responsibilities, duties
   
31.16   Town Attorney
   
31.17   Town Clerk
Cross-reference:
   Police Chief, see §
32.41
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED.
   The town's personnel policies are not printed in this code but are on file
and available for inspection in the town offices.
(1995 Code, § 2-51)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt personnel rules and regulations, G.S. § 160A-164
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT, SERVICE GENERALLY.
   All officers and employees of the town shall be appointed by the Mayor and
Council as the Council deems necessary and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-52)
OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR; RESPONSIBILITIES, DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall be responsible for the day-to-day
functions of the town.
   (B)   The duties of the Town Administrator include the following:
      (1)   Plan, direct, organize and coordinate the activities of various
departments;
      (2)   Prepare, along with the Finance Director, the yearly budget and
oversee disbursement of funds; and
      (3)   Provide the Mayor and Council with information on the status of
projects and general state of municipal functions.
(1995 Code, § 2-61)
§ 31.16 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Attorney has the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Perform all services incident to the Department of Law;
   (B)   Attend all meetings;
   (C)   Give advice in writing, when so requested, to the Mayor and Council or
the director of any department;
   (D)   May prosecute or defend, as the case may be, all suits or cases to
which the town may be a party;
   (E)   Prepare all contracts, bonds and other instruments in writing in which
the town is concerned, and to endorse on each his or her approval of the form
and correctness thereof; and
   (F)   Perform all duties imposed by law, the Charter and town ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 2-71)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint an attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.17 TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall keep the records of the Mayor and Council and perform
any other duties as may be required by law or the Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-81)
Statutory reference:
   Town Clerk generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-171 et seq.
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
32.01   Appointment; composition
   
32.02   Duties
Board of Adjustment
   
32.15   Composition; appointment
   
32.16   Terms
   
32.17   Powers and duties
Telephone Company Board of Directors
   
32.30   Composition; appointment
Police Department
   
32.40   Composition
   
32.41   Chief of Police
   
32.42   Power and authority
   
32.43   Auxiliary Police Department
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement in towns, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 through 160A-289
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENT; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The members of the Planning Board of the town shall be appointed for
designated terms by the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall consist of five regular members, all of whom
are residents of the town.
(1995 Code, § 2-126) (Res. passed 3-9-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create a planning agency, see G.S. § 160D-301
§ 32.02 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Planning Board include the following:
   (A)   Make studies of the town and its sphere of influence;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the areas
under study;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Keep the Council and the general public informed and advised as to
these matters; and
   (F)   Perform any other related duties that the Council may direct.
(1995 Code, § 2-127)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160D-307
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 32.15 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment of the town shall consist of five regular members
appointed by the Mayor and Council. In addition, two alternate members shall be
appointed by the Council. All regular and alternate members shall be residents
of the town. Alternate members shall serve in the absence for any cause of any
regular member.
(1995 Code, § 2-111)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint Board of Adjustment, see G.S. §§ 160D-1-9(d), 160D-302,
160D-403(b), 160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-702, 160D-705, and 160D-1405
§ 32.16 TERMS.
   The initial appointment of the regular members of the Board of Adjustment
shall be as follows: Three members appointed by the Council for a term of three
years and two members appointed by the Council for a term of two years. Each
alternate member shall be appointed for an initial two-year term. Thereafter,
all members and alternate members shall be appointed by the Council for terms
of three years each.
(1995 Code, § 2-112)
§ 32.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers and duties as authorized
by G.S. §§ 160D-1-9(d), 160D-302, 160D-403(b), 160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-702,
160D-705, and 160D-1405 and as otherwise provided for in this section.
Generally, these powers and duties are the following:
   (A)   Hear and decide all appeals from decisions made by the Zoning
Administrator;
   (B)   Hear and decide appeals from the Zoning Administrator which require
interpretation of the zoning ordinance;
   (C)   Hear and grant variances from provisions of the zoning ordinance; and
   (D)   Hear and grant appeals to replace one nonconforming use with another
or replace a nonconforming use which has been destroyed.
(1995 Code, § 2-113) (Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
TELEPHONE COMPANY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
§ 32.30 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The telephone company shall be known as the Pineville Telephone
Company. The governing body of the Pineville Telephone Company shall be
composed of the Board of Directors consisting of not more than nine voting and
two non-voting members. The Mayor and members of the Town Council shall make up
five members of the Board. The other members shall be appointed by the
governing body of the town and shall serve for a term of two years and may be
reappointed or replaced as so desired by the governing body of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Directors of the Pineville Telephone Company shall elect
one of its members to serve as Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be an elected
official of the town. The Chairperson shall serve for a two-year term and may
be reelected. Appointments shall take place January 1, after a new Mayor and
Town Council take office the first Tuesday in December, after the municipal
election.
   (C)   The Board of Directors shall make recommendations that may concern the
Pineville Telephone Company to the Town Council.
   (D)   The Mayor and Town Council shall determine the compensation that the
Secretary and members of the Board of Directors receive.
   (E)   The Telephone Secretary of the town shall serve as the Secretary of
the Pineville Telephone Company.
(1995 Code, § 2-141) (Ord. 3, passed 12-5-1995)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 COMPOSITION.
   The personnel of the Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police
and any other officers and employees as may be authorized from time to time by
the Mayor and Council.
(1995 Code, § 30-26)
§ 32.41 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council and subject
to the general supervision of the Town Administrator. The Chief shall be
responsible for the discipline, good order and conduct of the Department, shall
keep the Council informed of the Department's activities, make such reports as
the Council may from time to time require, and shall perform any other duties
as may be required of him or her by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 30-27)
§ 32.42 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Law enforcement officers of the town shall have all powers and
authorities which are now or may hereafter be vested in them by the laws of
this state and by this code. These powers shall include but not necessarily be
limited to the enforcement of state statutes and this code provisions affecting
the peace and well-being of the town.
   (B)   By empowering other town personnel to administer and enforce certain
provisions of this code, the Mayor and Council in no way intends to limit, nor
does it limit, the power of law enforcement officers of this town to administer
and enforce code provisions by the issuance of citations or by any other lawful
means.
(1995 Code, § 30-28)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police, see G.S. § 160A-285
§ 32.43 AUXILIARY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a) and (b), a town may by ordinance
provide for the organization of an auxiliary police department made up of
volunteer members, and by enactment of an ordinance may provide that, while
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the city
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police of the city,
auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under the
North Carolina Workers' Compensation Act, being G.S. §§ 97-1 et seq. and to any
fringe benefits for which the volunteer personnel qualify.
   (B)   There is hereby established within the Town Police Department, as a
division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division
shall be a volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without
compensation, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Chief of Police and approved by the Town Administrator.
   (C)   This section shall be effective as of June 9, 2004.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Determination of existence of emergency
   
33.02   Issuance of proclamation
   
33.03   Imposition of curfew generally
   
33.04   Restricted activities enumerated
   
33.05   Lifting of curfew
Statutory reference:
   Municipal emergency management, see G.S. §§ 166A-7 et seq.
§ 33.01 DETERMINATION OF EXISTENCE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, catastrophe or for
any other reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to maintain
public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare
or property.
(1995 Code, § 20-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to enact ordinances regarding states of emergency, see
G.S. §§ 14-288.1 et seq.
§ 33.02 ISSUANCE OF PROCLAMATION.
   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the lives,
safety, health and welfare of the people within the town or threatening damage
to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to
issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of the state
of emergency, and, in order more effectively to protect the lives, safety and
property of people within the town, to define and impose a curfew applicable to
all persons within the jurisdiction of the town.
(1995 Code, § 20-2)
§ 33.03 IMPOSITION OF CURFEW GENERALLY.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application of a
curfew imposed under this chapter to any area specifically described within the
jurisdiction of the town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and any
other classes of persons that may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
(1995 Code, § 20-3)
§ 33.04 RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES ENUMERATED.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been defined and imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to curfew:
   (A)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property, unless the travel is necessary to obtain medical assistance;
   (B)   To possess off one's own premises, buy, sell, give away or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapon
of any kind;
   (C)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to
possess or consume the same off one's premises; or
   (D)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products, or any other
combustible or inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the
provisions of the curfew imposed.
(1995 Code, § 20-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.05 LIFTING OF CURFEW.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency and curfew as soon
as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 20-1)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
Administration
   
34.01   Budget Officer and Finance Director; appointment and duties
Disposal of Surplus Personal Property
   
34.15   Authority for disposal
   
34.16   Methods of sale
   
34.17   Alternatives to sale
   
34.18   Written report
   
34.19   Statutory authority
Statutory reference:
   Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, see G.S. § 159-7
ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.01 BUDGET OFFICER AND FINANCE DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, G.S.
§§ 159-7 et seq., the Council shall appoint a Budget Officer and Finance
Director who shall perform the duties imposed by law and prescribed by the
Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-166)
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 34.15 AUTHORITY FOR DISPOSAL.
   The Town Administrator is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$10,000;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(1995 Code, § 2-176) (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 34.16 METHODS OF SALE.
   The Town Administrator may dispose of any surplus personal property by any
means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 12. The
sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
(1995 Code, § 2-177) (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 34.17 ALTERNATIVES TO SALE.
   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the highest
offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if greater
value may be obtained in that manner. The Town Administrator is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Town Administrator may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the Town Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-178) (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 34.18 WRITTEN REPORT.
   The Town Administrator shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this subchapter and that record shall generally describe the
property sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and
the amount of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(1995 Code, § 2-179) (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-266(c)
§ 34.19 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266(c).
(Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1998; Ord. 2007-05, passed 8-14-2007)
CHAPTER 35: TAXES
Section
Tax on Gross Receipts, Retail Short-Term Lease or Rental of Vehicles
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Levy of tax
   
35.03   Administration
   
35.04   Collection
   
35.05   Report and payment of tax
   
35.06   Taxpayer to keep records
   
35.07   Tax Administrator to provide forms
   
35.08   Situs
   
35.09   Penalties and remedies
   
35.10   Assessment procedure
   
35.11   Appeals
   
35.12   Authority
Tax on Gross Receipts, Short-Term Lease or Rental of Heavy Equipment
   
35.30   Definitions
   
35.31   Levy of tax
   
35.32   Administration
   
35.33   Collection
   
35.34   Report and payment of tax
   
35.35   Taxpayer to keep records
   
35.36   Tax collector to provide forms
   
35.37   Situs
   
35.38   Assessment procedure
   
35.39   Penalties, interest and remedies
   
35.40   Appeals
   
35.41   Authority
   
35.42   Effective date
TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS, RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF VEHICLES
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease
or rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES (G.S.).  The North Carolina General Statutes. Any reference
to a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to
time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  The total lease or rental price charged to a customer for
the short-term lease or rental at retail of vehicles, excluding sales taxes and
excluding the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   LEASE OR RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use but not the
ownership of property to another for a period of time.
   PERSON.  Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL.  Any lease or rental of a vehicle, whether made
under a written or verbal contract or agreement, made to the same person for a
period of less than 365 continuous days.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The County Tax Administrator, as selected by the Board
of Commissioners, pursuant to G.S. § 105-349, to collect taxes on behalf of the
town.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than a commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver's license; or
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.02 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross
receipts as defined in §
35.01. This tax on gross receipts is in addition to the privilege license taxes
authorized by G.S. § 160A-211.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Tax Administrator shall administer and collect the taxes levied herein
from every person engaged in the business of short-term leasing or rental of
vehicles, and the Tax Administrator may promulgate additional rules and
regulations necessary for implementation of the taxes. In addition to the
provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes herein imposed shall be
otherwise administered in the same manner as the sales and use tax as provided
in G.S. Chapter 105, Articles 5 and 9, Subchapter I.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.04 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental
of vehicles at retail to customers shall collect at the time of the lease or
rental the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated
account, and thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Administrator in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a provision
in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that 1.5% of the
total lease or rental price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on
gross receipts. The amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease
or rental and shown separately on the taxpayer's records. The customer shall
pay the tax to the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of the town. The
taxpayer shall be liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the
Tax Administrator, and the taxpayer's failure to charge or to collect the tax
from the customer shall not affect the liability.
   (B)   The taxes collected under this subchapter are not subject to sales
tax. The taxes collected under this subchapter belong to the town and are not
subject to creditor liens against the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.05 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Taxes levied under this subchapter are due and payable when a return
is required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified,
submit a return to the Tax Administrator on the form prescribed by the Tax
Administrator. The taxpayer or the taxpayer's agent must sign the return.
Returns of taxpayers are due to the Tax Administrator each month on or before
the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues. As
provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public record
and information contained in a return may be disclosed only in accordance
therewith.
   (B)   The return may be filed by personal delivery to the Tax Administrator
or by United States mail. Returns submitted by mail shall be deemed to be filed
as of the date shown on the postmark affixed by the United States Postal
Service. If no date is shown on the postmark, or if the postmark is not affixed
by the United States Postal Service, the return shall be deemed to be filed
when received in the office of the Tax Administrator. The burden of proof shall
be on the taxpayer to show that the return was timely filed.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.06 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and any other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books and accounts herein described shall be for examination at all reasonable
hours during the day by the Tax Administrator or his or her duly authorized
agent.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.07 TAX ADMINISTRATOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Administrator shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the town forms and
instructions for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.08 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the person from whom the customer takes delivery of
the vehicle.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.09 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to
Subchapter VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax) of G.S. Chapter 105, as
contained in Article 5 and Article 9, Subchapter 1, Chapter 105 thereof, and
the remedies of levy, attachment and garnishment provided in G.S. § 160A-207
shall be applicable in like manner to the tax levied and collected under this
subchapter, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the
provisions hereof.
   (B)   Without limiting the foregoing, and subject to any changes in the
General Statutes with respect to penalties and remedies, the following
penalties and remedies shall be applicable with respect to the levy and
collection of the taxes imposed herein:
      (1)   Any taxpayer who fails to file a return on the date it is due,
determined with regard to any extension of time for filing, shall pay a penalty
equal to 5% of the amount of the tax if the failure to file is for not more
than one month, with an additional 5% for each additional month, or fraction
thereof, during which the failure continues, not exceeding 25% of the tax in
the aggregate, or $5, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Any taxpayer who fails to pay the tax levied herein when due,
without intent to evade the tax, shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the tax,
except that the penalty shall in no event be less than $5.
      (3)   Taxes shall be payable at par or face amount if paid on or before
the filing date as set forth in §
35.05. Taxes paid after the filing date will be delinquent and shall be subject
to interest charges. Interest shall accrue at the rate of 0.75% a month or
fraction thereof, until the principal amount of the taxes, the accrued interest
and any penalties are paid.
      (4)   When the bank upon which any uncertified check tendered to the Tax
Administrator in payment of taxes, penalties or interest, returns the check
because of insufficient funds or the nonexistence of an account of the drawer,
the Tax Administrator shall assess a penalty equal to 10% of the check, subject
to a minimum of $1 and a maximum of $1,000.
      (5)   Any taxpayer who willfully attempts, or any person who aids or
abets any taxpayer to attempt in any manner to evade or defeat a tax imposed
herein or its payment, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law,
be guilty of a Class H felony.
      (6)   Any taxpayer required to collect, withhold, account for, and pay
over any tax who willfully fails to collect or truthfully account for and pay
over the tax shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any taxpayer required to pay any tax, to make a return, to keep any
records, or to supply any information, who willfully fails to pay the tax, make
the return, keep the records, or supply the information, at the time or times
as required by law, or rules issued pursuant thereto, shall, in addition to
other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Class H felony, see G.S. §§ 105-236 to 105-236.1
§ 35.10 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the Tax Administrator discovers that any return or tax is due from
a taxpayer, the taxpayer shall be notified in writing of the failure to file
and of the proposed assessment, if known by the Tax Administrator. A proposed
assessment is presumed to be correct. The notice shall be delivered either in
person or by United States mail sent to the taxpayer's last known address. The
notice is presumed to have been received by the taxpayer unless the taxpayer
makes an affidavit to the contrary within 90 days after the notice was mailed.
If the taxpayer makes this affidavit, the time limitations for a request for
hearing as hereafter provided apply as if the notice had been delivered on the
date the taxpayer makes the affidavit.
   (B)   A taxpayer who objects to the proposed assessment or to the
requirement to file a return is entitled to a hearing upon written request
within 30 days after the date the notice was mailed, or within 30 days after
the date of personal delivery. If no request for a hearing is timely made, the
proposed assessment becomes final without further notice.
   (C)   If a taxpayer files a timely request for hearing, the Tax
Administrator shall set a hearing date within 90 days, and notify the taxpayer
at least ten days prior to the hearing date. Within 90 days after the hearing,
the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer of the final decision. The
taxpayer may then appeal the decision as set forth in §
35.11. The Tax Administrator shall have no authority to waive or compromise any
interest or penalty imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.11 APPEALS.
   The Town Council, exercising the powers of the Secretary of Revenue in
collecting sales and use taxes, delegates to the Town Administrator, or his or
her designee, its authority to compromise or forgive for good cause shown any
penalty or additional tax imposed herein, and to conduct any hearings and make
decisions to determine the validity of a tax imposed by the Tax Administrator.
If a taxpayer claims that a tax, additional tax, penalty or interest is
excessive, a notice of appeal must be filed by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the final notice of the Tax Administrator is mailed or personally
delivered to the taxpayer as provided in §
35.10. The final decision of the Town Administrator or his or her designee
shall be mailed or delivered to the taxpayer within 30 days after the hearing.
The taxpayer shall pay the tax, additional tax, penalty or interest without
prejudice to any defense the taxpayer has. The taxpayer may file suit for a
refund in the Superior Court of the county pursuant to the provisions of G.S. §
105-241.7.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
§ 35.12 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-215.1.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-14-2004)
TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS, SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF HEAVY EQUIPMENT
§ 35.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents heavy equipment on a short-term
lease or rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES (G.S.). The North Carolina General Statutes. Any reference
to a particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to
time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  The total lease or rental price charged to a customer for
the short-term lease or rental of heavy equipment, excluding sales taxes and
excluding the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   HEAVY EQUIPMENT. Earthmoving, construction or industrial equipment that is
mobile, weighs at least 1,500 pounds, and meets any of the descriptions listed
below in this definition. The term includes an attachment for heavy equipment,
regardless of the weight of the attachment.
      (1)   It is a self-propelled vehicle that is not designed to be driven on
a highway; or
      (2)   It is industrial lift equipment, industrial material handling
equipment, industrial electrical generation equipment or a similar piece of
industrial equipment.
   LEASE or RENTAL.  A transfer, for consideration, of the use but not the
ownership of the heavy equipment to another for a period of time.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL.  Any lease or rental, whether written or verbal,
which is made to the same person for a period of less than 365 continuous days.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The County Director of Revenue Collections.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the collection, reporting and payment of the
taxes imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.31 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 0.8% of the gross
receipts from the short-term lease or rental of heavy equipment by a person
whose principal business is the short-term lease or rental of heavy equipment
at retail; provided that the place of business from which the heavy equipment
is delivered is located in this town. A person is not considered to be in the
short-term lease or rental business if the majority of the person's lease and
rental gross receipts are derived from leases and rentals to a person who is a
related person under G.S. § 105-163.010. The tax authorized by this subchapter
applies to gross receipts that are subject to tax under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(2).
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.32 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Tax Collector, as agent for the Town Finance Officer, shall administer
and collect the taxes levied herein from every person engaged in the business
of short-term leasing or rental of heavy equipment, and the Tax Collector may
promulgate additional rules and regulations necessary for implementation of the
taxes. In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and collection of the
taxes herein imposed shall be administered in the same manner as the sales and
use tax as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Articles 5 and 9, Subchapter I. In the
event a change in the General Statutes relating to any provisions in this
subchapter is made by the state legislature, the change shall be made
applicable in this subchapter without a formal adoption thereof by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.33 COLLECTION.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
heavy equipment to customers shall collect at the time of the lease or rental
the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated account, and
thereafter remit the tax to the Tax Collector in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a provision in each short-term
lease or rental agreement stating that 0.8% of the total lease or rental price,
excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The amount of
the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or rental amount and shall be
shown separately on the taxpayer's records. The customer shall pay the tax to
the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of the town. The taxpayer shall be
liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector, and
the taxpayer's failure to charge or to collect the tax from the customer shall
not affect this liability. The taxes collected under this subchapter are not
subject to sales tax. The taxes collected under this subchapter belong to the
town and are not subject to creditor liens against the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.34 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   The taxes levied hereby are due and payable when a return is required
to be filed. The taxpayer or the taxpayer's agent must sign the return. Returns
of taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector quarterly and are due by the last day
of the month following the end of the calendar quarter. A return filed for this
purpose is not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1 and information
contained in a return may not be disclosed except as required by law.
   (B)   The return may be filed by personal delivery to the Tax Collector or
by United States mail. Returns submitted by mail shall be deemed to be filed as
of the date shown on the postmark affixed by the United States Postal Service.
If no date is shown on the postmark, or if the postmark is not affixed by the
United States Postal Service, the return shall be deemed to be filed when
received in the office of the Tax Collector (a return having a metered stamp
does not satisfy the postmark requirement unless there is also a postmark by
the United States Postal Service). The burden of proof shall be on the taxpayer
to show that the return was timely filed.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.35 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by the taxpayer in the conduct of business and any other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which the
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books and accounts herein described shall be for examination at all reasonable
hours during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.36 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the town forms and
instructions for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve the taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.37 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the place of business from which the heavy equipment is delivered.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.38 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the Tax Collector discovers that any return or tax is due from a
taxpayer, the taxpayer shall be notified in writing of the failure to file and
of the proposed assessment, if known by the Tax Collector. The assessment may
be made on the best information of the Tax Collector. A proposed assessment is
presumed to be correct. The notice shall be delivered either in person or by
United States mail sent to the taxpayer's last known address. The notice is
presumed to have been received by the taxpayer unless the taxpayer makes an
affidavit to the contrary within 90 days after the notice was mailed. If the
taxpayer makes this affidavit, the time limitations for a request for hearing
as hereafter provided apply as if the notice had been delivered on the date the
taxpayer makes the affidavit.
   (B)   A taxpayer who objects to the proposed assessment or to the
requirement to file a return is entitled to a hearing upon written request
within 30 days after the date the notice was mailed, or within 30 days after
the date of personal delivery. If no request for a hearing is timely made, the
proposed assessment becomes final without further notice.
   (C)   If a taxpayer files a timely request for hearing, the Tax Collector
shall set a hearing date within 90 days, and notify the taxpayer at least ten
days prior to the hearing date. Within 90 days after the hearing, the Tax
Collector shall notify the taxpayer of the final decision. The taxpayer may
then appeal the decision as set forth in §
35.40. The Tax Collector shall have no authority to waive or compromise any
interest or penalty imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.39 PENALTIES, INTEREST AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The provisions with respect to penalties, interest and remedies
applicable to Subchapter VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax) of G.S.
Chapter 105, as contained in Article 5 and Article 9, Subchapter I, Chapter 105
thereof, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax levied and collected
under this subchapter, to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with
the provisions hereof.
   (B)   Without limiting the foregoing, and subject to any changes in the
General Statutes with respect to penalties, interest and remedies, the
following shall be applicable with respect to the levy and collection of the
taxes imposed herein:
      (1)   Any taxpayer who fails to file a return on the date it is due,
determined with regard to any extension of time for filing, shall pay a penalty
equal to 5% of the amount of the tax if the failure to file is for not more
than one month, with an additional 5% for each additional month, or fraction
thereof, during which the failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate, or $5, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Any taxpayer who fails to pay the tax levied herein when due,
without intent to evade the tax, shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of the tax,
except that the penalty shall in no event be less than $5.
      (3)   Taxes shall be payable at par or face amount if paid on or before
the filing date as set forth in §
35.34. Taxes paid after the filing date will be delinquent and shall be subject
to interest charges. Interest shall accrue at the rate of 0.75% a month or
fraction thereof until the principal amount of the taxes, the accrued interest
and any penalties are paid.
      (4)   When the bank upon which any uncertified check tendered to the Tax
Collector in payment of taxes, penalties or interest returns the check because
of insufficient funds or the nonexistence of an account of the drawer, the Tax
Collector shall assess a penalty equal to 10% of the check, subject to a
minimum of $1 and a maximum of $1,000.
      (5)   Any taxpayer who willfully attempts, or any person who aids or
abets any taxpayer to attempt in any manner to evade or defeat a tax imposed
herein or its payment, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law,
be guilty of a Class H felony.
      (6)   Any taxpayer required to collect, withhold, account for and pay
over any tax, who willfully fails to collect or truthfully account for and pay
over the tax, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any taxpayer required to pay any tax, to make a return, to keep any
records or to supply any information, who willfully fails to pay the tax, make
the return, keep the records or supply the information, at the time or times as
required by law, or rules issued pursuant thereto, shall, in addition to other
penalties provided by law, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
      (8)   The Tax Collector shall have the remedies set forth in G.S. § 105-
242 or § 105-368 in enforcing the collection of taxes imposed herein, and any
other remedies authorized by law.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.40 APPEALS.
   The Town Council, exercising the powers of the Secretary of Revenue in
collecting sales and use taxes, designates the County Manager, or his or her
designee, to act as deputy for the purpose of compromising or forgiving for
good cause shown any penalty or additional tax imposed herein, and for
conducting any hearings and making decisions to determine the validity of a tax
imposed by the Tax Collector. If a taxpayer claims that a tax, additional tax,
penalty or interest is excessive, a notice of appeal must be filed by the
taxpayer within 30 days after the final notice of the Tax Collector is mailed
or personally delivered to the taxpayer as provided in §
35.38. The final decision of the deputy shall be made and mailed or delivered
to the taxpayer within 30 days after the hearing. The taxpayer shall pay the
tax, additional tax, penalty or interest without prejudice to any defense the
taxpayer has. The taxpayer may file suit for a refund in the Superior Court of
the county pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 105-241.7.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.41 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-215.2.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 35.42 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The taxes hereby levied and imposed by this subchapter shall become
effective on July 1, 2009.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-14-2009)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   SOLID WASTE
         
52.   UTILITIES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   County Surface Water Pollution Control Ordinance; adopted
§ 50.01 COUNTY SURFACE WATER POLLUTION CONTROL ORDINANCE; ADOPTED.
   The Town Council by resolution extends the jurisdiction of the Mecklenburg
County Surface Water Pollution Control Ordinance to become applicable within
the town's corporate limits.
(Res. passed 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Collection generally
   
51.02   Duty of business owners, occupants
   
51.03   Maintenance of property
   
51.04   Enforcement
   
51.05   Damaging, displacing, and interfering with containers prohibited
   
51.06   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
51.07   Placement and collection of yard waste in quantities too great to be
placed in a container
   
51.08   Containers required; specifications
   
51.09   Placement of receptacles
   
51.10   Location of containers for collection
   
51.11   Storm drain obstruction
   
51.12   Littering
   
51.13   Illegal dumping
   
51.14   Outside trash
   
51.15   Method and requirement for service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory references:
   Fees for solid waste disposal, see G.S. § 160A-314.1
   Regulation of garbage, trash and refuse, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 51.01 COLLECTION GENERALLY.
   Collection of solid waste shall be in accordance with the current contract
which the town has negotiated and is available and on file in the Town Clerk's
office for inspection.
(1995 Code, § 36-1)
§ 51.02 DUTY OF BUSINESS OWNERS, OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Generally. The owner or occupant of any store or other place of
business situated within the town shall at all times keep his or her premises
clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers
and other used or waste materials thrown or left on the premises by his, her or
its customers, and take reasonable measures to prevent the same from drifting
or blowing to adjoining premises.
   (B)   Receptacles. Receptacles of sufficient size and number shall be placed
on the premises accessible to the customers of the business where the above
referred-to articles of waste may be disposed of.
(1995 Code, § 36-2)
§ 51.03 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All contractors, subcontractors, utility companies or other
individuals who are in the course of building, remodeling, repairing,
maintaining or demolishing any structure, public roadway, easement or equipment
shall be responsible for the disposal of their building material scraps,
garbage, refuse, solid waste and tree trimmings.
   (B)   If the provisions of this section are not complied with, the Town
Manager or his/her designee shall serve written notice upon the violator to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   If the violator fails, neglects or refuses to dispose of the offending
materials, the Town Manager or his/her designee shall cause the materials to be
disposed of and bill the violator for the actual cost of removal, plus 5% for
additional costs in connection therewith.
(1995 Code, § 36-3) (Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any remedies provided by general law to the town to
enforce this chapter, a violation of any section under this chapter shall be
punishable in accordance with § 51.15.
   (B)   The Town Manager will have the discretion to refuse service to
individuals or properties who repeatedly violate this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.05 DAMAGING, DISPLACING, AND INTERFERING WITH CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents except the owner or upon
permission or at the request of the owner.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.06 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit the garbage or refuse in approved
containers as required in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.07 PLACEMENT AND COLLECTION OF YARD WASTE IN QUANTITIES TOO GREAT TO BE
PLACED IN A CONTAINER.
   (A)   Those materials in quantities too great to be placed in containers
shall be placed in piles by the occupant for collection at the front of the
premises in the grass strip between the street and the sidewalk, where such
strip is available, or they shall be placed off that portion of the street
right-of-way normally used by vehicles.
   (B)   Tree limbs and cuttings of shrubbery of more than four cubic yards or
one pickup load must be removed by the property owner or occupant. Tree limbs
and shrubs shall not be longer than four feet in length nor more than six
inches in diameter. Leaves and grass clippings should be piled separate from
limbs and other larger materials. Such materials listed in this section shall
be collected and removed by the town or its contractor only where an individual
person in the town is doing improvement work without employing an independent
builder, contractor or laborer to properties located in the town.
   (C)   When piles of tree limbs or shrubbery in excess of one pickup load or
in excess of the allowable length and diameter are not removed by the property
owner or occupant, removal may be accomplished by the town as specified in §
51.03(C).
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.08 CONTAINERS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every residential unit, unless specified otherwise in this chapter,
shall be provided a rollout cart. Such rollout cart is not to be removed from
the premises to which it is assigned. All rollout carts shall be subject to the
approval of the Director of Public Works or his/her designee.
   (B)   Every person shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner
by placing it in bags before putting it in the rollout container. Offal and
fecal material must also be placed in a plastic bag before being placed in the
rollout cart.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the householder or commercial
establishment to maintain proper care of the rollout cart. If the rollout cart
is stolen or damaged from improper use or neglect, it shall be the
responsibility of the householder or commercial establishment to replace the
cart. If the cart is damaged by collection workers, the collector will repair
or replace the cart. The collector shall have the authority to discontinue
service when a cart becomes unserviceable and advise the householder or
commercial establishment of such discontinuance.
   (D)   The following types of material may cause damage to the rollout cart
and shall not be deposited in the container: large motor parts, batteries,
concrete blocks, tree stumps, ashes, charcoal, paints, solvents or other
flammable materials.
   (E)   No person shall interfere or otherwise deter the normal refuse
collection process by tampering with refuse containers or their contents unless
by permission of the Sanitation Superintendent or his/her representative, nor
shall any person place any hazardous refuse in any collection receptacle.
   (F)   The town will provide one recycling container per customer.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.09 PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Receptacles are not permitted to be stored in the front yard; the
front yard is defined as the area measured from the primary building façade
and/or formal front door extended both outward to the side property boundaries
and forward to a street right-of-way.
   (B)   Receptacles shall not be placed on any alleyway, sidewalk, street or
similar so as to be a hazard, block visibility, or accessibility of pedestrians
or motorists.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.10 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   All refuse shall be placed at curbside for collection. Curbside refers
to that portion of right-of-way adjacent to paved or traveled town roadways
(including alleys). Containers shall be placed as close to the roadway as
practicable without interfering with or endangering the movement of vehicles or
pedestrians. When construction work is being performed in the right-of-way,
containers shall be placed as close as practicable to an access point for the
collection vehicle. The contractor may decline to collect any container not so
placed.
   (B)   Rollout carts should not be placed at the curb before 5:00 p.m. the
day before the scheduled pick-up date, and must be removed from the curb by 11:
59 p.m. on the day after the scheduled pick-up date.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.11 STORM DRAIN OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any refuse, trash, refuse
receptacles or containers on, upon or over any storm drain or so close to a
storm drain as to be drawn by the elements into the storm drain.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.12 LITTERING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter, cast, throw, place,
sweep or deposit anywhere within the town any litter in such a manner that it
may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley,
body of water, sewer, parkway, lot, public property or private property. Any
unauthorized accumulation of litter is declared to be a public nuisance and is
prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a responsible person to operate a vehicle
transporting loose materials within the town without a suitable cover.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.13 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose or discard any litter on private property
owned by someone else without their permission or on public property without
specific approval from the town.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.14 OUTSIDE TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or similar to bring
trash, refuse, rubbish, or other forms of waste generated outside of the town
into the town for collection by the town.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.15 METHOD AND REQUIREMENT FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his/her designee shall be authorized to institute
trash policies, guidelines, methods, and similar regulation(s) with respect to
refuse collection such as agreed upon with any trash provider and/or trash
collection agreement.
   (B)   Trash collection shall adhere to adopted trash policy as set by the
Town Manager.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter or any trash policy shall be given written
notice of five days to correct violations of the above sections. Any person or
property that neglects or refuses to remedy the condition after the five day
notice shall be fined $50; after ten days following the original notice of
violation, if the violation has not been corrected, there shall be a fine of
$100 for every violation thereafter per calendar year. The town may also take
any necessary action to remedy the violation such as confiscating trash
receptacles.
   (B)   If the fine is not paid within 30 days of the original fine, the
penalty may be collected in a civil action in the nature of debt, including a
lien placed on the property, collected as unpaid taxes in accordance with the
North Carolina Debt Setoff program, NCOS or similar as permitted by state law.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-9-2019)
CHAPTER 52: UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Scope of chapter provisions
   
52.02   Liability of town for damage
   
52.03   Town's right to temporarily interrupt service
   
52.04   Source of water, sewer service
   
52.05   Use of fire hydrants restricted; filling of swimming pools
   
52.06   Protection of water pipes
   
52.07   Sale or resale of utility services restricted
   
52.08   Application for service
   
52.09   Connections to service
   
52.10   Ownership of connections, meters and the like
   
52.11   Service to comply with technical regulations
   
52.12   Termination for noncompliance with provisions
   
52.13   Meters required
   
52.14   Obtaining right-of-way for facilities
Rates and Charges
   
52.30   Deposits required
   
52.31   Refund of deposit
   
52.32   Disconnection for late payment
   
52.33   Resumption of service, reconnection fee
   
52.34   Cogeneration policy
Statutory reference:
   Authority to fix and enforce rates, see G.S. § 160A-314
   Municipal authority to operate public enterprises, see G.S. § 160A-312
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter are hereby made a part of the terms
and conditions whereby the town furnishes any utility service to any person, or
performs any work of any kind in connection with the furnishing of any utility
service.
(1995 Code, § 42-1)
§ 52.02 LIABILITY OF TOWN FOR DAMAGE.
   The town shall not be liable for any damage to the property of any consumer
of any utility service furnished by the town except when the damage is due to
the negligence of the town.
(1995 Code, § 42-2)
§ 52.03 TOWN'S RIGHT TO TEMPORARILY INTERRUPT SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to cut off any utility service without notice in
case of emergencies. When an interruption in service is necessary for
maintenance and improvement to the utility system, affected customers will be
notified as circumstances permit.
(1995 Code, § 42-3)
§ 52.04 SOURCE OF WATER, SEWER SERVICE.
   The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utility Department is responsible for furnishing
water and sewer services in accordance with Department policies to the town.
(1995 Code, § 42-4)
§ 52.05 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS RESTRICTED; FILLING OF SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants shall be provided for the sole purpose of use to
extinguish fires and shall be used and opened only by the Charlotte-Mecklenburg
Utility Department and Pineville-Morrow Fire Department and Rescue, Inc., or
such persons as may be given authority by the Town Administrator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry away water from fire
hydrants without written permission from the Town Administrator, or to place
upon or about any fire hydrant, gate valve, curb cock, meter or meter box, any
object, material, debris or structure of any kind so as to prevent immediate
access to same.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to draw water for the purpose of
filling a swimming pool without the prior permission of the Charlotte-
Mecklenburg Utility Department.
(1995 Code, § 42-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 PROTECTION OF WATER PIPES.
   Consumers of water furnished by Charlotte-Mecklenburg Utility Department
shall keep their service pipe and all fixtures connected therewith in good
repair and protected from frost at their own expense, and shall prevent all
unnecessary waste of water.
(1995 Code, § 42-6)
§ 52.07 SALE OR RESALE OF UTILITY SERVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person within the town shall be permitted to furnish, sell or offer for
sale to any other person within the town water from any privately owned wells,
springs, lakes, rivers, creeks or reservoirs, or any other utility service
furnished by the town.
(1995 Code, § 42-7)
§ 52.08 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Application shall be made to the town for any utility service that may be
furnished by the town and may be required in writing. The application shall
state the name and address of the applicant, the type of utility service
desired, the purposes for which the application is made and any other
information as the town may request.
(1995 Code, § 42-8)
§ 52.09 CONNECTIONS TO SERVICE.
   Connections for any utility service furnished by the town shall be made only
by the town under the supervision of the superintendent of the particular
department.
(1995 Code, § 42-9)
§ 52.10 OWNERSHIP OF CONNECTIONS, METERS AND THE LIKE.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished and used by the
town in installing any utility service shall be and remain the property of the
town.
(1995 Code, § 42-10)
§ 52.11 SERVICE TO COMPLY WITH TECHNICAL REGULATIONS.
   Any utility service furnished under the provisions of this chapter at any of
the rates set forth herein shall be in accordance with and compliance with all
applicable technical provisions of this code, state law and town ordinances,
rules and regulations.
(1995 Code, § 42-11)
§ 52.12 TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   The town shall have the right to disconnect or refuse to connect or
reconnect any utility service which does not meet the applicable provisions of
this code, state law or town ordinances, rules and regulations.
(1995 Code, § 42-12)
§ 52.13 METERS REQUIRED.
   Meters shall be required on all utility connections to measure the
consumption of the utility service used by the consumer.
(1995 Code, § 42-13)
§ 52.14 OBTAINING RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR FACILITIES.
   When any utility service is requested which requires the placing of the
town's facilities on or across private property other than that of the
applicant, the person requesting the service shall obtain or cause to be
obtained at no cost to the town all rights-of-way necessary for the town's
facilities.
(1995 Code, § 42-14)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.30 DEPOSITS REQUIRED.
   Along with the application for utility services, the applicant therefor is
required to pay to the town a deposit for services. The schedule of required
deposits is not printed herein but is on file and available in the town
offices.
(1995 Code, § 42-36)
§ 52.31 REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Refunds of deposits made for utility services shall be made upon the
termination of the utility services only after payment of all indebtedness to
the town for the utility services. Application of deposit may be made in
partial or total settlement of accounts when supply is cut off for nonpayment
of bill and service is not restored, or for any infraction or violation of any
ordinance, rule or regulation of the town relative to utility services offered
by the town.
   (B)   Deposits are retained for 12 months for telephone service and refunded
at that time if payment has been satisfactory. Deposits for electric service
are retained until termination of service and are applied to the final bill.
Any overages are refunded back to the customer.
   (C)   Interest of 8% is paid on telephone deposits for ILEC customers only
at the time of refund. There is no interest paid on electric deposits.
(1995 Code, § 42-37)
§ 52.32 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid one week prior to its due date, a
reminder notice will be mailed. If the bill is not paid by the date specified
on the notice, service will be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the
hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time
specified.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a reconnect fee, not
printed herein, but is on file and is available in the town offices.
(1995 Code, § 42-38)
§ 52.33 RESUMPTION OF SERVICE, RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Any customer of the utility services furnished by the town whose
electric services have been disconnected or terminated for the nonpayment of
the rates and charges therefor may have the utility services resumed by paying
all rates and charges due by him or her to the town and in addition thereto a
reconnection fee of $50 for residents. A $5 reconnect fee for telephone service
applies to both residential and business customers. Also, if the customer has
already been refunded his or her deposit, the customer will have to reestablish
credit once again with the town by putting up another deposit per utility.
   (B)   Any businesses whose electric service is disconnected due to
nonpayment and which have been refunded their deposits, will be required to pay
their present electric bill plus an average of their past two months electric
bills for deposit. Also there is a $200 reconnect fee required. All of these
amounts will have to be paid in full before service is restored.
(1995 Code, § 42-39)
§ 52.34 COGENERATION POLICY.
   There is hereby adopted a policy for the development of cogeneration and
small power production pursuant to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Order No. 69. A waiver is requested from this law.
(1995 Code, § 42-40)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
         
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
         
73.   RECREATIONAL AND UTILITY VEHICLES
         
74.   PEDESTRIANS
         
75.   TOWING AND BOOTING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations; Applicability
   
70.001   Thoroughfare Plan
   
70.002   Compliance with chapter
   
70.003   Obedience to police
   
70.004   Duty and authority of police officers
   
70.005   Application of chapter to drivers of government vehicles
   
70.006   Application of chapter to persons propelling pushcarts or riding
animals
   
70.007   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.008   Rights of owner of property used for vehicular travel
   
70.009   Traffic Engineer
   
70.010   Definitions
Prohibited Actions
   
70.025   Use of coaster, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
70.026   Unlawful riding
   
70.027   Entering, riding vehicles without permission
   
70.028   Not more than three persons permitted in front seat
   
70.029   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
70.030   Placing glass and the like in streets
   
70.031   Clinging to moving vehicles
Required Equipment
   
70.045   Mufflers
   
70.046   Riding motorcycles generally
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.060   Designation of traffic zones, through streets and the like; erection
and installation of devices
   
70.061   Obedience to devices
   
70.062   Necessity of signs
   
70.063   Moving or damaging devices
   
70.064   Ratification of existing devices
   
70.065   Traffic control signal legend
   
70.066   Flashing red and yellow signals
   
70.067   Stop intersections
   
70.068   Yield intersections
   
70.069   Driving on one-way streets
   
70.070   Limitations on turning around
   
70.071   Truck routes
   
70.072   Driving through safety zone
   
70.073   Driving in school zones
Traffic Control Photographic Systems
   
70.085   Definitions
   
70.086   Administration; citations
   
70.087   Offense
   
70.088   Appeals
Railroads
   
70.100   Obedience to warning device
 
   
70.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Chapter 20
   Municipal traffic control generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-300 et seq.
   Power of local authorities, see G.S. § 20-169
   Vehicle control signs and signals, see G.S. §§ 20-158, 20-158.1
GENERAL REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY
§ 70.001 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
   The Thoroughfare Plan as shown on the most current map entitled "Charlotte-
Mecklenburg Urban Area Thoroughfare Plan," and prepared by the City of
Charlotte, County of Mecklenburg and the planning and research branch, State
Department of Transportation, is approved and adopted as a guide in the
development of the street and highway system in the Charlotte urbanized area
and the same is hereby recommended by the State Board of Transportation for its
subsequent adoption.
(1995 Code, § 40-1)
§ 70.002 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 40-3) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.003 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction given by a police officer in the performance of his or her duties of
the exercise of powers prescribed by this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 40-4) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.004 DUTY AND AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The town police officers shall at all times have the duty of enforcing the
traffic ordinances of the town and the traffic laws of the state, and to direct
all traffic in conformance with the ordinances and laws, and shall have the
power and duty, upon a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
ensure safety, to direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding any
provisions of the state law or the ordinances of the town.
(1995 Code, § 40-5)
§ 70.005 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, this state,
county or town. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
state law.
(1995 Code, § 40-6) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.006 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING
ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart, or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(1995 Code, § 40-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-171
§ 70.007 EXEMPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except that
a driver when operating the vehicle in any emergency, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the
safety of others.
(1995 Code, § 40-8)
§ 70.008 RIGHTS OF OWNER OF PROPERTY USED FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the owner of real
property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or vehicular
parking, by permission of the owner and not as a matter of right, from
prohibiting the use nor from requiring other or different or additional
conditions than those specified in this chapter or otherwise regulating the use
as may seem best to the owner.
(1995 Code, § 40-17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-170
§ 70.009 TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Engineer to make surveys of the traffic
conditions, needs and problems of the town, to make recommendations to the Town
Administrator, and to do and perform any and all other acts which may tend to
promote traffic safety.
(1995 Code, § 40-18)
§ 70.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is occupied by buildings
which are in use for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections;
any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways
which join one another at an angle, whether or not one highway crosses the
other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the Mayor
and Council, or an official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL.  Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Town Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violations of traffic
regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE.  Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property, other than streetcars, with cars
operated on stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other locomotive, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district, when the frontage on the highway, for a distance of 300 feet
or more, is mainly occupied by residential dwellings but also by dwellings or
buildings which are in use for business purposes.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street which has been improved and designed for,
or which is ordinarily used for, vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, which area is either protected or plainly marked
at all times while so set apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curblines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines exclusively intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   STANDING.  Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING.  When prohibited, any stopping of a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC SIGNS. Authorized signs or markers which are assumed to be
permanently or temporarily placed, erected or installed at certain places and
which purport to give notice of direction or to convey a prohibition or
warning; the presence of the signs, though not compulsory, is generally
dictated by necessity or common sense, with a view to furtherance of public
safety.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, that for the
purpose of this chapter, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a
VEHICLE. 
(1995 Code, § 40-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definitions, see G.S. § 20-4.01
PROHIBITED ACTIONS
§ 70.025 USE OF COASTER, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, unless it be while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection.
(1995 Code, § 40-9) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.026 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle, or any
portion thereof, not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This
provision shall not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for
merchandise.
   (B)   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to
protrude beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except
to give such signals as are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any
vehicle whatsoever.
(1995 Code, § 40-10) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.027 ENTERING, RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride on any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(1995 Code, § 40-11)
§ 70.028 NOT MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including driver, to ride in the
front or driver's seat of a motor vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-12) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.029 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board, or alight from, any public conveyance or other
vehicle while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(1995 Code, § 40-13) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.030 PLACING GLASS AND THE LIKE IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place upon any part of a public
street, highway, land, road, street or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass,
nails or any other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle or
animal traveling along or upon the public street or way.
(1995 Code, § 40-14) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.031 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any motorcycle, bicycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any other toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(1995 Code, § 40-19) Penalty, see §
70.999
REQUIRED EQUIPMENT
§ 70.045 MUFFLERS.
   (A)   Required. No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street in the
town unless the motor vehicle is equipped with a muffler in good working order
and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying
smoke.
   (B)   Cut-outs prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to use a
muffler cut-out on any motor vehicle operated within the town.
(1995 Code, § 40-15) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.046 RIDING MOTORCYCLES GENERALLY.
   A person operating or riding a motorcycle shall at all times while so
operating the vehicle wear a helmet as required by state law and ride only upon
the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not
carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless
the motorcycle is equipped with a seat designed for two persons and has
footrests for the operator and the passenger.
(1995 Code, § 40-16)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.060 DESIGNATION OF TRAFFIC ZONES, THROUGH STREETS AND THE LIKE; ERECTION
AND INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   (A)   The Traffic Engineer shall have the power to designate, lay off and
indicate, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, by appropriate signs and
markings: parking spaces and zones, no parking zones, limited parking zones,
reserved parking zones, parking meter zones, zones in which vehicles shall be
parked at an angle to the curb, loading zones, safety zones, school zones,
hospital zones, quiet zones, traffic zones other than the above, crosswalks,
truck routes, through streets, stop streets and intersections, yield right-of-
way intersections, one-way streets, streets to be laned for traffic, play
streets, bus stops and taxicab stands. He or she shall also have the power to
designate and indicate, with the approval of the Mayor and Council,
intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by traffic signals,
intersections at which left turns and/or right turns and "U" turns shall be
prohibited, and intersections at which markers, buttons or other indications
shall be placed to indicate the course to be traveled by vehicles traversing or
turning at the intersections.
   (B)   Whenever any designation is made in accord with this section, the
Traffic Engineer shall erect and install such signs, markings, lines, signals
and other traffic control devices as may be necessary to clearly indicate that
designation and to put drivers of vehicles on notice of the restriction,
limitation or prohibition resulting from the designation.
   (C)   All designations made in accordance with this section shall be clearly
shown and indicated on the official traffic control and regulation of parking
signs, markings and other devices schedule on file in the office of the Traffic
Engineer.
(1995 Code, § 40-41)
§ 70.061 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or use a vehicle upon
the streets of the town contrary to any signs, signals or other traffic control
devices that are placed upon the streets for the purpose of directing traffic,
except upon direction of a police officer and except as otherwise provided in
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 40-42) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.062 NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state that
signs are required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed
to give notice thereof.
(1995 Code, § 40-43)
§ 70.063 MOVING OR DAMAGING DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, deface or otherwise damage any
sign, signal or other traffic control device placed upon the streets of the
town.
(1995 Code, § 40-44) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.064 RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals, devices, and markings placed or erected
in the town prior to the adoption of this code and in use for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified and
declared to be official traffic control devices, provided the traffic control
devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or state law.
(1995 Code, § 40-45)
§ 70.065 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words "Go," "Caution" or "Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights,
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used, and the
terms and lights shall indicate as follows:
   (A)   Green alone, or "Go."
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone, or "Caution," when shown following the green or "Go"
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing this signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone, or "Stop."
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at any other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (3)   Except where prohibited by an appropriate sign, vehicular traffic
facing a red signal controlling traffic passing straight through an
intersection, after coming to a complete stop at the intersection, may enter
the intersection to make a right turn, but the vehicle shall yield the right-
of-way to pedestrians and other traffic using the intersection.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(1995 Code, § 40-46)
§ 70.066 FLASHING RED AND YELLOW SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution, yielding the right-of-way to
vehicles in or approaching the intersection.
(1995 Code, § 40-47)
§ 70.067 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon streets intersecting a
through street or stop intersection designated as provided in §
70.060, every driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to such signs before
entering the intersection and shall not proceed into or across the intersection
until he or she has first determined that no conflict with traffic will be
involved.
(1995 Code, § 40-48)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to designate stop intersections, see G.S. § 20-158
§ 70.068 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Whenever main-traveled or through streets are designated by erecting, at the
entrance thereto from intersecting streets, signs notifying drivers of vehicles
to yield the right-of-way to drivers of vehicles approaching the intersection
on the main-traveled or through street, pursuant to §
70.060, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to enter or cross
the main-traveled or through street, unless he or she shall first slow down and
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in movement on the main-traveled or
through street which is approaching so as to arrive at the intersection at
approximately the same time as the vehicle entering the main-traveled or
through street. No failure to so yield the right-of-way shall be considered
negligence or contributory negligence per se in any action at law for injury to
person or property, but the facts relating to the failure to yield the right-
of-way may be considered with the other facts in the case in determining
whether either party in the action was guilty of negligence or contributory
negligence.
(1995 Code, § 40-49) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-158.1
§ 70.069 DRIVING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets designated as one-way streets in
accord with §
70.060, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction, when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 40-50)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit other than one-way traffic, see G.S. § 20-169
§ 70.070 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district, except at street intersections; and no vehicle shall
make such a turn, even at street intersections, in the streets, or portions of
streets, designated and signposted pursuant to §
70.060.
(1995 Code, § 40-51)
§ 70.071 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
70.060, the Traffic Engineer, with approval of the Mayor and Council, may
designate truck routes within the town as may be necessary for the proper flow
of traffic through the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any truck to use, travel upon or be driven
upon any street, avenue or highway within the town not designated as a truck
route as in division (A) of this section; provided, however, that if the point
of origin or destination, for commercial purposes only, for any truck shall be
off the route, then the truck may proceed by the shortest possible route to or
from the nearest truck route.
(1995 Code, § 40-52) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Size, equipment of vehicles, see G.S. § 20-116
§ 70.072 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not at any time drive through or over a safety
zone marked, signed and designated pursuant to §
70.060.
(1995 Code, § 40-53) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-160
§ 70.073 DRIVING IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof
as a school zone pursuant to §
70.060, drivers of vehicles using the street shall exercise the greatest care
for the protection of children.
(1995 Code, § 40-54)
TRAFFIC CONTROL PHOTOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS
§ 70.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IN OPERATION.  Operating in good working condition.
   SYSTEM LOCATION. The approach to an intersection toward which a
photographic, video or electronic camera is directed and is in operation.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL PHOTOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS. An electronic system consisting of a
photographic, video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor installed to work
in conjunction with an official traffic control and to automatically produce
photographs, video or digital images of each vehicle violating a standard
traffic control.
   VEHICLE OWNER. The person identified by the State Division of Motor Vehicles
as the registered owner of a vehicle.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.086 ADMINISTRATION; CITATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Police Department shall administer the traffic control
photographic program and shall maintain a list of system locations where
traffic control photographic systems are installed.
   (B)   Any citation for a violation of G.S. § 20-158 issued by an officer of
the Town Police Department at a system location shall be treated in the same
manner as prescribed in this subchapter.
   (C)   The citation shall clearly state the manner in which the violation may
be appealed. The citation shall be processed by officials or agents of the town
and shall be forwarded by personal service or first class mail to the owner's
address as given on the motor vehicle registration.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 70.087 OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle to cross the stop line at a system
location when the traffic signal for that vehicle's direction of travel is
emitting a steady red light, or for a vehicle to violate any other traffic
regulation specified in G.S. § 20-158.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation under this
section, except when he or she can provide evidence that the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of another person at the time of the violation, as
described in division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, the owner of the vehicle shall not
be responsible for the violation if, within 21 days after notification of the
violation, he or she furnishes the officials or agents of the city:
      (1)   The name and address of the person or entity who leased, rented or
otherwise had the care, custody and control of the vehicle at the time of the
violation; or
      (2)   An affidavit by him or her stating that, at the time of the
violation, the vehicle involved was stolen or was in the care, custody or
control of some person who did not have his or her permission to use the
vehicle.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-12-2000) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.088 APPEALS.
   A notice of appeal shall be filed within 21 days after notification of the
violation. The failure to give notice of appeal within this time period shall
constitute a waiver of the right to contest the citation. Appeals shall be
heard through an administrative process established by the Town Police
Department. An individual desiring a hearing must post a bond equal to the
amount of the civil penalty before an appeal hearing will be scheduled. The
hearing officer's decision is subject to review in the Superior Court of the
county by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-12-2000)
RAILROADS
§ 70.100 OBEDIENCE TO WARNING DEVICE.
   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad track crossing
with any street, alley or other public way in the town and a clearly visible
and positive signal gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad
train, car or other similar equipment, it shall be unlawful for the driver of
the vehicle to fail to bring the vehicle to a complete stop before traversing
the grade crossing.
(1995 Code, § 40-228) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (B)   Any violation of §§
70.085 through
70.088 shall be deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of $50
shall be assessed, and for which no points authorized by G.S. § 20-16(c) shall
be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle. Failure to pay the civil
penalty or file an appeal within 21 days after notification of the violation
shall result in an additional penalty of $50. The town may establish procedures
for the collection of the civil penalties and may enforce the penalties by a
civil action in nature of a debt.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-12-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Civil penalty for golf carts and utility vehicles, see §
73.03
   Schedule of civil penalties for parking violations, see §
72.99
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Duty to drive on right half of street; generally
   
71.02   Duty to drive on right half; when crossing intersection or railroad
   
71.03   Meeting of vehicles
   
71.04   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.05   Passing vehicle proceeding in same direction; generally
   
71.06   Passing vehicle; when permitted on right
   
71.07   Passing vehicle; duty of driver of overtaken vehicle
   
71.08   Right-of-way generally
   
71.09   Exceptions to the right-of-way rule
   
71.10   Method of turning at intersections
   
71.11   Signals on starting, stopping or turning; required
   
71.12   Signals; manner of giving
   
71.13   Duty of drivers of vehicles upon approach of authorized emergency
vehicles
   
71.14   Following fire apparatus or driving near scene of fire
   
71.15   Driving over fire hose or blocking fire apparatus
   
71.16   Limitations on backing
   
71.17   Entering intersections and marked crosswalks restricted
   
71.18   Driving vehicles on sidewalks
   
71.19   Using wheels with cleats, lugs or flanges over streets and the like
prohibited
   
71.20   Corner-cutting
   
71.21   Following too closely
   
71.22   Driving overloaded or overcrowded vehicle
   
71.23   Skating
   
71.24   Right turns on red
Commercial Vehicles
   
71.35   Operating commercial vehicles in residential areas (without permit)
   
71.36   Purpose
   
71.37   Definitions
   
71.38   Permit
   
71.39   Effective date
Speed Restrictions
   
71.50   Maximum speed generally
   
71.51   Variation of maximum speed limits
   
71.52   School zones
   
71.53   Exemptions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Operation of vehicles and rules of the road, see G.S. §§ 20-138.1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 DUTY TO DRIVE ON RIGHT HALF OF STREET; GENERALLY.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing the movement;
   (B)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left of
the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the unobstructed
portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an immediate
hazard;
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon; or
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
(1995 Code, § 40-76)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-146(a)
§ 71.02 DUTY TO DRIVE ON RIGHT HALF; WHEN CROSSING INTERSECTION OR RAILROAD.
   In crossing an intersection of streets or the intersection of a street by a
railroad right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall at all times cause the
vehicle to travel on the right half of the street, unless the right half is
obstructed or impassable.
(1995 Code, § 40-77)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-147
§ 71.03 MEETING OF VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, each giving to the other at least one-half of the main-traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(1995 Code, § 40-78)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-148
§ 71.04 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles, operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic, shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane, until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(1995 Code, § 40-79)
§ 71.05 PASSING VEHICLE PROCEEDING IN SAME DIRECTION; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass at least two feet to the left thereof, and shall not
again drive to the right side of the street or highway until safely clear of
the overtaken vehicle. This section shall not apply when the overtaking and
passing is done pursuant to the provisions of §
71.06.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the center
of a street or highway, in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction, unless the left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit the overtaking and
passing to be made in safety.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction upon the crest of a grade or upon a curve in
the street or highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a distance
of 500 feet.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other vehicle
proceeding in the same direction at any railway grade crossing nor at any
intersection, unless permitted so to do by a traffic or police officer.
(1995 Code, § 40-80)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-149, 20-150
§ 71.06 PASSING VEHICLE; WHEN PERMITTED ON RIGHT.
   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
   (A)   When the vehicle overtaken is in a lane designated for left turns;
   (B)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width which has been marked for two or more lanes of moving vehicles in each
direction and which are not occupied by parked vehicles;
   (C)   Upon a one-way street, or upon a highway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement when the street or highway is free from
obstructions and is of sufficient width and is marked for two or more lanes of
moving vehicles which are not occupied by parked vehicles; or
   (D)   When driving in a lane designating a right turn on a red traffic
signal light.
(1995 Code, § 40-81)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-150.1
§ 71.07 PASSING VEHICLE; DUTY OF DRIVER OF OVERTAKEN VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle about to be overtaken and passed by another vehicle
approaching from the rear shall, unless the overtaking and passing is being
made upon the right as permitted in §
71.06, give way to the right in favor of the overtaking vehicle on suitable and
audible signal being given by the driver of the overtaking vehicle. In any
event, the driver of the overtaken vehicle shall not increase the speed of his
or her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-82)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-150 et seq.
§ 71.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY GENERALLY.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection or junction at
approximately the same time, except at arterial highways, stop streets or
through streets, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-
of-way to the vehicle on the right, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching but not having entered an
intersection or junction shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle already
within the intersection or junction, whether the vehicle in the junction is
proceeding straight ahead or turning in either direction; provided, that this
subsection shall not be interpreted as giving the right-of-way to a vehicle
already in an intersection or junction when the vehicle is turning either to
the right or left unless the driver of the vehicle has given a plainly visible
signal of intention to turn as required by §
71.12.
   (C)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street within a business or residence
district shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the street
within any clearly marked crosswalk, or any regular pedestrian crossing
included in the prolongation of the lateral boundary lines of the adjacent
sidewalk at the end of a block, except at intersections where the movement of
traffic is being regulated by traffic officers or traffic direction devices.
(1995 Code, § 40-83)
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way, see G.S. § 20-155
§ 71.09 EXCEPTIONS TO THE RIGHT-OF-WAY RULE.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle entering a public street or highway from a
private road or drive shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching
on a public street or highway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle upon a street, or highway shall yield the
right-of-way to Police and Fire Department vehicles and public and private
ambulances when the latter are operated upon official business and the drivers
thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This provision
shall not operate to relieve the driver of a Police or Fire Department vehicle
or public or private ambulance from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the street or highway, nor shall it protect the
driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of any arbitrary exercise of
the right-of-way.
(1995 Code, § 40-84)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 71.10 METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the driver of a vehicle
intending to turn to the right at an intersection shall approach the
intersection in the lane for traffic nearest to the right-hand side of the
street, and in turning shall keep as closely as practicable to the right-hand
curb or edge of the street, and when intending to turn to the left shall
approach the intersection in the lane for traffic to the right of and nearest
to the center of the street, and in turning shall pass beyond the center of the
intersection, passing as closely as practicable to the right thereof before
turning the vehicle to the left. When a vehicle is being operated on a three-
lane street, the driver thereof intending to turn to the left at an
intersection shall approach the intersection in the lane nearest to the center
of the street and designated for use by vehicles traveling in the same
direction as the vehicle about to turn.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the CENTER OF THE INTERSECTION shall
mean the meeting point of the medial lines of the streets intersecting one
another.
   (C)   The Mayor and Council may modify the foregoing method of turning at
intersections by clearly indicating, by buttons, markers or other direction
signs within an intersection installed or erected in accordance with the
provisions of §
70.060, the course to be followed by vehicles turning thereat, and it shall be
unlawful for any driver to fail to turn in accord with the indications.
(1995 Code, § 40-85) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-153
§ 71.11 SIGNALS ON STARTING, STOPPING OR TURNING; REQUIRED.
   The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway, before starting,
stopping or turning from a direct line, shall first see that the movement can
be made in safety, and if any pedestrian may be affected by the movement, shall
give a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn, and whenever the operation
of any other vehicle may be affected by the movement, shall give a signal as
required in §
71.12, plainly visible to the driver of the other vehicle, of the intention to
make the movement.
(1995 Code, § 40-86)
Statutory reference:
   Signals for starting, stopping or turning of vehicles, see G.S. § 20-154
§ 71.12 SIGNALS; MANNER OF GIVING.
   (A)   The signal required by §
71.11 shall be given by means of the hand and arm in the manner specified in
this section, or by any mechanical or electrical signal device approved by the
Department of Motor Vehicles of the state, except that when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent the hand and arm signal from being visible,
both to the front and rear, the signal shall be given by a device of a type
which has been approved by that Department.
   (B)   Whenever the signal is given, the driver shall indicate his or her
intention to start, stop or turn by extending the hand and arm from and beyond
the left side of the vehicle as hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Left turn. Hand and arm horizontal, forefinger pointing.
      (2)   Right turn. Hand and arm pointed upward.
      (3)   Stop. Hand and arm pointed downward.
   (C)   All hand and arm signals shall be given from the left side of the
vehicle and all signals shall be maintained or given continuously for the last
100 feet traveled prior to stopping or making a turn.
(1995 Code, § 40-87)
§ 71.13 DUTY OF DRIVERS OF VEHICLES UPON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY
VEHICLES.
   Upon the approach of any Police or Fire Department vehicle, or other
authorized emergency vehicle, giving audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust
whistle, the driver of every other vehicle shall immediately drive the same to
a position as near as possible and parallel to the right-hand edge of curb,
clear of any intersection of highways, and shall stop and remain in that
position unless otherwise directed by a police or traffic officer, until the
Police or Fire Department vehicle, or other emergency vehicle, shall have
passed.
(1995 Code, § 40-88) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-157(a)
§ 71.14 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS OR DRIVING NEAR SCENE OF FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than one block or to drive within one block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(1995 Code, § 40-89) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157(b)
§ 71.15 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE OR BLOCKING FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle over a fire hose or
any other equipment that is being used at a fire at any time, or to block a
firefighting apparatus or any other equipment from its source of supply,
regardless of its distance from the fire.
(1995 Code, § 40-90) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-157(d)
§ 71.16 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection, or
over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event, or at any place, otherwise back a
vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety, and he or she shall have
given ample warning to those who may be behind, by hand and horn or other
signal.
(1995 Code, § 40-91) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 ENTERING INTERSECTIONS AND MARKED CROSSWALKS RESTRICTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection, or a marked crosswalk, unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(1995 Code, § 40-92) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 DRIVING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle or bicycle shall not drive within any sidewalk area
except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(1995 Code, § 40-93) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 USING WHEELS WITH CLEATS, LUGS OR FLANGES OVER STREETS AND THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate on the streets or
sidewalks of the town any tractor or any other vehicle with cleats, lugs or
flanges, or any vehicle or machinery of any kind, the wheels or traction of
which are so constructed as to break, tear or damage or are likely to break,
tear or damage the surface of the streets or sidewalks.
(1995 Code, § 40-94) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 CORNER-CUTTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle upon or
across any sidewalk, driveway, filling station or other commercial driveway or
other similar surface located at the corner of any intersection protected by a
traffic light or other traffic signal or sign, for the purpose of evading the
regulations governing the turning of motor vehicles at intersections.
(1995 Code, § 40-95) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, with regard for the safety of others and due
regard to the speed of the vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the
highway.
(1995 Code, § 40-96) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-152
§ 71.22 DRIVING OVERLOADED OR OVERCROWDED VEHICLE.
   No person shall operate upon a street or highway a motor vehicle which is so
loaded or crowded with passengers or property, or both, as to obstruct the
operator's view of the street or highway, including intersections, or so as to
impair or restrict otherwise the proper operation of the vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-97) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-140.2
§ 71.23 SKATING.
   No person shall skate with roller skates upon the streets within the
corporate limits of the town, except those streets designated as play streets,
nor shall any person skate with roller skates upon any sidewalk in the town
within the business district.
(1995 Code, § 40-97) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 RIGHT TURNS ON RED.
   Except where prohibited by an appropriate sign, vehicular traffic facing a
red light controlling traffic passing straight through an intersection, after
coming to a complete stop at the intersection, may enter the intersection to
make a right turn, but the vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
and other traffic using the intersection.
(1995 Code, § 40-99)
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 71.35 OPERATING COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS (WITHOUT PERMIT).
   No person shall operate a commercial motor vehicle upon a town-maintained
road that is within or near a residential area that is clearly posted, without
obtaining a permit to do so.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the operation of commercial
traffic in residential areas, to maintain the safety of pedestrians and to
prevent damage to town-maintained roads.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 71.37 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC. 
      (1)   (a)   Any vehicle with three or more axles (excluding utility/light
weight trailers) engaged in interstate or intrastate commerce and while bearing
a load;
         (b)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR) of 26,001 pounds or more, provided the GVWR of the vehicle or vehicles
being towed is in excess of 10,001 pounds; or
         (c)   Any single vehicle with a GVWR of 26,001 pounds or more; and
      (2)   A towed unit that has a GVWR of less than 10,001 pounds.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 71.38 PERMIT.
   Permits will be issued by the Town Administrator or his or her designee in
addition to NCDOT permits and are subject to rejection or approval depending on
circumstances and or special provisions. A police escort may be required upon
request of permit.
 
(1) Day (24 hours)            $25
(2) Week (five days)          $125
(3) Saturday (special permit) $50
(4) No permits on Sunday
 
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006)
§ 71.39 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective as of November 15, 2006.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006)
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
§ 71.50 MAXIMUM SPEED GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of the following speeds unless otherwise posted:
      (1)   Thirty-five miles per hour in any business district;
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any residential district;
      (3)   Fifteen miles per hour shall be the lowest posted speed limit;
      (4)   Thirty-five miles per hour shall be the speed limit throughout the
incorporated limits of the Town of Pineville unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing
limits shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway, or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reasons of weather or street conditions, and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or
other conveyance on or entering the street or highway, and to avoid causing
injury to any person or property either on or off the street or highway, in
compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
(1995 Code, § 40-111) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-8-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-141
§ 71.51 VARIATION OF MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   The Mayor and Council may alter the maximum speed limit as established in §
71.50 on any street or portion thereof which is not a part of the state highway
system and which is not maintained by the State Highway Commission in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-141(f); provided, however, that no
such alteration shall be less than 15 miles per hour. No such alteration of the
speed limits shall become or remain effective unless signs have been
conspicuously placed giving notice of the speed limit for the street.
(1995 Code, § 40-112) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 71.52 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive any vehicle at
a speed greater than 25 miles per hour in any school zone during a period of
time of 30 minutes prior to and 30 minutes following the times when the school
begins and ends its daily schedule.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a SCHOOL ZONE shall be deemed to be
that portion of any street abutting any school property for a distance not to
exceed 500 feet on either side of the school property.
(1995 Code, § 40-113) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-8-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed in school zones, see G.S. § 20-141(e1)
§ 71.53 EXEMPTIONS.
   The speed limitations set forth in this subchapter shall not apply to
vehicles when operated with due regard for safety under the direction of the
police in the chase or apprehension of violators of the law or of persons
charged with or suspected of any such violation, nor to Fire Department or fire
patrol vehicles when traveling in response to a fire alarm, nor to public or
private ambulances when traveling in emergencies, nor to vehicles operated by
the duly authorized officers, agents and employees of the State Utilities
Commission when traveling in performance of their duties in regulating and
checking the traffic and speed of buses, trucks, motor vehicles and motor
vehicle carriers subject to the regulations and jurisdiction of the State
Utilities Commission. This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of
any such vehicle from the consequence of a reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(1995 Code, § 40-114) (Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-8-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-145
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §§
71.35 through
71.39 is subject to an enforcement action(s) to include penalties and fines but
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 11-14-2006; Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-8-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-116
   Similar provisions, see C.F.R. pt. 49
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Stopping in streets generally
   
72.02   Emerging from driveways and the like
   
72.03   Unattended motor vehicles
   
72.04   Prohibited in specified places
   
72.05   Prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.06   Primary purpose of advertising prohibited
   
72.07   Moving vehicles into prohibited areas and the like
   
72.08   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.09   Parking with left side towards curb; parking on one-way streets
   
72.10   Method of parking generally
   
72.11   Parking in bus stops or taxicab stands
   
72.12   Lights on parked vehicles
   
72.13   Parking tank trucks
   
72.14   On street parking and vehicles in excess of 90 inches in width
   
72.15   Starting from parked positions
   
72.16   Impoundment of standing or parked vehicles
   
72.17   Sale of beverages to occupants of parked vehicles
   
72.18   Blocking entrances, exits, ways and the like by parking
   
72.19   Parking tractor-trailers or vehicles over six tons
   
72.20   Use of parking lots
   
72.21   Parking vehicles for the purpose of sale
 
   
72.99   Schedule of civil penalties
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate or prohibit parking, see G.S. § 160A-301
   Parking prohibited in specific places, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.01 STOPPING IN STREETS GENERALLY.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless the stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering
of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of some
other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency. In any case covered by
these exceptions, the vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if it can be
avoided.
(1995 Code, § 40-136) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 EMERGING FROM DRIVEWAYS AND THE LIKE.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from a driveway or building shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto the sidewalk area extending across
any driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian, as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(1995 Code, § 40-137)
§ 72.03 UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow the
vehicle to stand on any street or highway in the town, unattended, without
first effectively setting the brakes thereon and stopping the motor of the
vehicle and, when standing upon any grade, without turning the front wheels of
the vehicle to the curb or side of the street or highway.
(1995 Code, § 40-138) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see G.S. § 20-163
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle or equipment except as
directed by a police officer or traffic control device in any of the following
places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within an intersection, or within 20 feet thereof;
      (3)   On a crosswalk;
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control
signal;
      (5)   No vehicle shall park within 50 feet on either side of any street
approaching any railroad crossing;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
the stopping or standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure;
      (8)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
hospital or any public building where the street is so marked;
      (9)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at
the edge or curb of a street;
      (10)   In front of or having any portion of a vehicle directly across the
street from a public or private driveway, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter;
      (11)   In front of any motion picture theater, except bicycles;
      (12)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, or within a designated fire
lane;
      (13)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, or similarly
within 75 feet of the entrance where marked;
      (14)   At any place where signs, yellow painted curb, or similar markings
prohibit parking;
      (15)   Within any designated fire lane; or
      (16)   On any street where there is less than 15 feet of unobstructed
roadway as measured from the side of the vehicle facing the street.
   (B)   The following shall apply to all off-street parking for property
developed for single family detached, duplex, triplex or quadruplex dwelling
units:
      (1)   Front yard parking.
         (a)   Parking, driveways, and vehicle paths shall be on improved
surfaces only.
         (b)   An improved driveway shall not exceed 25% of the area of the
defined front yard unless as paved by concrete or asphalt in one single
contiguous driveway, then the driveway area shall be allowed to be expanded to
a maximum of 35%. Driveways wide enough to accommodate two parked cars are
encouraged.
         (c)   Passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, semi-trailer truck
(cab only), golf carts, utility trailers, and boats or box trucks of 20 feet in
length or less are permitted. All other vehicles or equipment (i.e., heavy
equipment, backhoes, tractors, and similar) are prohibited in the front yard.
         (d)   FRONT YARD is defined as the space extending along the most
forward-facing foundation of a building façade or roofed porch of a residential
unit and measured outward from the closest corner or edge to meet the side
property lines then forward to the meet street or right-of-way of the lot on
which the unit is officially addressed or where the front door faces, as
determined by the Planning Director.
      (2)   Side yard.  
         (a)   Parking, driveways, and vehicle paths shall be on improved
surfaces only.
         (b)   Parking of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles, semi-
trailer truck (cab only), golf carts, utility trailers, and boats or box trucks
of 20 feet in length or less are permitted.
         (c)   SIDE YARD is defined as a space measured from foundation of a
side façade of a residential unit measured outward to meet the nearest side
property line(s) and stopping at the front and rear yards.
      (3)   Rear yard. No more than one junk vehicle or junk equipment item
such as tractor or four wheeler (see also Chapter 91 of this code) may be
parked in the rear yard.
         (a)   Parking in the rear yard is permitted if concealed/screened with
evergreen landscaping or minimum six-foot-high solid wood, vinyl, or masonry
fencing for all vehicles and equipment from the public right-of-way, and
adjacent properties, except as detailed below.
         (b)   Rear yard required parking screening is not required for working
tagged antique vehicles, or rear yard parking on an improved surface such as a
driveway.
         (c)   REAR YARD is defined as the space extending along the most rear-
facing façade foundation measured directly outward from the furthest rear edge
(s) of a residential unit to meet the side yard property line and backward to
meet the rear property boundary.
      (4)   Vacant lots. Parking of passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles,
golf carts, utility trailers, and boats or box trucks of 20 feet in length or
less are permitted on vacant lots in residential zoned property as screened and
improved under town code or zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Minimum parking. Minimum of two parking spaces. Each measured a
minimum of nine feet by 18 feet.
      (6)   Maximum number.  The maximum number of vehicles and/or equipment
allowed to park in the front yard shall be the greater of either of the
following options: two or one and a half rounded down per bedroom per property.
      (7)   Fully enclosed structures. Minimum parking counts shall include
fully enclosed garage structures, so long as the roll out trash cans have an
area to be stored aside from a parking space. The maximum parking count shall
exempt vehicles in fully enclosed garage structures.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, IMPROVED means surfaced with concrete,
asphalt, gravel or any other material commonly used for the parking of
vehicles, but not including grass or dirt.
   (D)   This section adopts the U.S. Department of Transportation definition
of passenger vehicle to mean cars and trucks used for passengers; the term here
excludes buses, commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles and trains.
   (E)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply:
      (1)   In conjunction with special events involving family or social
gatherings, provided such events do not occur more frequently than once a
month; except for weekly Sunday church events, and provided the town is made
aware and confirms the event prior; or
      (2)   To emergency and public service vehicles whose operators are
performing services for which they are responsible, nor do these prohibitions
apply to vehicles belonging to persons under contract with the city to perform
a public service.
(1995 Code, § 40-139) (Ord. 12, passed 1-11-2000; Ord. 2004-02, passed 9-14-
2004; Ord. 2007-02, passed 6-12-2007; Ord. 2018-01, passed 6-12-2018) Penalty,
see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking in front of fire hydrants and the like, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.05 PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purposes of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, changing tires or repairing the vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or
other vehicles; or
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prevent
parking for purposes of foreclosure and judicial sales.
(1995 Code, § 40-140) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(1995 Code, § 40-141) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 MOVING VEHICLES INTO PROHIBITED AREAS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from the curb to make the distance unlawful.
(1995 Code, § 40-142) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of other vehicles.
(1995 Code, § 40-143) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 PARKING WITH LEFT SIDE TOWARDS CURB; PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(1995 Code, § 40-144) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 METHOD OF PARKING GENERALLY.
   All vehicles shall park parallel to the curb and not more than 12 inches
therefrom.
(1995 Code, § 40-145)
§ 72.11 PARKING IN BUS STOPS OR TAXICAB STANDS.
   Whenever any bus stop or taxicab stand is designated and marked as provided
in §
70.060, no automobile or other vehicle shall be parked therein, except those
for which the space or stand has been designated.
(1995 Code, § 40-146) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street of the town in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required
when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200
feet upon the street.
(1995 Code, § 40-147)
§ 72.13 PARKING TANK TRUCKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or to permit to remain
standing, upon any street or public alley of the town, any transport tank
truck, designed, constructed or used for the bulk transportation of gasoline or
other petroleum products, whether the same be empty or loaded.
(1995 Code, § 40-148) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 ON STREET PARKING AND VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF 90 INCHES IN WIDTH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle, trailer,
material, or equipment which shall have a width in excess of 90 inches, and/or
any commercial vehicle, and/or any vehicle over 10,000 pounds upon any street
or street right-of-way within the town.
   (B)   Division (A) shall not apply to vehicles used in association with any
government approved roadway or utility project such as road repaving or where
specifically designed and approved for on street commercial vehicle parking/
loading as approved by Pineville Town Council.
   (C)   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE is defined as any vehicle or equipment other than a
customary residential two or four door passenger car, pick-up truck, sport
utility vehicle (SUV) or passenger van over 15 passengers.
(1995 Code, § 40-149) (Ord. 2019-01, passed 5-14-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 STARTING FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Vehicles parked shall move out in the direction headed, and no such movement
shall be made until the driver of the vehicle shall ascertain that the movement
can be made in safety.
(1995 Code, § 40-150) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 IMPOUNDMENT OF STANDING OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any vehicle which shall be or remain standing or parked upon any
public street, avenue, way, alley or other public place may be removed by or
upon order of the Town Administrator or the Chief of Police, and placed in
storage in a privately operated garage or other place designated by or
maintained by the town, under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is found upon a street, avenue, alley, way or
public place and a report has been previously made that the vehicle has been
stolen or complaint has been filed and a warrant issued thereon, charging that
the vehicle has been stolen or converted in violation of law;
      (2)   When a police officer arrests any person driving or in control of a
vehicle for an alleged offense and the officer is or may be required by law to
take the one arrested immediately before a magistrate, and when the arrested
one is the sole occupant or the owner of the vehicle and is immediately placed
in custody;
      (3)   When a vehicle is so disabled that its normal operation is
impossible or impractical and the persons in charge of the vehicle are
incapacitated by reason of physical injury or other causes to such an extent as
to be unable to provide for its removal or custody, or cannot be found or are
not in the immediate vicinity of the vehicle; and
      (4)   When any vehicle is left standing or parked unattended in violation
of any applicable provision of this code, state law or town ordinance, rule or
regulation.
   (B)   In order to obtain possession of a vehicle stored under the provisions
of this section, the claimant must produce satisfactory evidence of ownership
or right to possession within 30 days from the date of the storage and, in
addition thereto, must pay all charges for the removal and storage of the
vehicle, the storage charges not to exceed $1 per day, in addition to any fine
which may be assessed for the violation of any applicable provision of this
code, state law or town ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (C)   If a vehicle removed under this section is not claimed within 30 days
from the date of storage, the same may be sold by the town or the garage where
the same is stored, for all charges levied against the vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-151)
§ 72.17 SALE OF BEVERAGES TO OCCUPANTS OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   No person engaged in the sale of drinks within the town, or any employee of
the person, shall serve any drinks or beverages to any occupants of automobiles
parked or standing within the streets of the town.
(1995 Code, § 40-152) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 BLOCKING ENTRANCES, EXITS, WAYS AND THE LIKE BY PARKING.
   (A)   In any area set aside for the use of the public for parking vehicles
therein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park or otherwise leave a
vehicle stationary in such position as to interfere with the free entry into
the parking area or withdrawal therefrom. It shall likewise be unlawful for any
person, having entered such an area with a vehicle, to park the vehicle in such
manner and in such position with reference to any other vehicle already parked
therein as to interfere with the free movement of the other vehicle.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in such a
manner that it will block or obstruct the passage of motor vehicles into or out
of any alley or public or private driveway.
(1995 Code, § 40-153) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 PARKING TRACTOR-TRAILERS OR VEHICLES OVER SIX TONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any tractor-trailer or vehicle over 10,000
pounds to be parked in any parking lot, travel lane, or parking space designed
for passenger vehicles.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to vehicles used in association
with properties in zoning compliance with all valid approved permits for an
active construction site, vehicles parked actively refueling gas tanks such as
with gas stations, road repaving, water, sewer, or similar public utility
project, or as approved on a zoning temporary event permit.
(1995 Code, § 40-154) (Ord. 2021-03, passed 10-14-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 USE OF PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONGREGATION PROHIBITED. It shall be unlawful for more than ten people to
congregate on any one parking lot in the town between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 6:00 a.m., if the closest part of the parking lot is within 300
feet of a private residence, excepting any person parking a vehicle on a lot or
being on the lot for the purpose of patronizing a business establishment which
is actually open for business between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
      PARKING LOT. Any area within the town on which more than ten automobiles
may be parked and shall include public parking lots and those parking lots
which are for the principal purpose of providing parking during business hours
for shopping centers, stores, restaurants, drive-ins, theaters, and other
business or commercial establishments.
   (B)   Enumeration of offenses. It shall be unlawful for any person on a
parking lot in the town between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., to
do one or more of the following:
      (1)   Talk in a loud or boisterous manner;
      (2)   Drink beer or any kind of alcoholic beverage;
      (3)   Throw any type of bottle, can, container, trash or paper on the
parking lot;
      (4)   Use profanity or cursing in a manner that those standing in the
immediate vicinity of the person may hear the profanity or cursing; or
      (5)   Make such noise or disturbance that persons living in homes or
other dwelling accommodations within 300 feet of the parking lot are disturbed
in their place of living and deprived of their peace and quiet.
(1995 Code, § 40-155) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 PARKING VEHICLES FOR THE PURPOSE OF SALE.
   (A)   Parking and display of motor vehicles for sale is regulated as
follows.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section a PUBLIC PLACE is defined as any
location to which the public has access or is invited to enter. This definition
does not include a private residence, if used for the sale of the owner's or
tenant's personal vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, stand or park any
motor vehicle, boat, trailer, recreational vehicle or similar vehicle on any
public property or upon any public place, including vacant land, shopping
center parking lots, or any similar area, for the purpose of displaying the
vehicle for sale, unless the property is approved by the town to engage in the
business of selling motor vehicles.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, stand or park any
motor vehicle, boat, trailer, recreational vehicle or similar vehicle on any
unimproved or unpaved lot.
      (4)   (a)   These provisions do not apply to personal vehicles parked on
either public place or private property adjacent to a building or location to
which the vehicle owner has traveled to perform his or her normal course of
business or employment or on a personal errand. Under this division, vehicles
must be parked in marked areas designated for required and/or customer parking
for the business or location which the vehicle owner is patronizing. Vehicles
must also be located on improved lots only.
         (b)   Vehicles for sale permitted under this division can only be
located on the public place or private property during normal operating hours
of the business.
   (B)   Violation of this section is subject to the following:
      (1)   A vehicle parked on town owned property in violation of this
section shall be subject to immediate removal. Prior to causing a vehicle to be
removed, a town representative shall attempt to contact the individual whose
phone number appears on the "for sale" sign of the vehicle to provide an
opportunity for that individual to remove the vehicle.
      (2)   All other violations will be subject to the civil penalties fixed
by §
10.99 of the town code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-13-2009) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Effective April 12, 2022, the following civil penalties are fixed for
the traffic violations indicated:
 Offense Fine
     Offense                                                           Fine
(1)  Blocking alley                                                    $50
(2)  Blocking driveway                                                 $50
(3)  Double parking                                                    $50
(4)  Left side of curb                                                 $50
(5)  Meter violation                                                   $50
(6)  Non-parking space                                                 $50
(7)  Obstructing traffic (9:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m.) $50
(8)  Obstructing traffic (7:00 a.m.-9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m.) $75
(9)  Parking between curb and sidewalk                                 $50
(10) Parking overtime                                                  $50
(11) Park or drive on sidewalk                                         $50
(12) Pedestrians subject to traffic regulations                        $50
(13) Quiet zone                                                        $50
(14) Using street for storage                                          $100
(15) Unauthorized parking on city property                             $50
(16) Key in unattended vehicle                                         $50
(17) Vehicle parked in public right-of-way                             $100
(18) Handicapped parking                                               $250
(19) Blocking curb cut                                                 $100
(20) Violating restrictions in neighborhood parking permit area        $50
(21) General penalty unless otherwise shown                            $50
(22) Parking in a fire lane/blocking fire hydrant                      $100
 
   (B)   Traffic violations included in this section shall be delinquent after
the fifteenth day from issuance of the citation. Thereafter the following civil
penalties shall apply to traffic violations, in addition to the stated penalty:
 
Delinquent Period               Additional Penalty
Fifteen or more days delinquent $10
 
   (C)   A violation of §§ 72.01 through 72.20 shall not constitute a
misdemeanor or infraction punishable under G.S. § 14-4, but instead shall be
subject to the civil penalties fixed by §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 40-156) (Ord. 2004-04, passed 10-12-2004; Ord. 2021-01, passed
10-14-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL AND UTILITY VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles
   
73.01   Policy statement
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Rules and regulations
   
73.04   Effective date
 
   
73.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Golf cart owner registration
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 73.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted to promote the safety and welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Golf carts and similar vehicles intended primarily for off-roadway
use, hereinafter "carts," are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets, and the town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public
roads. The town, by regulating the operation of these vehicles, is merely
addressing safety issues, and the adoption of this subchapter is not a
determination that operation of carts on public streets is safe or advisable.
   (C)   All persons who operate or ride upon carts on public streets or roads
do so at their own risk and must obey all traffic ordinances as the Motor
Vehicle Code of the state, G.S. Chapter 20. Additionally, they must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians.
   (D)   The town assumes no liability under any theory of liability, for
permitting carts to be operated on the public streets and roads under the
special legislation granted by the state's legislature.
   (E)   Any person who operates a cart is responsible for procuring a motor
vehicle liability insurance policy for any such cart as a "motor vehicle" under
G.S. § 20-279.21. Proof of insurance must be presented to the town at the time
of registration.
   (F)   The Town Council must exercise its judgment concerning what roads to
allow carts to be driven upon. In exercising its judgment, the Town Council has
considered the following factors:
      (1)   Flexible and more efficient means of short-distance transportation
are necessary but not intended as a replacement or alternate for regular
transportation vehicles;
      (2)   Carts being driven upon roads that are main traffic arteries create
a greater public safety concern;
      (3)   The greater the distance a cart must be driven to reach its
destination, the greater the public safety concern; and
      (4)   Adopting rules and regulations concerning the operation of carts
upon public roads within the town promotes public safety.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Person in actual physical control of a vehicle which is in motion or
has the engine running. For the purpose of this subchapter, the terms DRIVER
and OPERATOR are synonymous.
   GOLF CART. Vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course
or recreational purposes not capable of exceeding 20 mph.
   SIMILAR VEHICLE. Vehicle designed and manufactured for general maintenance,
security, recreational and landscaping purposes, but does not include vehicles
designed and used primarily for the transportation of persons or property on a
street or highway.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 73.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts shall not be operated on any public road within the town except in
accordance with the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   No golf carts/utility vehicles shall be driven on or across any state-
maintained road.
   (B)   No occupants riding in a golf cart shall stand at any time while the
golf cart is in motion.
   (C)   All golf carts/utility vehicles must be operated in accordance with
all applicable state and local laws and ordinances, including the State Motor
Vehicle Code, G.S. Chapter 20.
   (D)   Golf carts/utility vehicles are only to be operated on public streets
during daylight hours, with the exception that golf carts equipped with
operating lights and reflectors meeting the requirements set forth below may
operate only between the hours of 7:00 a.m to 11:00 p.m.: Two lighted lamps,
one on each side of the front of the golf cart, visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 300 feet in front of the
golf cart, and two red lamps on the rear, exhibiting red lights visible under
like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the golf
cart.
   (E)   Carts are not to be used as an alternative means of transportation.
   (F)   Drivers of carts must have a valid driver's license, and must be at
least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Drivers of carts shall stay to the far right of the traveled portion
of the road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (H)   All carts must be registered with the town annually before traveling
on the public roads. The town shall charge a $25 fee per registration and issue
a permit as proof of compliance that should be attached to the cart.
   (I)   The maximum occupancy of a golf cart traveling on town roads shall be
one person per seat.
   (J)   Drivers must take the most direct route from their point of origin to
their destination and back whenever possible.
   (K)   (1)   All golf cart/utility vehicles shall have the following
equipment:
         (a)   Locking brakes;
         (b)   Reverse warning device;
         (c)   Main power switch;
         (d)   Horn;
         (e)   Either hip restraints or hand holds;
         (f)   Lighting devices specified above;
         (g)   Manufacturer's serial number plate; and
         (h)   Rear vision mirrors.
      (2)   Manufacturer installed safety labels shall be visible and readable.
   (L)   Golf carts and similar vehicles are prohibited on any sidewalks or in
town parks except in designated areas unless authorized to conduct town
business.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective as of November 1, 2008.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Golf carts and utility vehicles. Any act constituting a violation of
§§
73.01 through
73.04 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the
offenders to civil penalty of $100, plus the court costs and attorney fees
incurred by the town. If the offenders fail to pay the penalty within ten days
of receiving final written notice of violation, the penalty may be recovered by
the town in a civil action in the nature of debt. Repeat offenders may have the
privileges granted by this subchapter revoked by the Town Police Chief and/or
Town Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008)
APPENDIX A: GOLF CART OWNER REGISTRATION
GOLF CART OWNER REGISTRATION
TOWN OF PINEVILLE, N.C.
(Please Print in Blue or Black Ink)
Golf cart owner's name(s):
_____________________________________________________________
Owner's Physical Address:
____________________________________________________________
   City/Town: __________________________ State: _________________ Zip:
________________
Owner's Mailing Address:
_____________________________________________________________
   City/Town: ___________________________State: _________________ Zip:
________________
Owner's Telephone No. Daytime. ( ) __________________ Night time:( )
___________________
Owner's Driver License Number: ________________________________ State:
__________________
Make of golf cart (Mfg):
______________________________________________________________
Color of golf cart: __________________________________ Model (Year):
_____________________
Serial Number of golf cart:
____________________________________________________________
Assigned number of golf cart:
__________________________________________________________
I have received, read and understand the "Golf Cart Ordinance." I have paid the
registration fee for the above cart and agree to additional assessments as may
be required in support of this ordinance. I acknowledge that I will assume all
liability, and am fully responsible for the operation of the above cart on the
streets and roads in the Town of Pineville. I also acknowledge that the Town of
Pineville, in providing this privilege, is in no way endorsing the operation of
this cart on the streets and roads, and does not and will not assume any
liability in the operation of the cart. I agree to indemnify and hold harmless
the Town of Pineville for any and all liability arising from the use of this
golf car/cart. I also understand that the Pineville Police Department's
interpretation of all the rules and regulations is final. I will insure that
the assigned proof of compliance will remain attached to the driver's side of
the cart at all times. I furthermore insure that I will obey all the rules and
regulations set forth by the Town of Pineville concerning the operation of a
cart within the town limits.
______________________________________       ________________________________________
Owner's Signature                   Date
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------------
For Town's Use Only
Approved by:    Chief of Police    Town Administrator    Other:
_____________________
______________________________________       ________________________________________
Signature                     Date
   INSPECTION CHECKLIST
( ) Locking brakes
( ) Reverse warning device
( ) Main power switch
( ) Horn
( ) Either hip restraints or hand holds
    Lighting devices as stated in §§
( ) 73.01 through
    73.04 (for night use):
    "Two lighted lamps, one on each side of the front of the golf cart [...]
    and two red lamps on the rear"
( ) Manufacturer's serial number plate
( ) Rear vision mirrors
( ) Proof of insurance
( ) $25 registration fee paid
 
(Ord. 2008-04, passed 9-9-2008)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Application of chapter
   
74.02   Right-of-way at crosswalks
   
74.03   Crossing at other than crosswalk
   
74.04   Walking on traveled portion of street
   
74.05   Soliciting rides
   
74.06   Special provisions relative to blind pedestrians
   
74.07   Duty of drivers
   
74.08   Pedestrians soliciting employment, business or funds upon public
streets
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians' rights and duties, see G.S. §§ 20-172 et seq.
§ 74.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections, as
provided in this chapter, but at all other places, pedestrians shall be
accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 40-196)
§ 74.02 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked
crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-197)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-173
§ 74.03 CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
(1995 Code, § 40-198) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-174
§ 74.04 WALKING ON TRAVELED PORTION OF STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for pedestrians to walk along the traveled portion of
any street or highway unless sidewalks are not provided; in which event, the
pedestrians shall walk on the extreme left-hand side of the street, and the
pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to approaching traffic.
(1995 Code, § 40-199) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-174
§ 74.05 SOLICITING RIDES.
   No person shall stand in the traveled portion of a street or highway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any private vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 40-200) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-175
§ 74.06 SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATIVE TO BLIND PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   At any street, road or highway crossing or intersection, where the
movement of traffic is not regulated by a traffic officer or by traffic control
signals, any blind or partially blind pedestrian shall be entitled to the
right-of-way at the crossing or intersection, if the blind or partially blind
pedestrian shall extend before him or her, at arm's length, a cane white in
color or white tipped with red, or if the person is accompanied by a guide dog.
Upon receiving such a signal, all vehicles at or approaching the intersection
or crossing shall come to a full stop, leaving a clear lane through which the
pedestrian may pass, and the vehicle shall remain stationary until the blind or
partially blind pedestrian has completed the passage of the crossing or
intersection. At any street, road or highway crossing or intersection, where
the movement of traffic is regulated by traffic control signals, blind or
partially blind pedestrians shall be entitled to the right-of-way if the person
having the cane or accompanied by a guide dog shall be partly across the
crossing or intersection at the time the traffic control signals change, and
all vehicles shall stop and remain stationary until the pedestrian has
completed passage across the intersection or crossing.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to deprive any
blind or partially blind person not carrying a cane white in color or white
tipped with red, or being accompanied by a guide dog, of any of the rights and
privileges conferred by law upon pedestrians crossing streets and highways, nor
shall the failure of the blind or partially blind person to carry a cane white
in color or white tipped with red, or to be accompanied by a guide dog, upon
the streets, roads, highways or sidewalks be held to constitute or be evidence
of contributory negligence by virtue of this section.
(1995 Code, § 40-201)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-175.2, 20-175.3
§ 74.07 DUTY OF DRIVERS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, every driver of a vehicle
shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precautions upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(1995 Code, § 40-202)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-174
§ 74.08 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING EMPLOYMENT, BUSINESS OR FUNDS UPON PUBLIC
STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or loiter in the main-traveled portion,
including the shoulders and median, of any public street, excluding sidewalks,
or stop any motor vehicle for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
contributions from the driver or occupant of any motor vehicle on the public
highways or streets; provided that the provisions of this section shall not
apply to licensees, employees or contractors of the Department of
Transportation or of the town engaged in construction or maintenance, or in
making traffic or engineering surveys.
   (B)   In the event the solicitation event or the solicitors shall create a
nuisance, delay traffic, or create threatening or hostile situations, any law
enforcement officer with proper jurisdiction may order the solicitations to
cease. Any individual failing to follow a law enforcement officer’s lawful
order to cease solicitation shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and be
subject to a maximum fine not to exceed $200 pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175 and
G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 9, passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2023-04, passed 11-14-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: TOWING AND BOOTING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
Towing Motor Vehicles on Private Property
   
75.01   Definitions
   
75.02   Towing of vehicles for compensation
   
75.03   Trespass towing of vehicles from private parking lots; signs required
   
75.04   Trespass towing of vehicles from private parking lots; practices
   
75.05   Return of Class A motor vehicle to owner after a trespass tow
   
75.06   Trespass towing notice to police required
Booting Motor Vehicles on Private Property
   
75.20   Booting of a vehicle on a private lot
   
75.21   Booting of vehicles on private parking lots; signs required
   
75.22   Fee charged for removing boot
 
   
75.99   Penalty
TOWING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 75.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
indicates a different meaning.
   BOOT. Any device attached to a vehicle that prevents it from being driven.
   BOOTING SERVICE. Any person or entity that engages in, or who owns or
operates a business that engages, in whole or in part, in the booting of
vehicles.
   CLASS A VEHICLE. Any vehicle with a gross weight up to and including 9,000
pounds.
   PRIVATE PARKING LOT. Any parking lot or area owned by a private entity that
provides parking spaces for a fee or requires the permission of the owner,
lessee, or agent before a person may park at that location. A PRIVATE PARKING
LOT includes vehicle parking spaces in an apartment complex or a shopping
center.
   TOW. To haul, carry, pull along, or otherwise transport or remove a motor
vehicle by means of another vehicle.
   TOWING SERVICE. Includes any person or other entity, whether licensed or
not, that engages in, or who owns or operates a business that engages, in whole
or in part, in the towing or removal of motor vehicles for compensation.
   TRESPASS TOWING. The towing or removal of a vehicle, without the consent of
the vehicle’s owner or operator, that is parked on a private parking lot
without the property owner’s or agent's consent.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 75.02 TOWING OF VEHICLES FOR COMPENSATION.
   No towing service shall conduct a trespass tow of a Class A vehicle from a
private parking lot for compensation, when the point of origin of the tow is
within the jurisdictional limits of the city, without complying with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 TRESPASS TOWING VEHICLES OF FROM PRIVATE PARKING LOTS; SIGNS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to tow or remove or immobilize, by use of any wheel
lock or other method, a motor vehicle that is parked on private property or
private parking lot, without the permission of the owner or lessee of the motor
vehicle, unless notice is posted in accordance with the provisions of this
section on the private property from which the towing, removal, or
immobilization occurs. The notice shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The notice must be in the form of a sign structure, not less than 24
inches by 24 inches and not larger than six square feet, constructed of metal,
plastic or other durable material.
      (1)   The notice shall be prominently posted on the private property at
each access or curb cut allowing vehicle access to the property, and within
five feet of the street right-of-way line.
      (2)   If there are no curb or access barriers, notices shall be posted
not less than every 50 feet facing the frontage of the public street and facing
the private parking lot.
      (3)   In addition, a sign, not less than 12 inches by 18 inches in size,
with lettering on both sides, may be posted at each parking space from which an
unauthorized vehicle could be towed, removed, or immobilized.
   (B)   The notice shall clearly display the following:
      (1)   In not less than one-and-one-half-inch-high letters, red in color
on a contrasting white background, the words "tow-away zone” or “towing
enforced”.
      (2)   In not less than one-inch-high letters, red in color on a
contrasting white background, a statement that parking is never authorized by
stating “private property - no parking”, or where parking is permitted under
limited circumstances, by stating “authorized parking only” or “leased parking
only”, or “parking for                            customers only” or “parking
for residents only”, or a similar phrase that specifically identifies the
conditions under which someone may park on the property. If parking is only
allowed for a specified time, then the sign shall specifically state the days
and hours when parking is permitted.
      (3)   In not less than one-inch-high letters, red in color on a
contrasting white background, the phone number that a person can call to
retrieve the towed vehicle, and the name and address of the storage facility
where the vehicle is stored.
   (C)   The sign displaying the required notices shall be permanently
installed, with the bottom of the sign not less than three feet above ground
level, and the top of the sign not more than eight feet above ground level.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 TRESPASS TOWING OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PARKING LOTS; PRACTICES.
   (A)   Any towing service that engages in a trespass tow, or any storage
facility that receives motor vehicles that have been towed as a result of a
non-consensual tow from private property, shall accept cash and at least two
major credit cards and any debit card for any fee established by this
subchapter. Upon request, the employee for the towing service or storage
facility will provide a receipt to the owner or operator of the towed motor
vehicle.
   (B)   Any towing service that engages in a trespass tow, or any storage yard
that receives motor vehicles that have been towed as a result of a non-
consensual tow from private property, shall have on call 24 hours every day a
person who acknowledges requests to retrieve a towed motor vehicle, within 15
minutes of receiving an inquiry from the owner or operator of the towed motor
vehicle. If the owner or operator wishes to retrieve the motor vehicle, then
the towing service or storage facility must make the vehicle available within
45 minutes of the request.
   (C)   The lot or facility to which a trespass towed vehicle is removed shall
be located within 20 miles of the town limits.
   (D)   No towing service shall remove a motor vehicle from a private lot from
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., unless the owner or agent of the private
lot signs a contemporaneous, specific written authorization for such removal
that is presented to the wrecker driver of the towing service. The agent must
be someone other than an employee of the towing service. The written
authorization shall contain the reason for the tow, the make, model, year,
color, vehicle identification number (VIN) and license plate number of the
vehicle to be towed. The wrecker driver shall contact the non-emergency number
for the Police Department and provide the above information. The motor vehicle
will not be removed from the private lot until the driver has been advised of a
complaint number.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 RETURN OF CLASS A VEHICLE TO OWNER AFTER A TRESPASS TOW.
   The owner of a towing service shall have someone on call from 7:00 a.m. to
7:00 p.m. for the return to the owner of a Class A vehicle that has been
trespass towed.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 TRESPASS TOWING NOTICE TO POLICE REQUIRED.
   Any towing service operating within the city shall, within 30 minutes of the
removal of the vehicle from a private parking lot, notify the non-emergency
police service bureau of the Police Department of the towing; the storage site;
the time the vehicle was towed or removed; and the make, model, year, color,
vehicle identification number (VIN), and license plate number of the vehicle.
The towing service shall obtain and retain the case number the Police
Department assigned to the call.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
BOOTING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 75.20 BOOTING OF A VEHICLE ON A PRIVATE LOT.
   No booting service shall boot a vehicle within the town limits without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter. However, this section does
not apply to any company that is acting on behalf of a governmental agency.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 75.21 BOOTING OF VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PARKING LOTS; SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No booting service shall boot a vehicle, of any size or weight, on a
private parking lot, unless a sign is conspicuously posted and clearly visible
from all vehicle and pedestrian entrances to the property. The sign must
clearly provide the following information:
      (1)   The property is a private lot and a vehicle not authorized to park
on the property will be booted at the owner's expense;
      (2)   The name, telephone number, and address of the person or company
that is authorized to remove the boot;
      (3)   A statement that the boot may be removed at anytime, day or night,
upon payment not to exceed the amount specified in §
75.22.
   (B)   When the booting service is contacted to remove the boot, a designated
employee of the company will respond within one hour.
   (C)   An occupied vehicle may not be booted.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.22 FEE CHARGED FOR REMOVING BOOT.
   (A)   The fee to remove a boot shall not exceed $75.
   (B)   Unless it is acting on behalf of a governmental agency, it is unlawful
for a private booting company to place a boot on a motor vehicle parked on the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction
punishable under G.S. § 14-4, but instead shall be subject to the civil
penalties fixed by §
10.99.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 5-9-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   NUISANCES; SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
94.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
         
95.   ADVERTISING
         
96.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Jurisdiction; interlocal agreements
   
90.003   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.015   Bureau
   
90.016   Inspections; interference; concealment
   
90.017   Enforcement
   
90.018   Negligence per se
Care, Control and Prohibited or Restricted Acts
   
90.030   Abandoned animals
   
90.031   Abuse of animals
   
90.032   Animal bite
   
90.033   Aggression-trained dogs
   
90.034   Guard dogs
   
90.035   Dangerous, biting or attacking animals
   
90.036   Animals at town-sponsored events
   
90.037   Injuring animals
   
90.038   Nuisance
   
90.039   Reckless riding or driving of animal
   
90.040   Restraint of animals
   
90.041   Harboring stray animals
   
90.042   Exotic or wild animals
Licensing and Permits
   
90.055   License and rabies tags and fees
   
90.056   Animal permits
   
90.057   Permit for three or more dogs or cats kept outside
   
90.058   Appeal of denial or revocation of permit
   
90.059   Nonresident exceptions
Impoundment, Seizure/Forfeiture, Containment, Spay/Neuter Services and
Disposition of Animals
   
90.070   Impoundment
   
90.071   Seizure, forfeiture and disposition of animals
   
90.072   Dangerous animal seizure and forfeiture procedure
   
90.073   General seizure/forfeiture procedure
   
90.074   Protective measures for containment of animals
   
90.075   Fees
   
90.076   Spay and neuter services
   
90.077   Rabies impoundment
   
90.078   Uncared-for animals
   
90.079   Sale or euthanasia
Charter reference:
   Spay/neuter clinic and differential license tax, see §§ 7.71 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Dogs, see G.S. Chapter 67
   Municipal authority to prohibit the abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-182
   Municipal authority to regulate domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-184
   Municipal authority to restrict or prohibit dangerous animals, see G.S. §
160A-187
   Protection of animals, see G.S. Chapter 19A
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by the General Assembly, this chapter is
enacted to:
      (1)   Regulate, restrict or prohibit, if necessary, animals;
      (2)   Protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray, roaming,
dangerous, wild or exotic animals;
      (3)   Make unlawful the acts of animals that interfere with the enjoyment
of property or the peace and safety of the community;
      (4)   Protect animals from abuse or conditions harmful to their well-
being;
      (5)   Operate an animal shelter; and
      (6)   Carry out any other lawful duties authorized by state laws and
applicable ordinances.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby finds that animals kept or allowed to be in
violation of any of the sections of this chapter are detrimental to the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town and jeopardize the peace and
dignity of the town.
(1995 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.002 JURISDICTION; INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   No employee of the Animal Control Bureau shall have the authority to
enforce this chapter within any other corporate limits or jurisdictions, unless
an interlocal agreement pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-460 et seq. is executed by the
town and the incorporated township. Such an interlocal agreement may be entered
into at any time, provided the appropriate resolution is adopted by the
governing body of any municipality or township agreeing that this chapter shall
be enforced by the animal control officers, as defined in §
90.003, within the corporate limits or jurisdiction of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER.  An enclosed area accessible by an animal, of sufficient
size and nature so as to provide the animal with reasonable protection from
adverse weather conditions.
   AGGRESSION-TRAINED DOG. Any dog that has been trained or conditioned, to any
extent, to bite, attack or exhibit aggressive behavior towards humans or other
domestic animals for any purpose, including but not limited to the security of
business property or personal security.
   AGGRESSION-TRAINING FACILITY. Any person who schools, trains or conditions
canines to bite, attack or exhibit aggressive behavior towards humans or other
domestic animals for any purpose, including but not limited to the security of
business property or personal security.
   ANIMAL. Every nonhuman, animate being that is endowed with the power of
voluntary motion, including but not limited to dogs, cats, livestock and other
mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians and fish.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS. Persons properly appointed by the town or its
designee to enforce all sections of this chapter and applicable state laws and
who are responsible for discharging other duties and functions as may be
prescribed by the Town Council as set forward by this chapter or any other
applicable ordinance or state law or pursuant to interlocal agreements cited in
§
90.002.
   BUREAU. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Animal Control Bureau.
   BUREAU MANAGER. The manager of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Animal Control
Bureau. The BUREAU MANAGER shall have all the powers conferred by state law
upon a County Dog Warden and by this chapter upon animal control officers or by
any other applicable ordinances.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. In computing any period of time, any day which the
Bureau is open shall be counted. This includes Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays, when applicable.
   COUNTY DOG WARDEN. The Manager of the Animal Control Bureau, who shall have
all powers conferred by state law upon the County Dog Warden or by this chapter
upon animal control officers.
   COUNTY RABIES ORDINANCE. The county ordinance for the control of rabies and
other zoonoses.
   DANGEROUS. Any animal whose behavior, temperament, size or any combination
thereof, when considered under the totality of the circumstances, including the
nature of the surrounding area, constitutes a reasonable risk of injuring a
human or animal or damaging personal or real property. That behavior includes
but is not limited to an animal's biting or attacking or attempting to attack a
human or another animal. However, this definition shall not apply to any animal
that has been subject to provocation or if the victim has been trespassing, as
defined in this section, upon the animal owner's premises.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex.
   DOMESTICATED. Those species of animals that are indigenous to the county and
normally and customarily share human habitat in the county and are normally
dependent on humans for food and shelter in the county, such as but not limited
to dogs, cats, cattle, horses, swine, fowl, sheep and goats.
   EQUINE. Any horse, pony, mule, donkey or hinny.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL.  An animal that would ordinarily be confined to a
zoo; one that would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other
country; one that is a species of animal not indigenous to the United States or
to North America; or one that otherwise is likely to cause a reasonable person
to be fearful of significant destruction of property or of bodily harm, and the
latter includes but is not limited to monkeys, raccoons, squirrels, ocelots,
bobcats, wolves, hybrid wolves, venomous reptiles and other such animals. SUCH
ANIMALS are further defined as being those mammals or non-venomous reptiles
weighing over 50 pounds at maturity, which are known at law as Ferae
naturae. EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS specifically do not include animals of a
species customarily used in the state as ordinary household pets, animals of a
species customarily used in the state as domestic farm animals, fish confined
in an aquarium other than piranha, birds or insects.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any animal or human bitten by or exposed to any animal
known or suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   GUARD DOGS. Dogs primarily kept for the purpose of protecting premises from
intruders or for the purpose of attacking a person coming in the vicinity of
the dog.
   HARBORING AN ANIMAL. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed
or sheltered 14 days or more, unless the animal is being boarded for a fee.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the County Health Department.
   IMPOUNDED. Any animal that is received into custody by any employee of the
Bureau.
   INOCULATION. The vaccination of a dog or cat with antirabic vaccine approved
by the United States Bureau of Animal Industry, the State Department of
Agriculture and the State Board of Health at such time as shall be required by
state law, the State Board of Health and/or the local Health Director Bureau
Manager, as defined in G.S. § 130A-185.
   LIVESTOCK. All animals of a domesticated, agricultural nature, including but
not limited to equine animals, bovine animals, sheep, goats, llamas and swine.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male dog or cat which has been rendered sterile by a
surgical procedure (orchiectomy).
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of sheltering, feeding,
harboring or taking care of any animal for 14 or more consecutive days, unless
the animal is boarded for a fee. If a commercial kennel is involved for
breeding, ownership shall be indicated by the kennel operator by showing the
registration of the animal in the name of the actual OWNER of the animal.
   PASTURE. An auxiliary fenced area with sufficient grass for grazing.
   PREMISES. A definite portion of real estate, including land with its
appurtenances, a building or part of a building.
   PROVOCATION. Any act done towards an animal that a reasonable person would
expect to irritate or enrage the animal to the extent that the animal would be
likely to bite or attack, including but not limited to teasing, harassing,
beating, torturing, injuring or intentionally causing pain to an animal.
PROVOCATION does not include any actions on the part of an individual that
pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense or defense of others.
   SECURITY DOGS. Synonymous with GUARD DOGS.
   SHELTER. Any facility designated by the town for the purpose of sheltering
any animal lawfully impounded by the Bureau.
   SPAYED FEMALE. A female dog or cat that has been rendered sterile by
surgical means (ovariohysterectomy).
   TOWN-SPONSORED EVENT. Any event generally open to the public that is funded
in whole or in part by, or endorsed by, the town.
   TRESPASS. The wrongful or legally unauthorized entrance onto or invasion of
the property of an animal owner or lawful possessor. The cause of the
individual to be on the property and any other relevant circumstances shall be
considered in order to determine whether a TRESPASS has occurred. A child under
the age of seven shall not be deemed to be a trespasser.
(1995 Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.015 BUREAU.
   (A)   Created; authority. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Animal Control Bureau is
a consolidated bureau created by the execution of an interlocal agreement
between the City of Charlotte and the town. Pursuant to that agreement, the
Bureau is under the authority of the town.
   (B)   Duties of Manager and officers. There shall be a Bureau Manager of the
Bureau. The Bureau Manager and animal control officers shall be charged with
the responsibilities of the following:
      (1)   Enforcing and carrying out the sections of this chapter and of any
other ordinance assigning animal control duties and of all relevant state laws,
except that the Bureau Manager and animal control officers shall have no duties
or responsibilities whatsoever with respect to organizing and carrying out any
rabies vaccination clinics;
      (2)   Making canvasses, including homes and businesses, for the purpose
of:
         (a)   Ascertaining that all dogs, cats and equine animals are properly
licensed, if required;
         (b)   Ascertaining that all dogs and cats are currently vaccinated
against rabies;
         (c)   Organizing and carrying out any such canvas having sole and
exclusive authority, control and responsibility for those actions; and
         (d)   Ascertaining that sections of this chapter are being followed;
      (3)   Investigating complaints regarding animals;
      (4)   Enforcing the laws with regard to the vaccination of dogs and cats
against rabies and enforcement of the county rabies ordinance; investigating
all reported animal bites or other human physical contact of the suspected
rabid animal, enforcement of quarantine of any animal involved, and submission
of bite reports and reports of human contacts to the Health Director. The
county ordinance for the control of rabies and other zoonoses declares that the
Health Director is responsible for county programs to monitor and control
rabies and other zoonotic diseases;
      (5)   Supervising the animal shelter and Bureau employees; and
      (6)   Protecting animals from neglect and abuse.
   (C)   Uniform. Every employee of the Bureau, while performing the respective
duties in division (B) of this section, shall wear any required uniform and
badge as determined by the Bureau Manager.
   (D)   Weapons. The employees of the Bureau shall not carry on their person
any firearms of any kind unless specifically authorized by the Bureau Manager
or his or her designee. However, employees of the Bureau may store at the
animal shelter or carry in Bureau vehicles firearms, including tranquilizer
guns, approved for use by the Bureau Manager or his or her designee. The
firearms may be used when necessary to enforce sections of this chapter or
other applicable laws for the control of wild, diseased or dangerous animals or
for public safety when the Bureau Manager deems the action necessary. While
acting with weapons in their official capacity, employees of the Bureau shall
be exempt from any section of this code otherwise requiring permits or Town
Council approval.
(1995 Code, § 10-26) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.016 INSPECTIONS; INTERFERENCE; CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   Inspections.  
      (1)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of
the sections of this chapter or other applicable law, or whenever an employee
of the Bureau has probable cause to believe that there exists any building or
upon any premises any violation of this chapter or other applicable law, the
employees of the Bureau are empowered to enter and inspect the property at any
reasonable time and perform any duty imposed upon them by this chapter or other
applicable law, but only if the consent of the occupant or owner of the
property is freely given or an administrative search warrant or criminal search
warrant is obtained, or if legally recognized exigent circumstances exist, as
follows:
         (a)   If the property is occupied, the employee of the Bureau shall
first present credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the
reasons therefor;
         (b)   If the property is unoccupied, the employee of the Bureau shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
control of the property, present proper credentials and request entry,
explaining the reasons therefor; and
         (c)   If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having control or charge of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, an employee of the Bureau may obtain an appropriate warrant to
conduct a search or inspection of the property or seizure on the property or
may act under a legally recognized exigent circumstance if one exists.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, an employee of
the Bureau shall have the authority to enter upon any land to enforce this
chapter or other applicable law if a violation of the law is being committed in
the presence of the employee and the entrance is otherwise consistent with the
Constitution of the United States. Such entry upon private property shall not
be deemed to be a trespass.
   (B)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, molest, resist or obstruct employees of the Bureau while they are
carrying out any duty created under this chapter or other applicable law.
   (C)   Concealment of animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal,
for the purpose of evading the licensing requirement, permit requirement or
rabies inoculation requirement of this chapter or any applicable chapter, any
unlicensed, uninoculated or unpermitted animal from any employee of the Bureau.
   (D)   Concealment of license, permit or rabies inoculation. It shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse to show proof of a license, permit or a
rabies inoculation to any employee of the Bureau upon request.
(1995 Code, § 10-27) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.017 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Methods. This chapter may be enforced by one or more of the following
methods, unless otherwise limited to a specific manner of enforcement by this
section or chapter.
      (1)   Civil citation. Enforcement by civil citations shall be in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   Civil citations may generally be used to enforce any section of
this chapter. Such citations may be used independently or in conjunction with
any other enforcement method. Violations of the following sections may only be
enforced by the issuance of a civil citation:
 
Code Section Activity
90.036(A)    Animals at town-sponsored events
90.039       Reckless riding or driving of animal
90.041(A)    Harboring stray animals
90.055       Failure to have town animal license
90.056       Animal permits
90.074(D)    Failure to comply with containment order
 
         (b)   1.   The penalties assessed by civil citations shall be in
accordance with the escalating civil penalty table that follows. The civil
penalty table applies to all violations that are enforced civilly, regardless
of any other method of enforcement that may be additionally used. Each prior
offense must be evidenced by the issuance of a civil citation or a criminal
conviction arising from a prior offense before the next escalated penalty for
subsequent offenses may be assessed. Penalties shall only escalate when the
same offense has been committed by the same owner in the past. No offense
occurring more than ten years before the current offense shall be considered.
            2.   If payment, or appeal, or payment after appeal, for any civil
citation is not made within 30 calendar days of the issuance of a civil
citation or of the issuance of the appeal decision, the monetary penalty shall
be double that stated in the escalating civil penalty table that follows.
Issuance or payment shall be considered made when deposited with proper postage
in the United States mail or when received by the person being cited or the
town. The Bureau Manager or his or her designee may waive the doubling of the
monetary penalty upon a showing that the tardiness of payment was not due to
willfulness or neglect on the part of the cited person.
         (c)   Each day that an ongoing violation continues shall be considered
a separate violation from any previous or subsequent violation, and each
separate violation may be the basis of a citation.
 
Owner's Penalty
Offense
First   $50 fine
Second  $75 fine
Third   $150 fine and/or restraint measures in accordance with §
        90.074
        $25 fine and/or restraint measures in accordance with §
        90.074 that shall include a secure enclosure if violation is of §§
Fourth  90.032,
        90.035 or
        90.040
Fifth   $500 fine and seizure/forfeiture of the animal
 
      (2)   Criminal misdemeanor. The violator may be charged with a
misdemeanor and be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99.
      (3)   Injunction. The town may apply to the appropriate court for an
injunction and order of abatement that would require that a violator correct
any unlawful condition relating to this chapter existing on his or her
property.
      (4)   Seizure/forfeiture.
         (a)   The following sections of this chapter may be enforced by the
immediate seizure and forfeiture to the Bureau of the animal that is the basis
for a violation of the section:
Code Section Offense
Code Section Offense
90.030       Abandoned animals
90.031       Abuse of animals
90.032       Animal bite
90.035       Biting or attacking animals
90.038       Nuisance
90.040       Restraint of animals
90.055       License and rabies tags and fees
90.057       Permit for three or more dogs or cats kept outside
90.071       Seizure, forfeiture and disposition of animals
90.078       Uncared-for animals
 
         (b)   The manner of the seizure and the procedure by which the animal
may be forfeited to the Bureau is that set out in §
90.073 unless otherwise stated by the particular section authorizing the
seizure and forfeiture. This division shall not be read to limit in any way any
seizure or forfeiture authorized by the civil escalating penalties table in
division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Authority. The Bureau shall have the authority to carry out
enforcement in the county established by the "Agreement between the Town of
Pineville and Mecklenburg County for the Consolidation of the Building
Inspection Departments, Animal Control Departments and the Rideshare Program."
   (C)   Exception. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
sheriff deputies or law enforcement officers of any kind from enforcing any of
the sections of this chapter or from exercising their authority as law
enforcement officers.
(1995 Code, § 10-28) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.018 NEGLIGENCE PER SE.
   (A)   This section is included in this chapter in order to impose a public
duty upon persons having possession of animals to prevent those animals from
attacking another person due to a possible violation of the following sections:
 
Code Section Description
90.033       Aggression-trained dogs
90.040       Restraint of animals
90.042       Exotic or wild animals
90.074       Protective measures for containment of animals (failing to comply
             with instructions to impose preventive measures)
 
   (B)   Those persons having possession of animals have imposed upon them a
public duty designed to promote the safety of other persons, and a violation of
any of those sections listed in division (A) of this section is negligence per
se and could give rise to the recovery of damages for personal injuries in a
civil action by an injured person against the person owning or having
possession, charge, custody or control of the animal causing the injuries.
(1995 Code, § 10-30) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
CARE, CONTROL AND PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED ACTS
§ 90.030 ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, possessing or harboring an
animal to negligently or willfully abandon that animal.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, animals shall be considered
ABANDONED when the totality of the circumstances reasonably indicates that the
owner, possessor or harborer of the animal has negligently or willfully ceased
to provide basic necessities for the animal with the intention to no longer
care for the animal.
(1995 Code, § 10-51) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.031 ABUSE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful if a person negligently or willfully:
      (1)   Fails to provide adequate food and/or water for any animal he or
she owns, possesses or harbors;
      (2)   Overworks or overdrives any animal causing physical pain, suffering
or death;
      (3)   Beats, tortures, injures, torments, poisons or mutilates any animal
causing physical pain, suffering or death;
      (4)   Fails to provide adequate medical attention for any sick, diseased
or injured animal he or she owns, possesses or harbors;
      (5)   Keeps any animal under unsanitary or inhumane conditions which are
detrimental to the animal's health and general welfare or fails to maintain a
condition of good order and cleanliness which reduces the probability of
transmission of disease;
      (6)   Teases, molests or in any way bothers or harasses any animal;
      (7)   Sets any rabbit, hare, raccoon or other such animal loose for the
purpose of chasing, hunting or having a race thereafter;
      (8)   Promotes, stages, holds, manages, conducts, carries on or attends
any game, exhibition, contest, fight or combat between one or more animals or
between animals and humans;
      (9)   Fails to provide an adequate shelter for an animal he or she owns,
possesses, harbors or encloses, wherein the animal can be protected from
extremes of weather (heat, cold, rain and the like) and allowed to remain dry
and comfortable during inclement weather;
      (10)   Conveys any type of animal in a motor vehicle or in a wagon or
trailer pulled by a motor vehicle or in a truck or the back of a truck without
having the animal reasonably secured so as to prevent the animal from leaping
or being thrown from the vehicle or in such a way as to cause pain, suffering,
unreasonable discomfort or death to the animal;
      (11)   Places or confines an animal or allows an animal to be placed or
confined in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such a period of time
as to endanger the health or well-being of the animal due to temperature, lack
of food or drink, or other conditions as may reasonably be expected to cause
suffering, disability or death:
         (a)   After making a reasonable effort to find the driver of a vehicle
in which an animal is confined, an employee of the Bureau, in the presence of a
police officer, may use the least intrusive means to break and enter the
vehicle if necessary to remove the animal where probable cause exists to
believe that the animal is in the vehicle in violation of this division.
         (b)   The officer removing the animal shall then impound it and leave
in a prominent place on the motor vehicle a written notice of the animal's
impoundment, a brief description of the animal, and where and when the animal
may be reclaimed. In addition, the officer may also use any other enforcement
method authorized by §
90.017.
         (c)   So long as an animal is within sight of an employee of the
Bureau or a police officer, §
90.016 shall not be interpreted to require that any warrant be obtained before
removing the animal so long as the removal is otherwise consistent with the
United States Constitution.
      (12)   Fails to provide sufficient shade, when sunlight is likely to
cause overheating and discomfort, to allow all animals kept outdoors to protect
themselves from the direct rays of the sun; or
      (13)   Keeps animals outdoors without access to shelter to allow them to
remain dry and comfortable during, inclement weather.
   (B)   Convictions. If a person has been criminally convicted twice of a
violation of this section or of G.S. §§ 14-360, 14-361, 14-361.1, 14-362 or 14-
363 and any two such convictions have both occurred within the last five years
preceding a request by the person for an animal license or permit, the animal
license or permit request shall be refused. In that situation, the person shall
be eligible to apply for an animal license permit five years after the date of
the last criminal conviction.
   (C)   Euthanizing exception. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the Bureau or veterinarians from euthanizing dangerous, unwanted,
injured or diseased animals in a humane manner; nor to prohibit slaughterhouses
or medical facilities from the proper, humane and lawful carrying-out of their
activities or duties.
   (D)   Pet shops. Animal control officers shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of pet stores, to the extent not preempted by state law, in order
to determine if there is any abuse of animals. Pet shops shall also be subject
to the county ordinance for the control of rabies and other zoonoses as
administered and enforced by the County Health Department. Abuse of animals
shall include any act described in this section or any other act that is
detrimental to the well-being of the animal. It shall be unlawful for any pet
store employee or pet store owner to violate this section.
(1995 Code, § 10-52) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit the abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-182
   Protection of animals, see G.S. Chapter 19A
§ 90.032 ANIMAL BITE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or harborer of an animal
to negligently allow the animal to bite a human being, who does not ordinarily
reside on the premises, unless the animal has been subject to provocation, or
unless the victim has been trespassing, as defined in §
90.003.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or harborer of an
animal, or for the victim if the victim is reasonably physically able, to fail
to report to the Bureau or 911 as soon as possible that an animal has bitten a
person. It shall be unlawful for any person knowing the location of the animal
to fail to inform the Bureau of where the animal is located if the owner,
possessor or harborer has given the animal away or caused in any way the animal
to be taken from his or her premises.
   (C)   If the Bureau determines that a dog has bitten a human being, the
Bureau shall have the authority to require protective measures pursuant to §
90.074. The Bureau shall have the authority to require the owner to file with
the Bureau signed, written affidavits, and receipts where applicable, affirming
that any of the measures required by the Bureau have been and will continue to
be complied with. Any breach in compliance with these measures subjects the
animal to seizure and forfeiture as provided in §
90.071.
   (D)   The Bureau Manager shall have the authority to waive any or all of
these requirements if the Bureau Manager determines that the bite is
inconsequential.
(1995 Code, § 10-53) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.033 AGGRESSION-TRAINED DOGS.
   (A)   Authority of Bureau. The Bureau shall have the authority to determine
whether any individual or business entity is engaged in the aggression training
of dogs. If the Bureau makes such a determination, the individual or business
entity must comply with the requirements of division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Registration; confinement. Individuals or business entities engaged in
the aggression training of dogs or the owner, possessor or harborer of any
aggression-trained dog must comply with the following.
      (1)   The individual, business entity, owner, possessor or harborer has a
duty to provide registration information as required by the Bureau as it
pertains to aggression training of any kind of dogs.
      (2)   The individual or business entity has the duty to maintain a
current registration of all dogs thus trained, including the current location
or address of the dog, and that information shall be provided to the Bureau
upon the training of any such dogs.
      (3)   The Bureau shall have the authority to inspect the premises engaged
in aggression training and to observe training methods and the safety of
facilities during the operating hours of the aggression training facility.
      (4)   Aggression-trained dogs must be maintained in adequate confinement
by anyone possessing them in any way. The Bureau shall have the authority to
require all aggression-trained dogs to be confined in a strong fence at least
six feet high and, at the discretion of the Bureau, topped by an anticlimb
enclosure.
   (C)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any individual, business
entity, owner, possessor or harborer to fail to comply with any of the
requirements addressed to him or her by this section.
   (D)   Imposition of preventive measures. If the Bureau determines that a dog
has been aggression- trained or trained for fighting or aggressive attack, the
Bureau shall have the authority to impose the same requirements stated in §
90.074.
   (E)   Appeal. If the Bureau determines that a dog has been aggression-
trained, or trained for fighting or aggressive attack, and the owner wishes to
appeal that or the preventive measures imposed, the appeal shall be the same as
that stated in §
90.073.
(1995 Code, § 10-54) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.034 GUARD DOGS.
   (A)   License tag; signs. The owner, possessor or harborer of a guard dog
kept within the town for longer than is necessary to merely pass through the
town shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Identification. It shall be unlawful for a guard dog kept in the
town not to have a current guard dog license tag. This license tag will
supersede the need for any other town licensing tag. Before such a tag can be
issued, there must be proof of rabies inoculation of the dog.
      (2)   Signs. The owner, possessor, harborer or user of any guard dogs or
the owner of the premises employing the dogs must have posted on the premises a
sign that identifies the name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
security dogs.
   (B)   Escape. If a guard dog escapes and bites someone who is not a
trespasser, the Bureau Manager shall have the authority to prohibit that dog
from serving as a guard dog within the town. It shall be unlawful to use such a
dog as a guard dog after the Bureau Manager has ordered that the dog shall not
be used within the town as a guard dog.
   (C)   Enforcement. In addition to using any and all enforcement remedies
stated in §
90.017, the Bureau shall also have the following additional authority in
respect to security dogs.
      (1)   If any security dog is seized running at large, the dog shall not
be returned to the owner until the owner has obtained a guard dog license tag
for that dog and any other guard dogs used or to be used in the town in
accordance with division (A) of this section and is in complete compliance with
all the requirements of division (A) of this section.
      (2)   If a security dog is found on the premises without complying with
division (A) of this section, the Bureau Manager or his or her designee shall
have the authority to issue a notice of prohibition letter that will prohibit
the use of that dog as a security dog within the town, unless there is
compliance with all of division (A) of this section within 48 hours. Such a
notice of prohibition shall, at the same time, be given to the owner of the
premises upon which the security dog is utilized. The owner of the premises
shall be informed that the continued use of such a security dog on the premises
is an unlawful act on the part of the owner in violation of this section. If
such a dog remains on the premises after the 48 hours, it shall be an unlawful
act on the part of the owner of the dog and on the part of the owner of the
premises, and a citation may be issued to either or both of those individuals.
      (3)   The Bureau shall have the authority to seize guard dogs if there
has not been compliance with this division or for the safety of the public, all
in accordance with §
90.072.
(1995 Code, § 10-62) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.035 DANGEROUS, BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   DANGEROUS means any animal whose behavior, temperament, size, or
any combination thereof, when considered under the totality of the
circumstances, including the nature of the surrounding area, constitutes a
reasonable risk of injuring a human or animal or damaging personal or real
property. That behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal’s biting or
attacking or attempting to attack a human or another animal. However, this
definition shall not apply to any animal that has been subject to provocation
or if the victim has been trespassing, as defined in this section, upon the
animal owner’s premises.
      (2)   Animals identified as dangerous when kept outdoors shall be
constrained to the rear yard only within a solid fence enclosure of not less
than six feet in height and continuously maintained as to prevent escape of
said animals. Penalty shall be per violation and per day, see §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an animal that has bitten, attacked or
threatened a human or animal to remain at large. Animal control officers shall
have the authority to enter upon private property, including entry into a
dwelling unit or other similar building, when the animal control officer has
observed an animal which has committed the biting, attacking or threatening in
violation of this section. This entry upon private property shall not be deemed
to be a trespass. The entry is authorized so long as it is otherwise consistent
with the State and United States Constitutions.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, to threaten or to
otherwise prevent an animal control officer from carrying out and performing
his or her lawful duties under this section.
(1995 Code, § 10-57) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005; Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-12-
2015) Penalty, see §
90.071 unless otherwise specified
§ 90.036 ANIMALS AT TOWN-SPONSORED EVENTS.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having
possession, charge, custody or control of any animal, as defined in §
90.003, to take that animal, whether on a leash or not on a leash, into or
allow the animal to enter the boundaries of any town-sponsored public event
unless the event is specifically designated as exempt from this section due to
the event's nature by the Bureau Manager or designee. The boundaries and the
interior of a town-sponsored public event shall consist of any area that is
part of the event and shall include any public street, sidewalk or other
publicly owned area within that area.
   (B)   Failure to remove animal. It shall be unlawful for any person with an
animal within the boundaries of a town-sponsored public event to fail to obey
the command of a law enforcement officer or of an animal control officer to
remove the animal from the event.
   (C)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Those animals that are part of an authorized event exhibit. The
Bureau Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to specify the
conditions for having the animals for the protection of the public and for the
well-being of the animals; or
      (2)   Guide dogs.
(1995 Code, § 10-61) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.037 INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally strike an animal
with an automobile or other vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring or killing a domestic
animal by striking it with an automobile or other vehicle to fail to notify the
owner of the animal, if identification of the animal is available, or the
Bureau if no identification is possible.
(1995 Code, § 10-63) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.038 NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or a nuisance to
neighbors. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions of an owner, harborer or possessor of an animal are hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and are, therefore, unlawful:
      (1)   Having an animal that disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety
of or injures a member of the general public or interferes with the ordinary
use and enjoyment of his or her property;
      (2)   Permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone other than
its owner, including but not limited to turning over garbage containers or
damaging gardens, flowers or vegetables;
      (3)   Maintaining animals in an environment of unsanitary conditions or
lack of cleanliness which results in offensive odor or is dangerous to the
public health, welfare or safety, or failing to maintain a condition of good
order and cleanliness which reduces the probability of transmission of disease;
      (4)   Maintaining property that is offensive, annoying or dangerous to
the public health, safety or welfare of the community because of the number,
type, variety, density or location of the animals on the property;
      (5)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl, crow, cackle
or cause noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion so as to
interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises;
      (6)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the public
health;
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, attacks or barks at pedestrians, joggers, dogs walked on a leash by owners,
bicycles or vehicles;
      (8)   Failing to confine a female dog or cat while in season in a
building or secure enclosure in such a manner that she cannot come into contact
with another dog or cat or creates a nuisance by attracting other animals.
However, this division (A)(8) shall not be construed to prohibit the
intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed, concealed area on the
premises of the owner of an animal which is being bred; or
      (9)   Failing to remove feces deposited by a dog on any public street,
sidewalk, gutter, park or other publicly owned property or private property
unless the owner of the property has given permission allowing that use of the
property. This division shall not apply to visually impaired persons who have
charge, control or use of guide dogs or persons using dogs in conjunction with
activities of the Town Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of anyone reporting an alleged nuisance under
this section to reveal his or her identity to the Bureau or the investigating
law enforcement agency. Anonymous reports of alleged nuisances under this
section shall not be investigated solely on the basis of the anonymous report.
   (C)   In addition to any other enforcement remedies available under this
chapter, if the Bureau Manager shall declare an animal a nuisance under this
section, the Bureau Manager has the authority to order the owner to confine the
animal in accordance with §
90.074. It shall be unlawful for the owner to fail to comply with the order or
with the instructions in the order.
(1995 Code, § 10-64) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.039 RECKLESS RIDING OR DRIVING OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to run, drive or ride any animal
in a reckless, disorderly or careless manner through any street, alley or
highway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven
through any street or highway any loose or unhaltered horse, mule, cow or other
livestock; nor shall the keeper of any such animal knowingly permit any loose
horse, mule or cow to be driven from his or her property onto streets, alleys
or highways.
(1995 Code, § 10-65) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.040 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Physical restraint. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
having possession, charge, custody or control of any animal, excluding cats, to
keep the animal on his or her own premises or off the premises, unless the
animal is under sufficient physical restraint, such as a leash, cage, bridle or
similar effective device which restrains and controls the animal, or within a
vehicle or adequately contained by a fence on the premises or other secure
enclosure. If the physical restraint used is a leash, bridle or other device
requiring a person to control the animal, the person using the restraint must
be of sufficient age and physical size or ability to reasonably restrain the
animal. If the secure enclosure is an invisible fence system, then all
components of the system must be in working order and in proper place.
Additionally, there must be a visible, permanent sign on the premises stating
that there is an invisible fence.
   (B)   Front and side yard area. The keeping of animals within any front yard
area especially by rope, wire, leash, cage or similar shall be prohibited. The
same shall be prohibited in the side yard area unless behind a minimum six foot
high solid fence that is part of a similarly fenced rear yard area. Penalty
shall be per violation and per day, see §
10.99.
   (C)   Adult with animal on premises. If, a responsible adult is physically
outdoors, and immediately adjacent to the animal, on the land where the owner
of the animal resides, and the animal is under the person’s direct control and
is obedient to that person’s commands, this section shall not apply during the
duration of the time the animal is in the company and under the control of that
adult and the animal is on the premises. An ADULT is defined as a person 18
years of age or older.
   (D)   Public parks. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having
possession, charge, custody or control of any dog to take the dog into or allow
the dog to enter any public park without being at all times under the restraint
of a leash that has a maximum extension length of six feet. This shall apply to
all public parks except while in designated off-leash areas, in accordance with
the rules and regulations pertaining to the off-leash areas. This division (D)
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Parks that have been designated as leash-free parks by the
governmental agency responsible for the park;
      (2)   Guide and hearing-aid dogs that are in the company of blind or deaf
persons or being trained for those purposes; and
      (3)   Dogs employed or hired by law enforcement agencies or by the
governmental agency responsible for the park to perform a governmental purpose
within the park.
(1995 Code, § 10-66) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005; Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-12-
2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.041 HARBORING STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the actual consent of the
owner, to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise have any
animal which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24
hours of the time the animal came into his or her possession, notified the
Bureau. Upon receiving the notice, the Bureau may take the animal and deal with
it as provided in §
90.070.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender such an
animal to an employee of the Bureau upon demand.
(1995 Code, § 10-68) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.042 EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Unlawful act. lt shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain,
possess or have under his or her control within the town any venomous reptile
or any other wild or exotic animal.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to lawfully operated and
located pet shops, zoological gardens, scientific research laboratories,
circuses, veterinarians harboring the animals for purposes of providing
professional medical treatment, wildlife rehabilitators with proper permits, or
exhibitors licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture displaying
the animals for educational purposes, provided that the animals are maintained
in a manner so as to prevent escape.
   (C)   Permits not authorized; effects of annexation. Permits for the keeping
or maintenance of wild or exotic animals are not authorized. Persons in newly
annexed areas have 30 days from the date of annexation to comply with this
section.
   (D)   Compliance with state and federal regulations and safe confinement.
The confinement of exotic or wild animals exempted from division (A) of this
section by division (B) of this section must meet the regulations promulgated
by the State Wildlife Commission, the minimum standards under the Animal
Welfare Act, being G.S. §§ 19A-20 et seq. and all applicable rules promulgated
by the United States Department of Agriculture. In addition to meeting these
minimum standards, all the venomous reptiles and all the wild or exotic animals
shall be confined, restrained or controlled in such a manner so that the
physical safety or property of any person lawfully entering the premises shall
not be endangered.
   (E)   Presence on public rights-of-way. Animals described under division (A)
of this section but exempt under division (B) of this section shall not be
allowed on any public street, sidewalk or other public way, except in a fully
enclosed cage or adequate structural restraint. The use of a leash, with or
without a muzzle, shall not be considered adequate restraint. Exempt from this
division are animals that are part of a featured performance at a special event
with a town festival or parade permit where the animal handler is licensed by
the United States Department of Agriculture.
(1995 Code, § 10-70) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSING AND PERMITS
§ 90.055 LICENSE AND RABIES TAGS AND FEES.
   (A)   License. It shall be unlawful for any dog, cat or ferret owner,
possessor or harborer who resides in the town to fail to provide his or her
dog, cat or ferret over four months of age with a current license tag. The
owner, possessor or harborer of any above-described animal must have his or her
animal vaccinated and must have a current rabies vaccination tag showing that
the animals have been vaccinated. No license will be issued unless proof of
inoculation is shown. Any dog, cat or ferret owner, possessor or harborer who
moves into the town for the purpose of establishing residency, or who becomes a
resident as a result of annexation, shall have 30 days in which to obtain a
license from the county.
   (B)   License fee.
      (1)   Licenses shall be renewed annually from the date of issuance,
except for sterile dogs or cats, which may have a three-year renewal term. The
failure of any owner to renew a license by the thirtieth calendar day after the
license is due for renewal shall result in an additional $10 late renewal fee.
The license fee for all dogs, guard dogs, cats and ferrets shall be paid in
accordance with the county regulations and fee schedule.
      (2)   Any owner of an animal who can furnish a statement from a licensed
veterinarian that the animal, due to health reasons, could not withstand spay/
neuter surgery, shall be charged at the sterile rate.
      (3)   Any owner of one or more purebred dogs or cats who can furnish
proof of participation in at least three nationally recognized conformation or
obedience shows within the past 12 months shall be charged at the sterile rate.
The exemption rate only applies to the dogs or cats in the owner's household of
the same breed that were shown. Proof of participation must go beyond records
showing that a filing fee was paid, and the owner must validate the actual
showing of the animal.
      (4)   Any animal owner 62 years of age or older who owns a sterilized
animal may receive his or her license free of charge.
      (5)   Any disabled owner of a dog which is used for seeing or hearing
purposes and is spayed or neutered shall obtain a license free of charge.
      (6)   Any governmental agency that owns, for a governmental purpose, an
animal subject to licensing shall obtain its license free of charge.
   (C)   Guard dog license. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner, possessor
or harborer to bring a dog into the town to function as a guard dog without
first obtaining a town guard dog license. The license will supercede the normal
dog license required by division (A) above.
   (D)   Rabies inoculation. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns,
possesses or harbors a dog, cat or ferret not to have the animal inoculated
against rabies.
   (E)   Rabies tag. It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or harborer
of any dog or cat in the town not to have the dog or cat wear the rabies
vaccination tag issued to them by the veterinarian administering the rabies
vaccine. It shall be unlawful for the owner, possessor or harborer of any
ferret in the town not to have in the owner's possession the rabies vaccination
tag issued to that person by the veterinarian administering the rabies
vaccination. Dogs and cats not wearing these tags, and for which the owner
cannot promptly display a valid rabies tag, may be impounded pursuant to §
90.070.
   (F)   Reclaim. If the Bureau has lawfully acquired custody or control of an
animal and the Bureau has probable cause to believe that the animal does not
have the lawfully required inoculation against rabies, then the Bureau shall
have the authority to inoculate the animal against rabies. The owner, possessor
or harborer of the animal shall not have the right to reclaim the animal until
the owner, possessor or harborer has paid the town for the cost of the rabies
inoculation.
(1995 Code, § 10-55) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to levy an annual license tax on the privilege of
keeping domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-212
§ 90.056 ANIMAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have or
maintain any equine animals, cloven-hoofed animals or other livestock or any
chickens, turkeys, ducks, guineas, geese, pheasants, pigeons or other domestic
fowl in the town without first receiving from the town a permit to do so, or to
continue to have any of the animals or fowl after a permit has been denied. Any
potentially dangerous wild or invasive animal or insect is strictly prohibited.
All animals kept outdoors shall be provided sturdy and humane protection from
the elements. Any minimum space or shelter requirements shall be per individual
animal. This section shall not apply to, and no permit shall be required for,
any agricultural operation within G.S. § 106-700, which pertains to nuisance
liability of agricultural operation, or to any rabbit that is kept exclusively
inside its owner’s residence. The permit shall be valid for one calendar year
and shall be renewed annually. The annual fee for the permit shall be per
household and shall be $10. The application shall list all of these animals and
fowl on the premises. Before a permit is issued, an employee of the town shall
inspect the premises to determine if the keeping of the animals or fowl on the
premises will endanger or is likely to endanger the health, safety, peace,
quiet, comfort, enjoyment of or otherwise become a public nuisance to nearby
residents or occupants or places of business, and report the findings to the
town designee.
   (B)   Denial. When a permit is denied for any reason, the applicant shall be
given a written explanation of the reason for denial.
   (C)   Compliance required prior to issuance. An owner or possessor of the
animals or fowl shall comply and maintain all local, state, and federal
regulations before a permit is issued. Compliance with the following applicable
divisions will create a rebuttable presumption that a permit shall be issued.
That presumption may only be rebutted by specific findings supported by
competent evidence that, despite compliance with the following, the presence of
the animals or fowl is still likely to endanger the health, safety, peace,
quiet, comfort, enjoyment of or otherwise become a public nuisance to nearby
residents or occupants or places of business.
      (1)   Fowl and other specifically identified animals. The keeping of
chickens, turkeys, ducks, guineas, geese, pheasants or other domestic fowl or
rabbits shall be in compliance with the following.
         (a)   The animals must be confined on site within a fence or similar
enclosure located in the side or rear yard only, at all times.
         (b)   The coop or fowl house must be used for fowl only and the hutch
for rabbits only, be well ventilated, provide shelter from the weather, and be
not less than 18 inches in height.
         (c)   The coop, fowl house or hutch shall have a minimum of four
square feet of floor area for each fowl or rabbit.
         (d)   The run must be well drained so there is no accumulation of
moisture. The property shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from accumulation
of animal excrement and objectionable odors.
         (e)   The coop, fowl house or hutch shall be cleaned daily, and all
droppings and body excretion shall be placed in a flyproof container and
properly disposed of so as to eliminate buildup of odors or harbor pests.
         (f)   The coop, fowl house or hutch shall be a minimum of 25 feet from
any property line.
         (g)   No more than 20 such fowl or rabbits shall be kept or maintained
per acre. The number of fowl or rabbits should be proportionate to the acreage.
      (2)   Pigeons. Pigeons, while allowed to fly to and from the premises,
must be provided with adequate space on the premises, and sanitary conditions
must be maintained.
      (3)   Cloven-hoofed animals. The keeping of cloven-hoofed animals,
equines and other livestock shall be in compliance with the following.
         (a)   The animals must be provided with adequate shelter to protect
them from the elements.
         (b)   The shelter shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from
accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors.
         (c)   The shelters for cows and other large livestock shall be kept at
a minimum of 75 feet from any property line. The shelters for goats, pot-
bellied pigs and other small livestock shall be kept at a minimum of 25 feet
from any property line.
         (d)   Each cow or other large livestock, including equines, shall have
a minimum clear grassy pasture area of two acres. Each goat, sheep or other
small livestock shall have a minimum clear grassy pasture area of one-fourth
acre.
      (4)   Slaughter. Any slaughter of any livestock or poultry not regulated
by state law or otherwise allowed or regulated shall be done only in a humane
and sanitary manner and shall not be done open in view of any public area or
adjacent property owned by another.
      (5)   Annexation. An owner or possessor of animals on property that is
newly annexed has 90 days from the date of annexation to bring the property
into compliance and to have obtained permits required by this section.
      (6)   Exceptions. A permit shall not be required for animals of any kind
if the animals are kept by a governmental authority or other appropriately
certified and recognized academic institution, museum, raptor center and the
like.
   (D)   Revocation.
      (1)   The town may revoke any permit:
         (a)   When the permit has been mistakenly issued without compliance
with this section;
         (b)   When the applicant has submitted false information;
         (c)   When the applicant refuses to allow inspections for compliance;
         (d)   For a violation of any of the sections of this chapter;
         (e)   When, in the opinion of the Town Administrator or his or her
designee, the health, safety or welfare of any person or property is menaced by
the keeping of the animals; or
         (f)   When the animals become a nuisance.
      (2)   If a permit is revoked, the applicant shall be given a written
explanation of the reasons for the revocation. Upon the termination of a
violation of this section, and if the violation pertains to a correctable
condition on the property, the owner shall have 30 days in which to bring the
property or condition into compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Penalty shall be $50 per violation and/or $50 per day for
violations not corrected after the due date.
(1995 Code, § 10-95) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005; Ord. 2012-04, passed 10-9-
2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.057 PERMIT FOR THREE OR MORE DOGS OR CATS KEPT OUTSIDE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, to keep custody of or to
take care of three or more dogs or cats or any combination of three dogs and
cats or more, four months or older, which are frequently outside on the
premises, unless the person has a permit issued by the town. All applicable
regulations in this chapter and §
90.056 apply.
   (B)   Three or more dogs or cats that remain outdoors for the majority of
time must be kept in a fenced side or rear yard and provided sturdy and humane
shelter from the weather.
   (C)   (1)   If a person has three or more dogs or cats frequently outside on
the premises, the Town Administrator or his or her designee must make the
following five findings in order to issue a permit:
         (a)   Noise from the dogs or cats will not interfere with an abutting
occupant’s use and peaceful enjoyment of the property;
         (b)   Any odor or unsanitary conditions caused by the dogs or cats
will not interfere with an abutting occupant’s use and peaceful enjoyment of
the property;
         (c)   Dogs or cats must be flea and tick free and not pose any health
problem or disease exposure for abutting occupants or their animals; and
         (d)   The dogs or cats do not interfere in some other similar manner
with the peaceful use and enjoyment of abutting property.
      (2)   If the town designee denies a person a special permit, the town
designee must state the reasons for the denial in writing.
   (D)   The fee for a permit will be set by the Town Administrator or his or
her designee and a permit shall remain valid as long as the person is in
compliance with the terms and conditions, if any, of the permit. If any of the
circumstances change, such as but not limited to more animals, different breed
for a particular dog, new structures or other similar change that might
reasonably violate the five standards set forth in division (B) of this
section, the permit shall automatically terminate and be null and void. The
person must secure a new permit, or the person shall be in violation of this
section.
   (E)   The town designee shall have the authority to revoke the permit at any
time if there is a violation of the standards stated in division (B) of this
section, for a violation of any term or condition of the permit if there has
been any misrepresentation, or for any other similar reason. The town designee
shall state in writing the basis of the revocation.
(1995 Code, § 10-97) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005; Ord. 2012-04, passed 10-9-
2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.058 APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any person who is denied a permit or has a permit revoked under §§
90.056 and
90.057 shall have the right to appeal the denial or revocation to the office of
the Town Administrator. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state the
basis of the appeal. The written appeal must be filed with the Town Clerk
within ten days after the notice of denial or revocation of the permit is given
to the appellant by the Bureau. The notice shall be considered given to the
appellant when a notice letter with adequate postage and properly addressed to
the last mailing address provided to the Bureau by the person is placed in the
United States mail or when personal notice is given to the person, whichever
occurs first. The appellant, in addition to filing the appeal with the Town
Clerk, shall also file a copy of the appeal letter with the Bureau Manager.
Upon receipt of a proper appeal, the Town Administrator or his or her
representative shall conduct a hearing to determine if the permit should be
denied or revoked. A properly filed appeal shall not affect the denial of a
permit unless and until such time as the Town Administrator or his or her
representative overturns the denial. A properly filed appeal shall toll the
revocation of an existing permit until a decision is entered on the appeal by
the Town Administrator or his or her representative.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.059 NONRESIDENT EXCEPTIONS.
   The sections of this chapter requiring certain animals to be licensed or
permitted shall not apply to those animals owned by, in the charge of or under
the care of nonresidents of this town who are traveling through or temporarily
sojourning in the town for a period not exceeding 30 days. The licensing
sections shall not apply to animals temporarily brought into this town for the
exclusive purpose of entering animals in a show or other exhibition. These
exemptions do not apply to nonresidents of the town who bring dogs into the
town for guard-dog purposes.
(1995 Code, § 10-98) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
IMPOUNDMENT, SEIZURE/FORFEITURE, CONTAINMENT, SPAY/NEUTER SERVICES AND
DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS
§ 90.070 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any domesticated or exotic animal that is found to be unowned or to be
in violation of any provision of this chapter is subject to immediate
impoundment if the animal's owner is nonexistent, unknown, or found to be
unavailable after a reasonable attempt to identify, locate and/or notify the
animal's owner has been made. Any animal that is so impounded shall be held by
the Bureau for three working days, excluding the day of impoundment.
   (B)   If the owner of the animal appears during the three-day holding
period, the owner may redeem the animal by paying the applicable impoundment
and boarding fee, any and all outstanding civil citations that may have been
issued pursuant to a violation of this chapter, and also by bringing the animal
into full compliance with all provisions of this chapter and any applicable
state law. The animal shall not be released to the owner until the owner has
fully complied with the above requirements. The owner shall have ten calendar
days from when he or she first appears and claims the animal in which to
accomplish this compliance and redeem the animal. The owner shall be
responsible for a boarding fee for the entire time the animal is held by the
Bureau. Failure to do so shall result in the forfeiture of the animal to the
Bureau. The Bureau Manager may grant a time extension to any owner actively
attempting to redeem his or her animal.
   (C)   Any animal for which no owner appears within the three-day holding
period shall be deemed abandoned and shall be forfeited to the Bureau.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Bureau from seizing and/or
forfeiting an impounded animal pursuant to any other provision of this chapter
or state law.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.071 SEIZURE, FORFEITURE AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Authority to seize and forfeit animals. In addition to any other
authority or procedure authorized by this chapter or by any other law to seize
an animal, the Bureau shall have the authority to summarily seize and forfeit
to the Bureau any animal when the Bureau determines that there is probable
cause to believe that the animal:
      (1)   Under the totality of the circumstances, is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public safety or public health and the Bureau has issued a
probable cause notice on the animal (dangerous animals);
      (2)   Is the subject of a violation of the following sections of this
chapter:
Code Section Violation
Code Section Violation
90.030       Abandoned animals
90.031       Abuse of animals
90.032       Animal bite
90.035       Biting or attacking animals
90.038       Nuisance
90.040       Restraint of animals
90.055       License and rabies tags and fees
90.057       Permit for three or more dogs or cats kept outside
90.078       Uncared-for animals
 
      (3)   Is the subject of a violation of this chapter that is punishable by
escalating civil penalties under §
90.017 and the escalated penalty appropriate to the specific violation includes
seizure of the animal (civil).
   (B)   Procedure. The procedures by which the seizures and forfeitures shall
be accomplished shall be in accordance with subsequent sections as follows:
      (1)   Dangerous animal seizures made pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in §
90.072.
      (2)   Seizures made pursuant to divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this
section shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set out in §
90.073.
(1995 Code, § 10-121) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.072 DANGEROUS ANIMAL SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Probable cause notice required. No animal shall be seized on the basis
that it is dangerous or prejudicial to the public safety or public health
without the prior issuance of a probable cause notice. This limitation shall
not prohibit seizure based on other lawful authority, nor the subsequent
issuance of a probable cause notice for an animal otherwise seized or
impounded.
   (B)   Probable cause notice. Probable cause notices may only be issued by a
person of supervisory rank with the Bureau.
      (1)   The probable cause notice shall state the following:
         (a)   The specific facts constituting probable cause for declaring the
animal dangerous;
         (b)   That a prompt hearing to determine whether or not the animal is
dangerous shall be held as soon as possible;
         (c)   That anyone in possession of the animal shall immediately turn
the animal over to the Bureau; and
         (d)   If the animal's owner is known, the probable cause notice shall
also order the owner to immediately contact the Bureau and shall state the
manner in which the Bureau may be contacted.
      (2)   The Bureau shall notify the owner as soon as reasonably possible of
the probable cause notice if the owner is known. If the owner is unknown, the
Bureau shall make reasonable efforts to determine who the owner is and try to
notify the owner. If any Bureau employee has any communication with the Bureau
Manager about a particular case regarding a suspected dangerous animal, that
employee shall keep a written report of the date and the content of any such
communication.
   (C)   Owner's duties. The owner shall turn the animal over to the Bureau
immediately upon receiving a probable cause notice. The Bureau shall have the
authority to seize immediately any animal for which a probable cause notice has
been issued. It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a premises to
fail to give an animal to the Bureau immediately upon the presentment of a
probable cause notice.
   (D)   Authority to permit animal to remain on premises. The supervisor who
issued the probable cause notice shall have the authority to authorize that an
animal may remain on the premises or elsewhere prior to the seizure/forfeiture
hearing if the supervisor is satisfied that the animal's confinement shall be
adequate for protecting the public and for the well-being of the animal. The
supervisor who allows the animal to remain without seizure shall order the
animal to be kept adequately confined and shall issue a containment order in
compliance with §
90.074. A failure of the animal to be kept so confined shall result in the
immediate seizure of the animal. The Bureau shall always have the authority to
summarily seize an animal after the probable cause notice has been delivered
and before the seizure hearing.
   (E)   Request for hearing. The owner of an animal subject to a probable
cause notice shall have the right to a hearing to determine whether the animal
shall be declared dangerous as defined in this chapter. The owner of the animal
shall request a hearing by submitting a written request during normal working
hours to the Bureau within ten working days after the delivery of the probable
cause notice or all reasonable efforts to deliver (delivery) the probable cause
notice to the owner.
   (F)   Failure to request hearing. If the owner fails to properly file a
timely request for a hearing with the Bureau, the Bureau Manager shall
determine whether the animal is dangerous. The standard to be applied is
whether, by a preponderance of the evidence, the animal is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public safety or public health. The Bureau Manager shall
make findings of fact to support the determination, and the determination shall
be conclusive. The Bureau Manager may dispose of the animal as provided for in
divisions (I) and (J) of this section. If the Bureau Manager, due to a conflict
of interest or any other circumstance, is unable to make the determination, the
Bureau Manager or the Chief of Police shall appoint a person to make the
determination.
   (G)   Hearing. Upon a proper and timely request, a hearing shall be held.
The supervisor who issued the probable cause notice or his or her designee
shall present whatever relevant evidence the supervisor has that the animal
should be declared dangerous. The owner shall be entitled to present whatever
relevant evidence the owner wishes and to have legal representation. All
testimony before the hearing officer shall be sworn testimony. The entirety of
the hearing shall be recorded. If physical evidence is presented by either
side, the hearing officer shall have the evidence photographed as part of the
record and shall describe the item fully for the record.
   (H)   Bureau Manager as hearing officer. The Bureau Manager shall be the
hearing officer and shall conduct the hearing to determine whether the animal
shall be declared dangerous or not. The Bureau Manager shall not function as
the hearing officer if there is any conflict of interest or the appearance
thereof. The Bureau Manager shall determine whether it is necessary for the
Bureau Manager to withdraw as a possible hearing officer, in which event the
hearing officer shall be designated by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee. The Bureau Manager shall disclose any facts, knowledge or any
information known by the Bureau Manager regarding the particular situation for
the record at the very beginning of the hearing. The Bureau Manager shall
respond to any questions about any past knowledge about the particular
situation. The appellant shall have the right to state for the record any
specific findings of fact about the particular situation that the appellant
believes precludes the Bureau Manager from conducting an impartial hearing of
the case.
   (I)   Decision and written orders. 
      (1)   The standard to be applied is whether, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the animal is dangerous or prejudicial to the public safety or public
health. The hearing officer's decision shall be supported by specific findings
of fact and specific conclusions based upon the findings of fact. The Bureau
Manager, if the Bureau Manager acts as hearing officer over the objections of
the appellant, shall make specific findings of fact and conclusions regarding
the objections for that particular case. All findings of fact must be supported
by competent and material evidence in the record and must be included in the
record.
      (2)   The hearing officer shall issue a written order based on his or her
decision. The written order shall declare whether the animal is found to be
dangerous or prejudicial to the public safety or public health or non-
dangerous. If the animal is found to be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
safety or public health, the hearing officer shall have the authority to
terminate the owner's ownership rights in the animal and to dispose of the
animal in accordance with this division, or the hearing officer may suspend the
termination of ownership rights conditioned upon the owner's compliance with
such terms as the hearing officer deems necessary to ensure that the animal may
be kept by the owner in safety. If the terms are part of a written order
suspending seizure/forfeiture, the terms and the written order shall comply
with the requirements of §
90.074. The Bureau Manager shall have the authority to modify the terms when it
is necessary to ensure the safety of the public. The termination of ownership
rights may be invoked upon the failure to comply with any of the terms.
      (3)   Written orders shall include the following statements:
         (a)   Whether the animal is dangerous and prejudicial to the public
safety or health or non-dangerous (if non-dangerous, nothing further is
required);
         (b)   That the Bureau has the authority to terminate ownership rights
of the animal and to order the humane destruction of the animal;
         (c)   Whether the ownership rights are being presently terminated or
if the termination is suspended;
         (d)   If the termination is suspended, the terms and conditions on
which the termination is suspended in compliance with §
90.074;
         (e)   That a failure to comply with the written order could result in
termination of ownership rights and humane destruction of the animal; and
         (f)   That any appeal to the superior court of the hearing officer's
decision must be filed within 30 days.
   (J)   Disposition of animal. The Bureau Manager shall have the discretion to
dispose of any animal forfeited to the Bureau under this section in one of only
two specific ways:
      (1)   By humane destruction of the animal; or
      (2)   By giving the animal to an individual or an organization subject to
the protective and inspection conditions required by the Bureau Manager for the
well-being of the animal, for the protection of the public and for the purpose
of preserving and taking care of the animal. The conditions shall reserve the
Bureau's right to seize and humanely destroy the animal upon any failure to
comply with the conditions. An animal declared to be dangerous by the Bureau
Manager shall not be disposed of for research or experimental purposes.
   (K)   Appeal to superior court. The decision of the Bureau Manager or of the
Town Manager or his or her designee shall be subject to review by the superior
court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any petition for writ of
certiorari for review by the superior court shall be filed with the clerk of
superior court within 30 days after delivery of or reasonable efforts to
deliver the decision to the owner or the owner's representative. Prior to the
filing of the petition for writ of certiorari with the clerk of superior court,
a cash bond must be provided to the town for all costs incurred thus far by the
town's retention of the animal and for an approximate time for the course of
the appeal, as well as for the cost of the transcript prepared for the court.
The town shall reimburse the petitioner for the cost of the petitioner's
transcript and the court's transcript if the court reverses the decision and
determines that the animal is not dangerous. If a petition for writ of
certiorari is filed in superior court, the animal shall be confined at the
animal shelter or at a location solely acceptable to the Bureau. Appeal shall
not toll compliance with any written or containment order pending the hearing
of the appeal.
(1995 Code, § 10-58) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.073 GENERAL SEIZURE/FORFEITURE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applicability. When an animal has been or shall be seized pursuant to
§
90.071(A)(2) and (A)(3), the procedures in this section shall be followed.
   (B)   Manner of seizure. The actual act of seizing the animal shall be done
in any manner consistent with state law and the United States Constitution.
   (C)   Notice and holding period. The Bureau shall conduct reasonable efforts
to identify, locate and notify the animal's owner. The animal shall be held
three working days, excluding the day of seizure, from the date notice is sent
to the owner or from the date of seizure if the owner cannot be identified or
located after reasonable efforts to do so. The notice, if sent, shall include
the following statements:
      (1)   An order to the animal's owner to contact the Bureau immediately;
      (2)   A brief statement of the date, location and reason for the seizure
of the animal;
      (3)   A statement that the animal is subject to forfeiture and humane
destruction within three working days from the date the notice was sent;
      (4)   A statement that a hearing will be held, at the owner's request, to
determine if the animal shall be forfeited; and
      (5)   A statement of the methods by which the owner may contact the
Bureau.
   (D)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held if the owner has contacted the Bureau
within the three days and requested a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted
in the same manner and with the same remedies and consequences as those set out
in §
90.072. If the violation that is the basis of the seizure is found by the
preponderance of the evidence to have occurred, the hearing officer shall have
the authority to order the same remedies available in §
90.072(I) and (J). However, if a forfeiture is ordered, the animal may be
placed for general adoption to the public if it is healthy, non-aggressive, and
has not bitten. If the animal's owner fails to contact the Bureau and request a
hearing within the three days after the notice is sent, the animal shall be
forfeited to the Bureau.
   (E)   Appeal. Appeal from a determination under this section shall be
conducted in compliance with §
90.072(K).
(Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.074 PROTECTIVE MEASURES FOR CONTAINMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)    Circumstances requiring special preventive measures. The Bureau shall
have the authority to require the owner or custodian of an animal to comply
with specific preventive measures, as described in division (B) of this
section, whenever the Bureau has the authority to seize the animal for possible
forfeiture or when otherwise authorized by this chapter. Preventive measures
shall only be ordered after taking into consideration the totality of the
circumstances, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Nature of the particular animal. The behavior, size, temperament,
breed, capacity for inflicting serious injury, number of animals or other
similar factors that would be relevant to a determination of whether preventive
measures need to be imposed for a particular situation;
      (2)   Adequacy of confinement. The adequacy of the current enclosure or
confinement, if any;
      (3)   Immediate surrounding area. The likelihood that the conditions
pertaining to the particular animal and the animal's confinement are
detrimental to the safety or welfare of citizens or the peace and tranquility
of citizens in the immediate surrounding area; and
      (4)   History and ability. The history of the animal and the animal's
owner in compliance or noncompliance with this chapter as well as the owner's
ability to adequately restrain the animal when viewed in light of all relevant
factors.
   (B)   Preventive measures. If the Bureau determines that the circumstances
require special preventive measures, the Bureau shall have the authority to
require the following:
      (1)   Appropriate, specific preventive measures which might include but
are not limited to the following: necessary repairs for any fence or enclosure,
measures to ensure that a gate will remain closed, a fence or secure fence as
described in this division or any other similar device that would provide
greater assurance for the confinement of the animal, all of which are subject
to being specifically approved for their adequacy by the Bureau. A fence shall
be at least a minimum of four feet high and shall constitute a secure-enough
enclosure sufficient to contain the animal at all times. The minimum size of
the enclosure may be at least 150 square feet. If the animal is over 15 inches
at the shoulder or is deemed capable of climbing a standard four-foot fence,
the animal control supervisor may require a six-foot fence. A SECURE FENCE
means a fence, as immediately described above, that may also be enclosed on all
six sides, including the top. The bottom must be concrete, unless the sides of
the fence are buried one foot deep in a hard-packed soil. Any reference to
"fence" or "secure fence" shall be defined as stated in this section.
Preventative measures may also specifically include mandatory spay/neuter for
any animal that as been declared dangerous by the Bureau;
      (2)   The owner to tattoo, or electronically tag, the animal at the
owner's expense if that is necessary for identification investigative or
enforcement purposes; and
      (3)   The owner to procure liability insurance in the amount of at least
$ 100,000 at the owner's expense or to have the animal tattooed or to display a
sign on the premises warning of the animal on the premises. The Bureau shall
have the authority to require the owner to show signed, written statements
about maintaining the liability insurance, the designated enclosure for the
animal and the duty to notify the Animal Control Bureau, if the animal escapes,
and to require the owner to give the Bureau the authority to seize and impound
the animal if the owner fails to comply with this division.
   (C)   Containment order. If the Bureau determines that specific preventive
measures must be complied with by the owner of an animal, the Bureau shall make
reasonable efforts to notify the owner of the containment order. All
containment orders shall be in writing and shall state the reasons that
preventive measures are required, shall identify the specific preventive
measures that must be implemented, and shall state the designated time period
within which to comply with the containment order. The Bureau shall have the
authority to exercise discretion for extensions of time if that is reasonable
in view of the good-faith progress of the owner in implementing the preventive
measures.
   (D)   Failure to comply with containment order. It shall be unlawful for an
owner to fail to comply with a containment order within the designated time for
compliance stated in the written order or any extension thereof. The penalty
for a willful failure to comply with a containment order shall be a civil
penalty in accordance with §
90.017 or seizure/forfeiture of the animal in accordance with §§
90.017 and
90.073.
   (E)   Owner's challenge to containment order. The owner may submit in
writing a challenge to the Bureau's determination that division (A) of this
section is applicable to the owner's premises or submit in writing a challenge
to the specific preventive measures required by the Bureau. The challenge must
comply with all of the requirements as for a request for hearing as set out in
§
90.072. A challenge that meets those requirements shall be heard in the same
manner and with the same appeal to superior court as set out in §
90.072. The hearing officer shall review the containment order under the
standards of this section but shall follow the process for the hearing as set
out in §
90.072. If the animal has been seized and the owner wishes to appeal the
seizure and potential forfeiture as well as challenge the containment order,
both matters may be addressed in the same hearing.
(1995 Code, § 10-67) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.075 FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The Bureau shall charge and collect fees from owners or
possessors who redeem their animals. The following services and fees for those
services are hereby authorized.
      (1)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to
establish a fee schedule for the following services and categories.
         (a)   Impounding. Any animal that is taken into custody by the Bureau
pursuant to this code or state statute.
         (b)   Boarding. Dog per day, cat per day, large animals (e.g.,
equines, bovines, sheep, goat, swine and the like) per day, small animals
(e.g., rabbits, birds, poultry, hamsters and the like) per day. Any animal not
deemed to fit in a particular enumerated category shall be considered a large
animal.
         (c)   Adoption. Large animals; dog, puppy, cat or other small animal;
pick up a special service fee; replacement fee for metal tags.
         (d)   Electronic tagging. The Bureau is hereby authorized to, and may
without the consent of the animal's owner or possessor, humanely implant any
animal lawfully impounded with an electronic tagging device similar to a micro-
chip that will allow the animal to be positively identified. The cost shall be
deferred by the owner or possessor prior to the animal being released back into
his or her custody.
      (2)   The fees shall be reviewed annually, and the Town Administrator or
his or her designee is authorized to make any adjustments in the fees as deemed
appropriate. The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall have the
authority to establish animal categories and to set escalating impoundment fees
for animals for recurring violations by the same owner. An accurate copy of the
fee schedule shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the office of the Animal
Control Bureau, and a copy shall also be filed with the Town Clerk's office.
      (3)   The fees in this section do not include applicable charges for any
license or inoculation that may be required by this chapter or other applicable
law. If the animal to be redeemed is not licensed, permitted or inoculated as
required by law, the owner must have the dog or cat inoculated and obtain a
proper license or permit before release of the animal.
      (4)   No fees whatsoever shall be charged or collected on any animal
which has been unlawfully impounded. Any such animal shall immediately be
delivered upon demand to the owner or person entitled to the custody of the
animal. If the owner of a dog or cat pays for spay/neuter services for that
person's animal impounded by the Bureau before the release of the animal to the
owner, the owner shall not be charged any redemption fees, including the
impounding fee but excluding the electronic tagging fee, as stated in this
division (A).
   (B)   Adoption requires animal spay/neuter surgery. The adoption of an
animal shall be a conditional purchase. In addition to the adoption fees stated
in division (A) of this section, the purchaser of a dog/puppy, cat/kitten or
rabbit at the animal control shelter shall pay the cost of spay/neuter
services, as provided in §
90.076, for the adopted animal. The payment for the spay/neuter services shall
be made at the time the person selects an animal for adoption and shall be
nonrefundable. An animal that is immediately eligible for surgery shall not be
released to the new owner until the surgery has been completed and medical
authorization to release the animal has been given. If the animal is not
immediately eligible for spay/neuter surgery, the new owner shall enter into a
contractual agreement to present the animal for surgery on a specific date and
at a specific time determined by the Bureau. If a person adopts an animal and
fails to return with the animal for the appointment for spay/neuter services,
that person shall forfeit the money paid for the surgery effective upon the
scheduled date of the surgery, and the person shall be in violation of this
section for failure to comply with that condition of purchasing the animal.
Further, the purchaser shall consent to the animal control shelter's right to
seize the animal unless the purchaser immediately presents the animal for
surgery at the spay/neuter clinic or can provide proof satisfactory to the
Animal Control Bureau that the surgery has been performed by another veterinary
clinic. If the animal control shelter seizes the animal upon the premises of
the owner, the appropriate warrant for seizure shall be required.
   (C)   Refunds. The Bureau Manager shall have the discretionary authority to
grant a refund of money paid pursuant to this section for the cost of spay/
neuter services when the animal has died before the services can be performed
or if it is subsequently determined that the surgery is unnecessary or
inappropriate or for some other exceptional reason which would make it unjust
for the town to retain the cost for the spay/neuter services paid to the town,
and a refund would be appropriate. This is discretionary authority for the
Bureau Manager; the Bureau Manager may decline to exercise that authority for
any reason whatsoever. If this discretionary authority is exercised, the
Finance Department will be authorized, pursuant to a written memorandum from
the Bureau Manager to the Director of the Finance Department, to refund the
money with whatever appropriate documentation is required by the Finance
Department. If the discretionary authority is not exercised by the Bureau
Manager or if an individual remains dissatisfied with the decision of the
Bureau Manager, the individual must file a notice of claim with the office of
the Town Manager for any further review of such a request.
(1995 Code, § 10-117) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.076 SPAY AND NEUTER SERVICES.
   (A)   Establishment or provision of services. 
      (1)   The Bureau is authorized to establish, equip, operate and maintain
and provide spay/neuter services (referred to as "services") for dogs, cats,
rabbits and ferrets; to employ personnel for those services; and to appropriate
and expend tax and non-tax funds, including property taxes, for those purposes.
In lieu thereof, the Bureau is further authorized to contract with any
individual, corporation, nonprofit corporation, governmental body or any other
group for the purpose of operating or providing services for dogs, cats,
rabbits and ferrets within the town. The Bureau may appropriate and expend tax
and non-tax funds, including property tax, for those purposes.
      (2)   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall have the
authority to establish the cost of services for dogs/puppies, cats/kittens,
rabbits and ferrets based on estimated costs in providing the services. The
Town Manager or his or her designee shall maintain documented records
justifying any increases or decreases. A change in service charges shall occur
no more than once in each six-month period.
   (B)   Consent waiver and form. A person submitting a dog, cat, rabbit or
ferret for the services of the clinic shall first be required to sign a consent
form certifying under penalty of perjury that he or she is the owner of the
animal or is otherwise authorized to present the animal for the operation. The
persons may be required to furnish proof of their ownership or authority. By
signing the consent form, the owner shall waive any and all liability for any
injury or death to an animal arising out of the spaying or neutering operation
or any services provided incidental thereto. The person presenting the animal
for the operation shall indemnify the Bureau against any person's claim that
the Bureau did not have the authority or right to destroy the animal.
   (C)   Boarding charge. The Bureau shall establish a return date by which a
person submitting an animal for the operation as provided in this section shall
pick up the animal or be subject to a reasonable boarding fee, established in
accordance with §
90.075, to commence the date after the return date. If the animal is not picked
up by the seventh day after the return date, the Bureau may dispose of the
animal by any disposition method authorized by this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 10-119) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.077 RABIES IMPOUNDMENT.
   The county ordinance for the control of rabies and other zoonoses shall
apply for rabies impoundment. Consistent with that ordinance, the Bureau
Manager shall have the authority to order confinement of an animal which shows
symptoms of rabies or which has bitten a person and to take whatever other
action is necessary for confinement, observation and disposition of the animal.
(1995 Code, § 10-118) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies, see G.S. §§ 130A-184 et seq.
§ 90.078 UNCARED-FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Whenever the Bureau finds that any animal is or will be without proper
care because of injury, illness, incarceration or other excusable, involuntary
absence of the person responsible for the care of the animal, the Bureau may
impound the animal until it is reclaimed by its owner. The owner must pay the
applicable fees in §
90.075 in the same manner as any other owner would reclaim an impounded animal
prior to the release of the animal by the Bureau.
   (B)   Any animal that has been impounded under division (A) of this section
and that is not reclaimed can be kept, in the discretion of the Bureau Manager,
up to ten days and may be disposed of by the Bureau pursuant to §
90.079.
   (C)   If the owner of the animal notifies the Bureau of the owner's intent
to claim the animal but will not be able to until after the ten-day impoundment
period, the Bureau shall have the authority to grant extensions, in its
discretion, when the Bureau has concluded, after investigating the request,
that the owner or an agent for the owner is not able to reclaim the animal
within the time period specified in division (B) of this section. The owner
shall be charged double the redemption fee stated in §
90.075 if the animal is claimed after the ten-day period when permission has
been granted to claim the animal after the ten-day period. If the Bureau has
concluded that the owner or an agent is in a position to reclaim the animal,
the Bureau can inform the owner or agent that the request is denied and proceed
to dispose of the animal in accordance with §
90.079.
(1995 Code, § 10-69) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
§ 90.079 SALE OR EUTHANASIA.
   (A)   Unclaimed animals. If an animal is not redeemed by the owner during
the applicable period of redemption or has been relinquished to the Bureau, the
animal shall be disposed of as follows.
      (1)   After the required period of time for holding an animal has
expired, unclaimed animals may be offered to the first member of the public
paying the applicable fee. The Bureau Manager shall be authorized not to offer
for sale any animal when it is reasonable to believe that continued medical
observation of the animal is necessary or for any other exceptional reason.
Puppies four months of age or younger shall be kept for seven days. Kittens
four months of age or younger may be kept an appropriate length of time to
ensure their health. Owner-released or unclaimed animals also may be humanely
euthanized at the discretion of the Bureau or may be sold by public auction.
Sale may be refused to anyone who, in the opinion of the Bureau Manager:
         (a)   Is unqualified to own the animal due to drunkenness;
         (b)   Has a record of cruelty to animals;
         (c)   Is under 18 years of age;
         (d)   Has committed acts of harassment to animals residing at the
shelter;
         (e)   Owns other animals which are in violation of requirements of
this chapter;
         (f)   Refuses to comply with adoption requirements of this chapter;
         (g)   Has released two or more animals to the Bureau in the past six
months;
         (h)   Lacks adequate housing and/or fencing to contain the animals; or
         (i)   Has any other incapacity.
      (2)   The Bureau may accept any animal the owner wishes to release to the
Bureau. The owner shall sign a release card vesting all rights and title to the
animal in the Bureau. All released animals shall immediately be available for
public sale or public auction or humane euthanasia as the Bureau Manager deems
appropriate.
      (3)   An employee of the Bureau shall execute a bill of sale to the
purchaser of any animal sold, and thereupon the title to the animal shall be
vested in the purchaser.
      (4)   Employees of the Bureau may adopt Bureau animals but shall do so
using the same procedures as any member of the general public would.
      (5)   The Bureau shall have the authority to carry out the humane
euthanasia of any animal lawfully taken into custody by the Bureau which is:
         (a)   Affected with any dangerous, painful, incurable or communicable
disease; or
         (b)   Incurably crippled or suffering incurably after reasonable
effort has been made to notify the owner.
   (B)   Bites. All dogs and cats that bite a person shall be immediately
confined for ten days in a place designated by the Bureau Manager or the Health
Director. If the owner or the person who controls or possesses the dog or cat
that has bitten a person refuses to confine the animal as required by this
division, the Bureau Manager or the Health Director may order the seizure of
the animal and its confinement for ten days at the expense of the owner. The
disposition of an animal other than a dog or cat that bites a person shall be
at the discretion of the Health Director in consultation with the consulting
veterinarian. If any animal is unclaimed after the ten-day confinement, the
Bureau Manager may dispose of the animal, unless the Bureau Manager receives
instructions of a different nature from the Health Department.
   (C)   Disease. Any animal which appears to be suffering from any disease
shall not be sold but may be reclaimed by its owner at the discretion of the
Bureau Manager on a conditional basis only, provided that the owner provides
proper veterinary medical treatment for the animal in accordance with the
Bureau Manager's instructions. If the person fails to comply with the
instructions, the Bureau Manager shall have the right to seize the animal since
the release of the animal has been conditioned upon compliance with those
instructions.
   (D)   Other authorized dispositions. Animals that are available for sale to
the general public and that qualify for use by the Town Police Department, for
use by the U.S. Customs Department or other affiliated organization, or for use
by a local veterinarian as a blood donor may, at the Bureau Manager's
discretion, be released to these organizations at no charge.
(1995 Code, § 10-120) (Ord. 2005-02, passed - -2005)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
91.01   Deemed unlawful
   
91.02   Enumeration
   
91.03   Notice to abate
   
91.04   Chronic violators
   
91.05   Abatement by town
   
91.06   Right of entry
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Administration
   
91.17   Exceptions
   
91.18   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.19   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.20   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
91.21   Removal of vehicles; pretowing notice requirements
   
91.22   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
91.23   Removal of vehicles; posttowing notice requirements
   
91.24   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
91.25   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
91.26   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
91.27   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
91.28   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
91.29   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
91.30   Removal fees and charges
   
91.31   Changes in law
Noise
   
91.50   General prohibition
   
91.51   Illustrative enumeration
   
91.52   Sounds impacting residential life
   
91.53   Exemptions
   
91.54   Permits for temporary variances
   
91.55   Unreasonable sound amplification
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Control of vegetation near streets, see §§
94.030 through
94.033
   Rodents and other pests, see
Chapter 151
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
   Authority to regulate the removal and disposal of junked or abandoned motor
vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303.2
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 91.01 DEEMED UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land
in the town to permit to exist, on any such lot or parcel of land, any
condition which may be declared to be noxious, detrimental to health or to
constitute a nuisance.
(1995 Code, § 22-26) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 16, passed 10-10-2000)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 ENUMERATION.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot or parcel
of land in the town is hereby declared to be noxious, detrimental to health and
to constitute a nuisance and to be a violation of the provisions of this
chapter:
      (1)   (a)   Any growth of weeds or grass 12 inches or higher is a
violation:
            1.   Lots under one acre adjacent to improved property or a street
(s) shall be cut in its entirety;
            2.   Lots over one acre and adjacent to improved property or a
street(s) shall be cut within 100 feet of the property or street; and
            3.   Any area containing an improved surface must be kept free and
clear from all grass, weeds and other vegetation. For purposes of this
division, IMPROVED means surfaced with concrete, asphalt, gravel or any other
similar material.
         (b)   Every owner and/or occupant of any lot, on any street, shall
keep the right-of-way, the planting strip, street curbs, storm drains,
sidewalks, driveways, and the like, free and clear of any grass, weeds,
vegetation, and other debris.
         (c)   This division (A)(1) shall not apply to those lands certified,
dedicated or designated by the city or other appropriate governmental agency as
vegetative buffer, floodplain, stream buffer, open space or other natural or
environmentally sensitive area established to protect the public or protect and
preserve natural greenways, floodways, streams or water quality.
      (2)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of strong odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice,
snakes or vermin of any kind;
      (3)   Any concentration of rubbish, trash, junk, mattresses, boxes, old
clothes, rags or any other combustible material or objects of like kind causing
or threatening to cause a fire hazard; or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water; or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of mosquitoes, rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind;
      (4)   Any unused, abandoned or open water supply well which poses a
potential hazard for water contamination or safety;
      (5)   Any accumulation of fallen trees, dead trees, sections of tree
trunks or tree limbs on a parcel of land, provided this condition shall not
apply to accumulations of less than two cubic yards or to natural accumulations
on parcels of land or portions thereof that are predominately wooded;
      (6)   Any unsecured building, including but not limited to houses,
apartments, nonresidential buildings and accessory buildings, which contribute
to or are likely to contribute to blighted neighborhood conditions such as
vagrancy, trash accumulation, alcohol or illegal drug use, trespassing,
prostitution or other criminal activities;
      (7)   Any structure, the remains of a structure, or portion thereof that
is in a damaged condition as the result of fire, wind, flood or other disaster
that remains in an unrepaired state for a period of 30 days from the date of
the disaster and that has one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Glass, metal or other sharp objects in an accessible area;
         (b)   Unstable structures or damaged trees which may fall or collapse;
         (c)   Holes, excavations, surviving foundations or walls that may
collapse or create heights in excess of three feet in areas where they may be
scaled;
         (d)   Any substance that is hazardous or harmful to humans or pets;
and
         (e)   Any open or accessible utility line such as natural gas, water,
sewer or electrical.
      (8)   Any accumulation of debris from the demolition of any structure,
including but not limited to partially demolished walls, foundations,
basements, building materials and other rubbish after the cessation of all
active demolition activity on the property;
      (9)   Any swimming pool or its appurtenances which is dangerous or
prejudicial to public health and safety, including but not limited to pools
with stagnant water, debris, dead animals or structural deficiencies; or
      (10)   Any condition found by the Town Administrator or designee to be
detrimental to the health of the town or any of its inhabitants, or which is
violative of any of the rules and regulations of the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or occupant to cut
and/or remove all grass, weeds or accumulation of other noxious matter listed
herein as often as necessary to comply with the provision of this section.
(1995 Code, § 22-27) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 16, passed 10-10-2000;
Ord. 2007-03, passed 8- 14-2007; Ord. 2013-03, passed 4-9-2013)
§ 91.03 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Town Administrator or
designee that there exists on any lot or parcel of land in the town any of the
conditions enumerated in this chapter, he or she shall forthwith give the owner
thereof notice, in writing and by first class mail, that the condition exists
and that he or she shall have five days from the date of service, or from the
final date of publication, in which to remedy the same or the town shall cause
the same to be remedied.
(1995 Code, § 22-28) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 16, passed 10-10-2000;
Ord. 2007-03, passed 8-14-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 91.04 CHRONIC VIOLATORS.
   The town may notify a chronic violator of §
91.02(A)(1) that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation of §
91.02(A)(1), the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in
which the notice is given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense
of the action shall become a lien upon the property in accordance with G.S. §
160A-193. The initial annual notice shall be served by registered or certified
mail. A  CHRONIC VIOLATOR is a person who owns property whereupon, in the
previous calendar year, the town gave a notice of violation at least once under
§
91.03.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 91.05 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to
remedy the condition within the time allowed, the Town Administrator or
designee shall cause the condition to be remedied. After five days, the town
may fine the owner and/or occupant up to $50. After ten days, the town may take
any necessary action to remedy the condition. The expense of the action and a
fine of $500 shall be paid by the person in default, and if not paid shall be a
lien upon the land or premises where the trouble arose, and shall be collected
as unpaid taxes in accordance with G.S. § 160A-193.
(1995 Code, § 22-29) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 16, passed 10-10-2000;
Ord. 2007-03, passed 8-14-2007)
§ 91.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purposes of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the Town
Administrator may at all reasonable times enter in and upon any premises within
his or her jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 22-30) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 16, passed 10-10-2000;
Ord. 2007-03, passed 8-14-2007)
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. 160A-303, a motor
vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
an employee of the town appointed by the Town Administrator, respectively,
designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle, and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Mayor and Council.
(1995 Code, § 22-41) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and authorizing official shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The Police Department shall
be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town,
and on property owned by the town. The authorizing official shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property. The town may, on
an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses
to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and
junked motor vehicles in compliance with this subchapter and applicable state
laws. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(1995 Code, § 22-42) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et
seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(1995 Code, § 22-43) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.18 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1995 Code, § 22-44) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, and order
the vehicle removed.
(1995 Code, § 22-45) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle on the
premises of public or private property. Single, permitted junked motor vehicle
must strictly comply with the location and concealment requirements of this
section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person entitled to the
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to fail to
comply with the vocational requirements or the concealment requirements of this
section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) of this section, upon
investigation, the authorizing official may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. The finding
shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss, of the apparent owner
against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other relevant
factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the town's zoning ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering. The authorizing official has the authority
to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as
required by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives of this division.
      (2)   Any other junked motor vehicles must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicles cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A  GARAGE OR
BUILDING STRUCTURE means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code
regulations.
(1995 Code, § 22-46) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; PRETOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
91.22, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice shall retain a written record to show the
name and address to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the names and
addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned
motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some
other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle
will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will be
removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Mayor and Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Mayor and Council and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1995 Code, § 22-47) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.22 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. The findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Mayor and Council hereby determines that immediate
removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or -standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under sections of this code.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(1995 Code, § 22-48) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.23 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POSTTOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (1) through (5) of
division (A) of this section, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's
last known address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle
owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(1) through (5) of division (A) of this section.
(1995 Code, § 22-49) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.24 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle under this division, the owner or any other person entitled to
possession is entitled to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable
cause existed for removing the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in
writing with the county magistrate designated by the chief district court judge
to receive the hearing requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72
hours of receipt of the request, and the hearing will be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11(c), as amended.
(1995 Code, § 22-50) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.25 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 22-51) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.26 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-1 et seq.
(1995 Code, § 22-52) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.27 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the authorizing official. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(1995 Code, § 22-53) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.28 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 22-54) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.29 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(1995 Code, § 22-55) (Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 REMOVAL FEES AND CHARGES.
   The tow service or towing contractor shall be solely responsible for
collecting any fees charged by the towing contractor under any contract with
the town for the towing, removal, storage and/or disposal of a motor vehicle
pursuant to this subchapter, except the fees must be approved by Town Council
and fees in excess of those approved by Town Council may not be collected under
any towing contract with the town.
(Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 91.31 CHANGES IN LAW.
   Should G.S. §§ 160A-303, 160A-303.2 or any other section of the General
Statutes incorporated by reference or otherwise referred to in this subchapter
be changed or amended, or should the statutes require or mandate a different
procedure or change or impose new, different or additional requirements, this
subchapter shall be deemed to have been amended without further action to have
complied with the new, additional or amended requirements.
(Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000)
NOISE
§ 91.50 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating any
unreasonably loud or disturbing noise between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(1995 Code, § 22-76) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 91.51 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The following acts, among other acts not enumerated, are declared to be
unreasonably loud or disturbing noises which are in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, sound amplifying device or any
musical instrument, or talking, singing or yelling in such a manner or with
such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, normal comfort or repose of any
person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
   (B)   Allowing any animal, including dogs, cats and birds, in a person's
possession or control to howl, bark, meow, squawk or make any other sounds as
to annoy or disturb the quiet, normal comfort or repose of any person in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
   (C)   The explosion of any fireworks unless under a written permit obtained
from the town;
   (D)   The use of any automobile, truck, motorcycle, motor vehicle or motor
vehicle equipment so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, normal comfort or repose
of any person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence; and
   (E)   The sound of any horn or signaling device on any motor vehicle
continuously and/or intermittently for a period in excess of 60 seconds, except
as a danger warning.
(1995 Code, § 22-77)
§ 91.52 SOUNDS IMPACTING RESIDENTIAL LIFE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to carry on the following activities in a
residentially zoned area of the town or within 300 feet of any residentially
occupied structure in any zone of the town:
      (1)   Operate a front-end or rear-end loader for refuse collection
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Operate construction machinery between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Operate garage machinery between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.; and
      (4)   Operate lawn mowers and other domestic tools out-of-doors between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to emergency operations designed to
protect the public health and safety.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-13-1999) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from §
91.50:
   (A)   Any bell or chime from any building clock, school or church;
   (B)   Any siren, whistle or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles or any
other alarm systems used in an emergency situation; provided, however, that
burglar alarms not terminating within 30 minutes after the responsible person
has been notified shall be unlawful;
   (C)   Noise created as a result of or relating to an emergency;
   (D)   Warning devices required by OSHA or any local, county, state or
federal safety regulations;
   (E)   Noise created by any aircraft flight operations which are specifically
preempted by the Federal Aviation Administration;
   (F)   All noises coming from moving motor vehicles properly equipped with
the manufacturer's standard mufflers and noise reducing equipment, which are
operated in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations and safe driving
practices;
   (G)   Noise produced by motorboats, which noises are currently governed by
G.S. § 75A-9;
   (H)   Agricultural and horticultural operations conducted in a reasonable
manner on property classified as bona fide farms for ad valorem tax purposes;
and
   (I)   Noise created by public recreational activity or any other activity of
temporary duration, or which a permit has been granted pursuant to §
91.54.
(1995 Code, § 22-79)
§ 91.54 PERMITS FOR TEMPORARY VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring relief from any provision of this subchapter shall
apply for a permit to cause or create a noise which would otherwise be in
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Applications for permits under this section must be made in writing to
the Town Administrator and shall contain information which demonstrates that
bringing a source of sound or activity for which the permit is sought into
compliance with this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the
applicant, on the community or on other persons.
   (C)   In determining whether to tentatively approve a permit or to grant or
deny the application, the Noise Control Permit Board (the Mayor, the Chief of
Police, the Town Administrator) shall balance the hardship to the applicant,
the community and other persons of not granting the permit against the adverse
impact on the health, safety, welfare and comfort of persons affected, the
adverse impact on property affected, and other adverse impacts of granting the
permit. Any decision made on appeal by the Mayor and Council shall be made on
the same basis.
   (D)   (1)   If the permit is tentatively approved, the applicant shall be
responsible for mailing by first class mail or otherwise delivering to each
property owner as shown on the tax records of the county owning property within
a 1,000-foot radius of the facility for which the permit has been tentatively
approved a notice on a form provided by the Town Administrator showing the time
and date of the event for which the permit is being sought and any conditions
included as part of the tentative approval. The notice shall indicate that if
any persons wish to contest the granting of the permit, they can do so by
filing a statement in writing with the Town Administrator on or before the
fifth day following the date of the delivery of the notice. Permits shall not
be actually granted until:
         (a)   The applicant submits an affidavit to the Town Administrator
showing the dates that the notices have actually been mailed or otherwise
delivered; and
         (b)   The time period for receiving comments has elapsed.
      (2)   If the Noise Control Permit Board finds that a sufficient
controversy exists regarding the application, the Noise Control Board shall
deny the permit. In granting or denying a permit, the Noise Control Permit
Board shall place on public file a copy of the decision and the reasons for
granting or denying the permit.
   (E)   Any applicant for a permit whose application is denied is entitled to
appeal to the Mayor and Council. Any five persons alleging to be affected by a
granted permit are entitled to appeal the granting of a permit. An appeal voids
the permit the granting of which is appealed, but the permit may be reissued if
the opponents do not give the notices of public hearing as required by this
section. Appeals must be made in writing to the Town Administrator within 72
hours of the granting or denial of the special permit. A public hearing shall
be held within 15 days of the date of the appeal. If the applicant appeals, he
or she shall be required to mail or otherwise deliver to each property owner as
shown on the tax records of the county owning property within a 1,000-foot
radius of the facility for which the permit is sought a notice of the hearing
prepared by the Town Administrator. The notices must be mailed by first class
mail or delivered at least seven days prior to the hearing. If other persons
appeal the granting of a permit, they must mail or deliver notices to all
property owners within the 1,000-foot radius as specified above and to the
applicant. Within five days following the public hearing, the Mayor and Council
shall grant or deny the permit and place on public file a copy of the decision
and the reasons for granting or denying the permit.
   (F)   Any permit granted pursuant to this section shall contain thereon all
conditions upon which the permit has been granted, including but not limited to
the effective date, time of day, location, sound level limits and equipment
limitations; provided, however, that no permit shall be issued for a period in
excess of 15 consecutive days. Any permit granted under this section may be
renewed upon replication. Noncompliance with any condition of the permit shall
terminate it and subject the permit holder to §
91.99.
(1995 Code, § 22-80)
§ 91.55 UNREASONABLE SOUND AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use or otherwise operate,
either from a motor vehicle or as a pedestrian, any radio, tape player or other
sound amplification device emitting sound that is audible from a distance of 50
or more feet from the source of the sound, unless the device is being used to
request assistance or warn against an unsafe condition.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Public safety personnel, when responding to an emergency call or
engaged in other official business;
      (2)   Persons engaged in lawful assembly, procession or community event;
      (3)   The operator of a public utility vehicle, when utilizing two-way
communications equipment;
      (4)   The operator of a vehicle being used for advertising purposes in
accordance with existing ordinances; or
      (5)   The activation of a theft alarm signal device.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and subject to the
provisions of §
91.99(D).
(Ord. 15, passed 9-12-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of nuisances in general; noise.
      (1)   Where there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, except
as otherwise indicated, the town, in its discretion, may take one or more of
the following enforcement actions:
         (a)   A police officer may issue a citation subjecting the violator to
a $100 civil penalty, which penalty may provide for a $15 delinquency charge
upon nonpayment, and which penalty and delinquency charge may be recovered by
the town in a civil action.
         (b)   A misdemeanor warrant may be issued either immediately or upon
the issuance of a citation and the violator's failure to pay the same.
Misdemeanors shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment
for up to 30 days.
         (c)   A civil action seeking a penalty of $500 per day of violation
plus injunction and order of abatement may be directed toward any person
creating or allowing the creation of any unlawful noise, including the owner or
person otherwise having legal or actual control of the premises from which it
emanates.
(1995 Code, § 22-78)
      (2)   For the purposes of §
91.52, VIOLATOR means either the operator of the front-end loader, the employer
of the operator, or the company, partnership, corporation or other person or
entity which owns, possesses or controls the front-end loader utilized by the
operator.
   (C)   Abandoned and junked motor vehicles.
      (1)   Any violation of §§
91.15 through
91.31, or the failure to abide by any lawful order issued pursuant to these
sections, shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty on division (C)(1) above, any violation
of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply with any of the
requirements shall also constitute a civil offense and shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Any person violating §§
91.15 through
91.31 shall be issued a written citation of the violation, which may be issued
by any police officer, zoning enforcement officer or any other authorized
official as is charged from time to time by the Town Administrator with the
enforcement of this chapter. If the offender fails to pay the penalty within 15
days from the issuance to the town, the penalty may be recovered by the town in
a civil action in the nature of debt.
      (3)   Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense. Each motor vehicle in violation of this subchapter shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
      (4)   In addition, the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.31 may also be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction including injunction and order abatement or any other
remedy permitted under this chapter or at law or equity.
      (5)   This subchapter may be enforced by any one, all or combination of
the remedies authorized in this division (C).
   (D)   Effective April 12, 2022, the following civil penalties are fixed for
the violations indicated:
 
    Offense                               Fine
    Noise                                  
       First violation                 $100
(1)    Second violation                $250
       Third violation                 $500
       Fourth violation                $750
       Fifth and subsequent violations $1,000
 
(Ord. 10, passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 13, passed 2-8-2000; Ord. 15, passed 9-12-
2000; Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire protection service generally
   
92.02   False fire alarms
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.15   Adoption
   
92.16   Conflicting provisions
   
92.17   Fire protection during construction
Multifamily Dwellings
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Fire restrictions
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection in municipalities, see G.S. §§ 160A-291 through 160A-294
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE GENERALLY.
   The town will provide fire protection to its residents through the
Pineville-Morrow Volunteer Fire Department and Rescue, Inc.
(1995 Code, § 24-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint firefighters, see G.S. § 160A-291
§ 92.02 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given an alarm
for the purpose of summoning firefighting or emergency personnel when no fire
or other emergency exists.
(1995 Code, § 24-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.15 ADOPTION.
   The current edition of the National Fire Protection Association Fire
Prevention Code is hereby adopted by reference, as fully as though set forth in
this section, as the Fire Prevention Code for the town. An official copy of the
Code shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 24-26)
§ 92.16 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Whenever provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted by this subchapter
are in direct conflict with a provision of the State Building Code, then the
jurisdiction and authority of the State Building Code shall supersede the
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code.
(1995 Code, § 24-27)
§ 92.17 FIRE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Within the boundaries of the town, construction on new/existing
commercial buildings and subdivisions during construction phase shall comply
with the following: North Carolina Building Code: Fire Code § 1412, Water
Supply for Fire Protection.
   (B)   Wherever possible, the source of the water supply will be through the
use of water lines and fire hydrants installed as part of the development
requirements. These lines must be properly connected and functional prior to
the arrival of combustible materials. An alternative source may be used if it
is determined to be an "approved water supply." The Town Administrator or his
or her designee shall determine what constitutes an approved water supply.
   (C)   An approved water supply for fire protection, either temporary or
permanent, shall be made available as soon as combustible material arrives on
the site.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-13-2009)
MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof used as a multiple dwelling
for the purpose of providing three or more separate dwelling units which may
share means of egress and other essential factors.
   CONDOMINIUM DWELLING UNIT. An apartment.
   DWELLING. A building occupied exclusively for residential purposes and
having:
      (1)   One dwelling unit;
      (2)   Two dwelling units; or
      (3)   One dwelling unit with not more than five boarders or roomers
served with meals or sleeping accommodations or both.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   MULTIFAMILY DWELLING. A building or portion thereof containing three or more
dwelling units; including tenement houses, apartment houses and flats.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series or group of
attached units with property lines separating the units.
(1995 Code, § 24-51)
§ 92.31 FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to use open-flame cooking appliances, including grills,
on outside balconies of any multifamily dwelling, apartment house, townhouse or
condominium dwelling unit.
(1995 Code, § 24-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Rules and regulations
   
93.02   Alcoholic beverages
   
93.03   Weapons prohibited
   
93.04   Swimming or boating in town lake
   
93.05   Traffic
   
93.06   Fishing permit
   
93.07   Feeding of waterfowl
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor and Council shall establish rules and regulations for the
operation of the town parks and the Belle Johnston Center. The rules and
regulations shall be maintained and made available to the public at the Town
Hall.
(1995 Code, § 34-1)
§ 93.02 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Possession or consumption of alcohol at municipal parks is prohibited. It
shall be unlawful for any person to possess an open container of alcohol or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of town parks at any time,
including but not limited to park buildings, park grounds, park parking lots,
playgrounds, recreational areas, tennis courts, trails or any athletic fields
except as otherwise specifically permitted by the Town Council annually or as
needed.
(1995 Code, § 34-2) (Ord. 2017-01, passed 3-14-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, see
Chapter 116
§ 93.03 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Public buildings. Except as provided in division (G) below, no weapon
or firearm including a handgun carried under the authority of a lawful
concealed handgun permit shall be permitted in any buildings and their
appurtenant premises owned by the town.
   (B)   Town park. Except as provided in division (G) below, all persons are
prohibited from possessing any firearm, unless carried concealed under the
authority of a lawful concealed handgun permit, in any town park. However, this
exception does not apply to those locations identified in division (C).
   (C)   Recreational facilities. Except as provided in division (G) below, all
persons are prohibited from possessing any firearm, including a concealed
handgun carried concealed under the authority of a lawful concealed handgun
permit, at the following town recreational facilities (i.e., athletic
facilities or athletic fields having organized scheduled events for use) in
accordance with G.S. § 14-415.23:
      (1)   The Belle Johnston Community Center located at 1000 Johnston Drive;
      (2)   The Hut Meeting Facility located at 413 Johnston Drive;
      (3)   The Shay Stage and playground inside Lake Park located at 1000
Johnston Drive;
      (4)   The baseball/softball fields and multipurpose athletic field having
organized athletic events scheduled for use and concession and seating areas at
Jack D. Hughes Memorial Park located at 513 Main Street.
   (D)   Weapons other than firearms. Except as provided in division (G) below,
all persons are prohibited from possessing weapons, other than firearms, as
defined in G.S. § 14-269 in town owned buildings, their appurtenant premises,
and in town parks and recreational facilities, as defined herein.
   (E)   Storage in vehicle. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit a person
from storing a firearm within a motor vehicle while the vehicle is on the
aforementioned properties in the town.
   (F)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, BUILDINGS is defined as
set forth in G.S. § 14-54(c) as including any dwelling, dwelling house,
uninhabited house, building under construction, building within the curtilage
of a dwelling house, and any other structure designed to house or secure within
it any activity or property.
   (G)   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
      (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
      (2)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
      (4)   Sworn law enforcement officers;
      (5)   Persons firing firearms without projectiles in organized
educational, entertainment, instructional, or ceremonial events sponsored by
the Town of Pineville or the Pineville Parks and Recreation Department.
   (H)   Posted notice. A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance
to any property set forth in divisions (A), (B), or (C) above outlining the
restrictions prescribed in this section.
   (I)   Contraband. Firearms and other weapons possessed in violation of this
section are hereby declared to be contraband. The Chief of Police or his or her
designee shall dispose of such weapons pursuant to applicable state law.
(1995 Code, § 34-3) (Ord. 2011-04, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 2013-04, passed 11-
12-2013) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SWIMMING OR BOATING IN TOWN LAKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the town lake for swimming or
boating unless authorized by the Town Administrator or designee.
(1995 Code, § 34-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 TRAFFIC.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the motor vehicle
traffic laws of the state and ordinances of the town in regard to equipment and
operation of vehicles;
   (B)   Fail to obey all police officers and park officers, such persons being
hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and wherever needed
in the parks in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and
supplementary regulations as may be issued subsequently by the Superintendent;
   (C)   Fail to observe carefully all traffic signs indicating speed,
direction, caution, stopping or parking, and all others posted for proper
control and to safeguard life and property;
   (D)   Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed exceeding 15 miles an hour,
except upon roads as the Superintendent may specifically designate by posted
signs for speedier travel;
   (E)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking
areas, or other areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as
temporary parking areas by the Superintendent;
   (F)   Park a vehicle in other than an established or designated parking
area, and the use shall be in accordance with the posted directions and with
the instructions of any traffic officer or park officer who may be present;
   (G)   Fail to immediately notify an attendant or park officer of an
emergency in the nature of a breakdown requiring the assistance of a tow truck,
mechanic or other persons; or
   (H)   Operate any go-cart, minibike or other non-self-propelled vehicle at
any location within the park other than those places, if any, as are
specifically designated for that purpose, except that regularly licensed
vehicles and operators may have access to streets and roadways within parks to
the same extent as public streets subject to the traffic rules of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 34-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 FISHING PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to fish in the town lake without a fishing permit from
the town.
(1995 Code, § 34-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 FEEDING OF WATERFOWL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FEED or FEEDING. The act of or the furnishing of food or other sustenance
which is essential for growth or maintenance.
      PERSON(S). An individual, family, firm, partnership, corporation,
association of persons or institution commonly recognized by law as a unit.
      WATERFOWL. Any member of the species of birds, commonly known as swans,
geese, ducks, seagulls and any other waterfowl.
   (B)   Feeding waterfowl. It shall be unlawful for any person to feed, cause
to be fed or provide food or other sustenance essential for growth or
maintenance to any waterfowl on public property, including but not limited to
town-owned parks.
   (C)   Signs. Appropriate signs shall be erected within all town parks, as
well as other areas within the town, at the discretion of the Town
Administrator, advising and alerting the public not to feed waterfowl.
   (D)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is November 1,
2004.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 10-12-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
93.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined $500
or imprisoned for six months or both.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing, refusing or
neglecting to comply with §
93.07 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100. By authority of G.S. §
160A-175(g), each day’s continuing offense shall be a separate and distinct
offense. This provision may be enforced by any one, or all, or a combination of
the remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. § 160A-175. This provision shall
be administered and enforced by the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2004-06, passed 10-12-2004; Ord. 2011-04, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 2013-
04, passed 11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Approval, acceptance of new streets
   
94.002   Moving of buildings
   
94.003   Damaging street with machinery or equipment
   
94.004   Placing objects on street or sidewalk
   
94.005   Assembly on street or sidewalk
   
94.006   Vehicles dropping debris on street
House Numbering
   
94.015   Buildings to be numbered
   
94.016   Method of numbering
   
94.017   Expense
   
94.018   Size and location of numbers
Control of Vegetation and Obstructions Near Streets
   
94.030   Violation of subchapter; obstructing enforcement of subchapter
   
94.031   Visibility at intersections
   
94.032   Notice to abate
   
94.033   Abatement by town
Excavation and Repair
   
94.040   Purpose
   
94.041   Definitions
   
94.042   Projects requiring approval
   
94.043   Location of facilities
   
94.044   Permit required; exception
   
94.045   Utility right-of-way master permit required
   
94.046   Powers reserved
   
94.047   Utility facility installation, maintenance, repair, and removal
   
94.048   Utility pavement/sidewalk cuts
   
94.049   Lane closure/traffic control
   
94.050   English proficiency required
   
94.051   Additional violations
   
94.052   Fees and deposits
   
94.053   Process for amending rules and regulations
   
94.054   Administration and enforcement
   
94.055   Civil penalties
   
94.056   Administrative enforcement
   
94.057   Appeals
Parades and Processions
   
94.060   Definitions
   
94.061   Conformance to subchapter provisions
   
94.062   Permit required
   
94.063   Application for permit
   
94.064   Conditions of issuance
   
94.065   Denials; public hearing
   
94.066   Compliance with provisions
   
94.067   Hours permitted
   
94.068   Maximum number per day
   
94.069   Routes, schedules
   
94.070   Regulation of parking
   
94.071   Driving through funeral processions
 
   
94.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Picketing, see
Chapter 130
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority relative to streets and sidewalks, see G.S. §§ 160A-296
et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 APPROVAL, ACCEPTANCE OF NEW STREETS.
   (A)   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted
as such, and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Mayor and
Council must give its approval, finding that the street complies with
engineering standards set by the board established by the North Carolina
General Statutes and the State Department of Transportation and that the best
interests of the town would be served by accepting the street as a town street.
   (B)   The standards and policy of the board as set out in the Street
Department management policy on file in the Town Clerk's office is hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set out in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 38-1)
§ 94.002 MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Mayor and Council and the
deposit of the currently required bond to cover damage done to the street or
sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(1995 Code, § 38-2) Penalty, see §
94.999
Statutory reference:
   Housemoving to comply with local regulations, see G.S. § 20-368
   Professional housemoving, see G.S. §§ 20-356 et seq.
§ 94.003 DAMAGING STREET WITH MACHINERY OR EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag or run or cause to be dragged or
run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any asphalt,
bitulithic, warrenite or other type of permanently paved street of the town
which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof. It shall
also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(1995 Code, § 38-3) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.004 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substance obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided that any person erecting a building may with permission place building
material for immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not interfere
with the usual traffic.
(1995 Code, § 38-5) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 ASSEMBLY ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing
so as to obstruct any sidewalk or street.
   (B)   All persons so collecting and standing shall disperse and move upon
the demand of any police officer.
(1995 Code, § 38-6) Penalty, see §
94.999
Cross-reference:
   Picketing, see
Chapter 130
§ 94.006 VEHICLES DROPPING DEBRIS ON STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or transport by motor truck or
other vehicle over the public streets of the town loose dirt, sand, stone,
trash, debris or unbaled or unpackaged materials of any kind in such a manner
as to permit the material to be deposited in the course of the hauling or
transportation upon the streets other than at the place designated for
unloading.
(1995 Code, § 38-7) Penalty, see §
94.999
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 94.015 BUILDINGS TO BE NUMBERED.
   The owner of any building erected in the town shall cause to be placed an
identification, commonly known as a house number, which number shall serve to
identify the building as to its location in the block in which it is situated,
and the relative position of the building in the block.
(1995 Code, § 38-31)
§ 94.016 METHOD OF NUMBERING.
   All buildings fronting on public streets and avenues of the town shall be
numbered in conformity with the numbering map of the town on file in the office
of the Town Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 38-32)
§ 94.017 EXPENSE.
   The expense incurred in compliance with this subchapter shall be borne by
the party placing the number.
(1995 Code, § 38-33)
§ 94.018 SIZE AND LOCATION OF NUMBERS.
   The numbers required under this subchapter shall be at least three inches
tall and shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the building or porch.
Numbers on the curbing will be permitted, but only in addition to the number on
the building.
(1995 Code, § 38-34)
CONTROL OF VEGETATION AND OBSTRUCTIONS NEAR STREETS
§ 94.030 VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER; OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No person shall neglect to cut or remove weeds, grass, vegetation or
obstructions to visibility as directed in this subchapter; shall fail, neglect
or refuse to comply with the provisions of any notice provided for in this
subchapter; or shall resist or obstruct the Director of Public Works or his or
her agents in the cutting or removal of weeds, grass, vegetation or
obstructions to visibility.
(1995 Code, § 38-56) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.031 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any district other than the central business district, no
planting, structure, sign, fence, wall or obstruction to vision more than three
feet in height measured from the centerline of the street shall be placed or
maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street
centerlines and a straight line connecting points on the street centerlines,
each of which is 75 feet (150 feet for major streets) in distance from the
point of intersection.
(1995 Code, § 38-57) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.032 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Town Administrator that there
exists on any lot or parcel of land in the town any of the conditions
enumerated in this subchapter, he or she shall forthwith give the owner thereof
notice, served upon the owner by a police officer of the town, or if service
cannot be had after a reasonable attempt is made, by publishing the same in the
official newspaper of the town once a week for two consecutive weeks, that the
condition exists and that he or she shall have 15 days from the date of
service, or from the final date of publication, in which to remedy the same or
the town shall cause the same to be remedied.
(1995 Code, § 38-58)
§ 94.033 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the person upon whom the notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to
remedy the condition within the time allowed, the Town Administrator shall
cause the condition to be remedied. The expense of the action shall be paid by
the person in default, and if not paid shall be a lien upon the land or
premises where the trouble arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(1995 Code, § 38-59)
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 94.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the proper management of
the public rights-of-way in order to preserve the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of Pineville. Specifically, this subchapter is intended to
provide for the reasonable regulation of the owners of public and private
utility facilities located in the public rights-of-way, and the time, place and
manner in which such utility facilities are located and worked upon.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY. A company that owns and provides services to customers through
utility facilities located in the right-of-way. This definition shall include
the town for purposes of the town's ownership of telephone, electric, and storm
water utility facilities.
   UTILITY FACILITY. A pole, tower, water main or line, sanitary sewer pipe or
line, storm water pipe or structure, gas pipe or gas line, telecommunications
line or equipment, power line, conduit, or any like structure.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.042 PROJECTS REQUIRING APPROVAL.
   With the exception of street department personnel, no person shall in any
manner infringe upon town street system rights-of-way without explicit prior
written permission from the town, unless otherwise authorized through the
receipt of a master permit. Specifically, it shall be unlawful to perform any,
each or all of the following without prior approval:
   (A)   Digging, scraping, improving, paving, ditching or excavating on any
town street or any town right-of-way;
   (B)   Planting or removing any shrub, tree or flower upon the town right-of-
way;
   (C)   Placing any sign, or damaging or removing any sign on the town right-
of-way;
   (D)   Constructing utility facilities upon or under any town street or upon
or under any street right-of-way; and
   (E)   Constructing sewer or water lines upon or under any street or any
street right-of-way, or damaging or removing any such lines that have been
legally installed.
(1995 Code, § 38-81) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.043 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Overhead parallel facilities. Overhead parallel facilities are
discouraged and may not be permitted. If permitted, an overhead parallel
facility may be located within the right-of-way lines of a public street only
if:
      (1)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
      (2)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet behind the face of the curb, where
available;
      (3)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement edge
as practicable with minimum distance of four feet outside the outer shoulder
line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
      (4)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a public street; and
      (5)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot of the
right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
   (B)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a public street only if:
      (1)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet from and parallel to the right-of-way
line;
      (2)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a public
street only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
      (3)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing public streets.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of public streets
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities shall not be
located in culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility shall not interfere with traffic signalization, sign
visibility or town enhancement. It may cross a public street only if:
         (a)   Poles are located within one foot of the right-of-way line of
the public street and outside of the clear zone; and
         (b)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a public street only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The town may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a public street. Each marker shall identify the
type of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also
be eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. For new
construction, the town may require that facilities be located within particular
rights-of-way that are not public streets, rather than within particular public
streets.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The town may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The town may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of- way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The town may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the public street user or impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being
traversed.
   (G)   Above ground installation. Above ground facilities may be installed
only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable.
   (H)   Public utilities in residential subdivisions.
      (1)   All public, quasi-public or private utility lines for
telecommunications, electrical, gas, cable TV or similar services shall be
placed in easements and entirely underground in residential subdivisions. Where
public, quasi-public or private service lines are placed underground entirely
throughout a subdivided area, said conduits or cable shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict with
other underground services.
      (2)   Utility installation. All utility equipment boxes shall be located
so as to not be unsightly or hazardous to the public. Utility equipment
exceeding a volume of 200 cubic feet in size shall be placed a minimum of 25
feet away from the edge of the pavement when located along a public roadway.
When installed in a residential district, utility equipment shall be placed
within easements or public rights-of-way adjacent to rear or side yards.
Utility equipment boxes shall be grouped in clusters to the greatest extent
possible. No more than four utility equipment boxes shall be placed in a
cluster. Clusters shall not occupy more than 160 square feet of surface area
when a rectangular perimeter is measured around all boxes.
      (3)   No more than one cluster of utility boxes shall be located on a
public utility easement on a lot of record or public right of way adjacent to
one lot of record. Utility boxes shall be 150 feet apart, unless clustered. If
engineering techniques as approved by the town do not allow a distance of 150
feet, the town may approve a shorter distance.
      (4)   All gas mains shall be placed within the street right-of-way or
within easements.
      (5)   Underground work, either the installation of or the repair of
existing sewer and water systems, cannot commence until the appropriate public
or quasi-public utilities are staked.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.044 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or poles or
for any other purposes unless a written permit therefore has been issued by
some officer of the town vested with proper authority. A permit shall not be
required where the work is performed under a contract with the town, but if the
work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the
party performing the work shall notify the town at least two hours before
obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden emergency.
(1995 Code, § 38-82) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.045 UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY MASTER PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to own any utility facility located in, on, under, or
above the right-of-way without a valid and un-expired utility right-of-way
master permit issued by the town. A utility right-of-way master permit shall,
among other things:
   (A)   Grant to the holder of the permit the general right to have utility
facilities in the right-of-way provided, however, that the master permit does
not constitute a permit for any particular installation, maintenance, repair,
or removal of a utility facility;
   (B)   Specify the term of the permit (which term shall typically be for the
one-year period, or portion of a one-year period, that expires on June 30);
   (C)   Provide for the removal of abandoned utility facilities;
   (D)   Acknowledge the town's right to require the removal or relocation of
utility facilities when necessitated by a public need;
   (E)   Provide for the defense and indemnification of the town, its officers,
and employees for claims and suits arising out of the use of the right-of-way;
   (F)   Require proof of suitable levels of insurance coverage;
   (G)   State the rights, if any, to assign or transfer rights or obligations
without the prior consent of the town;
   (H)   Acknowledge the town's full retention of its police power;
   (I)   Provide for the registration of all contractors who work in the right-
of-way on behalf of the owner (contractors must meet all local requirements,
including but not limited to obtaining a Pineville Privilege License); and
   (J)   Provide for the preparation, maintenance and maps of utility
facilities located within the town.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.046 POWERS RESERVED.
   A utility right-of-way master permit does not constitute a grant of all
governmental approval necessary for the use and enjoyment of utility facilities
located in the rights-of-way. A utility right-of-way master permit is not a
franchise. With respect to the holder of a utility right-of-way master permit,
the town fully retains its franchising and police power authority and the
holder of a utility right-of-way master permit is not relieved of its
obligation to obtain all necessary franchises and permits and to comply with
all other legal requirements.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.047 UTILITY FACILITY INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee is authorized to adopt, amend, and
repeal standards and provisions governing the installation, maintenance,
repair, and removal of utility facilities in, on, under, and over the rights-
of-way. The standards and provisions shall, among other things, specify those
types of activities that: (i) require a utility work permit; (ii) do not
require a utility work permit but must be done in accordance with the standards
set forth in the standards and provisions; and (iii) are exempt. The standards
and provisions shall also address emergency situations and activities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain, repair, or remove any
utility facility in the right-of-way in violation of the standards and
provisions adopted pursuant to division (A).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to install, maintain, repair, or remove any
utility facility in the right-of-way without a utility work permit if the
standards and provisions adopted pursuant to division (A) require a utility
work permit for such activities.
   (D)   Any owner of utility facilities located in the right-of-way shall
maintain a map of such facilities.
   (E)   Where underground utilities such as cable, power, gas, and water are
located and marked within any road right-of-way the following shall apply for
signage, markers, identification and similar:
      (1)   Where existing wood utility poles are located, any new or revised
utility sign shall co-locate on existing poles. Co-located utility pole signage
shall not exceed one square foot each in size and signage should be a minimum
of 300 feet apart;
      (2)   Any underground utility signage located abutting a parcel of land
that is developed and completed, such as with an existing valid Mecklenburg
County certificate of occupancy, not utilizing division (E)(1) above, if
possible, shall be limited to flat ground mounted signage installed on top of
handholes or a vault so as to permit a lawn mower to drive over unobstructed.
Flat ground mounted signage shall not exceed half a square foot of signage each
and be a minimum of 300 feet apart;
      (3)   Any underground utility signage located abutting a parcel of land
that is developed and completed, such as with an existing valid Mecklenburg
County certificate of occupancy, not utilizing divisions (E)(1) and (2) above,
where possible, shall be permitted to use a customary round dome utility marker
post. Round dome utility marker posts shall not exceed four inches in diameter
nor exceed 26 inches above ground nor be placed closer than 300 feet apart;
      (4)   Any underground utility signage located abutting a parcel of land
that is vacant or under construction without a valid and completed Mecklenburg
County certificate of occupancy shall utilize divisions (E)(1) and (2) above
where possible. Where (E)(1) and (2) above are not possible, customary round
dome utility marker posts are permitted. Round dome utility marker posts shall
not exceed four inches in diameter nor exceed 26 inches above ground nor be
placed closer than 300 feet apart;
      (5)   Divisions (E)(1) through (4) above shall exclude customary
temporary underground utility markers such as mini-flags, marking paint and
similar in place for 30 days or less;
      (6)   Divisions (E)(1) through (4) above shall exclude customary warning
and identification signage on active utility fixtures such as electric
transformers, gas meters, cable boxes, utility handholes, pedestals, remotes
and similar; and
      (7)   Violations shall be removed and subject to penalty per violation;
see §
10.99.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008; Ord. 2020-01, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 94.048 UTILITY PAVEMENT/SIDEWALK CUTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee is authorized to adopt, amend, and
repeal standards and provisions governing the making, excavation, filling,
repair, and closing of a utility pavement/sidewalk cut. The standards and
provisions may provide that certain activities may be undertaken only in
accordance with a utility work permit issued pursuant to such standards and
provisions. The standards and provisions shall also address emergency
situations and activities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to make, excavate, fill, repair, or close a
utility pavement cut in violation of the standards and provisions adopted
pursuant to division (A).
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to make, excavate, fill, repair, or close a
utility pavement cut without a utility work permit if the standards and
provisions adopted pursuant to division (A) require a permit for such
activities.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.049 LANE CLOSURE/TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee is authorized to adopt, amend, and
repeal standards and provisions governing the closing of any portion of the
right-of-way to vehicular, pedestrian or other traffic, including standards and
requirements for warning and controlling traffic. The standards and provisions
may provide that certain closings or traffic warning and control activities may
be undertaken only in accordance with a utility work permit issued pursuant to
such standards and provisions. The standards and provisions shall also address
emergency situations and activities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to close any portion of the right-
of-way to vehicular, pedestrian, or other traffic without a utility work permit
if the standards and provisions adopted pursuant to division (A) require a
utility work permit for such closing.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.050 ENGLISH PROFICIENCY REQUIRED.
   Any utility, contractor, or subcontractor performing work in a public right-
of-way shall have at least one representative at the work site at all times
when work is being performed who has sufficient proficiency in the English
language to be able to speak with and answer questions from representatives of
the town regarding the work to be or being performed in the public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.051 ADDITIONAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except in an emergency, it shall be unlawful to authorize a contractor
to perform work regulated by this subchapter without first registering such
contractor with the town.
   (B)   If a contractor is performing work on a utility facility in the right-
of-way, it shall be unlawful for the contractor to fail or refuse to properly
identify the utility on whose behalf the contractor is performing the work when
requested to do so by the town.
   (C)   If a subcontractor is performing work on a utility facility in the
right-of-way, it shall be unlawful for the subcontractor to fail or refuse to
properly identify the contractor on whose behalf the subcontractor is
performing the work when requested to do so by the town.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.052 FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Permit and other regulatory and nonregulatory use fees, including but
not limited to utility right-of-way master permit fees, utility work permit
fees, street cut patch fees, and pavement degradation fees, to be charged for
the governmental activities undertaken pursuant to this division shall be
established and revised by Town Council.
   (B)   A cash deposit, letter of credit or warranty bond may be required in
an amount prescribed by the town to guarantee the completion of work in
accordance with all rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.053 PROCESS FOR AMENDING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Prior to amending the standards and provisions authorized in §§
94.047,
94.048, and
94.049, the Town Council or its designee shall provide written notice of such
proposed amendments to all utilities that hold a valid and unexpired utility
right-of-way master permit and provide a reasonable opportunity to comment at
least 30 days before the effective date of such amendments.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.054 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be administered and enforced by the Town Council
or its designee.
   (B)   A violation of this subchapter shall not constitute a misdemeanor or
infraction punishable under G.S. § 14-4. Any person who violates this
subchapter may be subject to all civil and equitable remedies stated in G.S. §
160A-175. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the violation of a stop work order
issued pursuant to §
94.056 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable under G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.055 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   The following civil penalties are established:
      (1)   Violation of §
94.047(A)-(D) = $1,000.
      (2)   Violation of §
94.048(B), (C) = $1000.
      (3)   Violation of §
94.049(B) = $1,000.
      (4)   Violation of §
94.050 = $500.
      (5)   Violation of §
94.051(A) = $500.00; § 94.051(B), (C) = $1,000.
   (B)   Civil penalties authorized by this section may be assessed against the
utility on whose behalf work is being performed and against the contractor or
subcontractor who is performing such work.
   (C)   Billings not paid within 30 days will be assessed a late fee of 1% of
the unpaid balance per month.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.056 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Stop work orders. A stop work order shall be in writing, state the
work to be stopped, state the reasons therefore, and state the conditions under
which the work may be resumed. A stop work order may be issued for:
      (1)   Working in the right-of-way without a valid and unexpired utility
right-of-way master permit or unrevoked and unexpired franchise issued by the
town as required by §
94.045;
      (2)   Use of a contractor that has not been registered with the town
other than in an emergency;
      (3)   Violation of §
94.047(C);
      (4)   Violation of §
94.049(C);
      (5)   Failure to comply with §
94.047(B) within a reasonable period of time after notification of such non-
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to comply with §
94.049(B) within a reasonable period of time after notification of such non-
compliance;
      (7)   Working in the right-of-way without one representative who has
sufficient proficiency in the English language to communicate with
representatives of the town as required by §
94.050;
      (8)   Violation of §
94.051(B);
      (9)   Violation of §
94.051(C).
   (B)   Permit denials. The town may refuse to issue utility work permits
required by this subchapter to a utility that does not possess a valid and
unexpired utility right-of-way master permit or unrevoked and unexpired
franchise as required by §
94.045 or to a utility that is in violation of the terms and conditions of a
utility right-of-way master permit or franchise.
      (1)   The town may refuse to issue utility work permits required by this
subchapter to a utility that has not paid civil penalties within 45 days after
the date the penalties were assessed if the company has not appealed the
assessment, or within 45 days of a final decision on appeal.
      (2)   The town may refuse to issue utility work permits required by this
subchapter to a utility that has not paid costs assessed pursuant to division
(C) within 45 days of the assessment.
   (C)   Cost of remediation. In the event that a utility fails to properly
repair and restore the right-of-way as required by this subchapter, the town
may provide of the repair and restoration and charge the cost to the utility.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 94.057 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person whose utility work permit application has been denied or
who has been assessed a civil penalty may appeal such decision within ten days
after notice of such denial or civil penalty assessment. A utility that has
been charged repair and restoration costs pursuant to §
94.056 may appeal such decision within ten days after the town invoices such
charge. Appeals shall be heard by the Town Administrator or the Town
Administrator's designee who shall not be an employee of the Department of
Transportation. The appellant shall have the right to present evidence at said
hearing.
   (B)   A ruling on appeal is subject to review in the Superior Court of
Mecklenburg County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any petition for
writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the Clerk of Superior Court
within 30 days after notice of the decision has been sent to the appellant.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 9-9-2008)
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 94.060 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   PARADE. An assemblage of more than five vehicles or 20 pedestrians in a
public procession along the streets and/or sidewalks of the town, but shall not
include funeral processions or sightseeing groups or bands or marching groups
proceeding to a point of assembly to participate in a parade.
(1995 Code, § 38-106)
§ 94.061 CONFORMANCE TO SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to initiate, promote or participate in
any parade over the streets and/or sidewalks of the town except in conformance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 38-107) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.062 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to initiate, promote or participate in
any parade within the town until a permit therefor has first been secured.
(1995 Code, § 38-108) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.063 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Parade permits may be obtained from the Town Administrator upon application
made in writing at least 72 hours before the date on which the parade is to be
held, upon application forms furnished by the Town Administrator.
(1995 Code, § 38-109)
§ 94.064 CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE.
   The Town Administrator shall issue parade permits unless he or she finds as
a fact that the proposed parade will be contrary to the health, welfare, safety
and morals of the town.
(1995 Code, § 38-110)
§ 94.065 DENIALS; PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If an application for a parade permit is denied by the Town
Administrator, the applicant may apply to the Mayor and Council for a hearing
concerning the same.
   (B)   At the hearing, the applicant shall have the burden of proof of
showing that the proposed parade will not be contrary to the health, welfare,
safety and morals of the town. The Town Administrator shall be heard in
rebuttal to the granting of the application.
   (C)   If, after hearing, the applicant and the Town Administrator, the Mayor
and Council shall find as a fact that the proposed parade will not be contrary
to the health, welfare, safety and morals of the town, the application shall be
granted by the Mayor and Council. Otherwise, the action of the Town
Administrator in denying the application shall stand.
(1995 Code, § 38-111)
§ 94.066 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All parade permits shall be issued subject to the parade being held in
conformity with all applicable provisions of this code, state law and town
ordinances, rules and regulations. Notwithstanding that a permit for the same
has been issued by the Town Administrator or the Mayor and Council, the Chief
of Police is hereby authorized, empowered and instructed to stop and disburse
any parade conducted in violation of such provisions.
(1995 Code, § 38-112)
§ 94.067 HOURS PERMITTED.
   No parades, or parts thereof, may be upon the streets or sidewalks of the
town between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m.; provided, however, that upon
application and a finding as a fact that to permit a proposed parade to be held
upon the streets or sidewalks of the town during those hours will best serve
the interest of the general public and will not be contrary to the health,
welfare, safety and morals of the town, the Mayor and Council may issue a
permit for a parade to be held during those hours.
(1995 Code, § 38-113) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.068 MAXIMUM NUMBER PER DAY.
   Not more than one parade may be conducted during any one calendar day,
except Saturday.
(1995 Code, § 38-114)
§ 94.069 ROUTES, SCHEDULES.
   Parade routes and schedules must be approved by the Chief of Police, his or
her designee, or the Town Administrator before a permit for the same is
granted. Each participant in the parade must follow the approved parade route
or be in violation of the code.
(1995 Code, § 38-115)
§ 94.070 REGULATION OF PARKING.
   The Chief of Police, when expressly authorized and directed by the Town
Administrator or the Mayor and Council, shall have the authority and duty to
prohibit or restrict parking of vehicles along those parts of the streets of
the town constituting a part of the route of a parade, or at the point of
assembly or dispersal of a parade, for a period of from three hours before its
commencement to one hour after its dispersal. The Chief of Police shall post
signs to that effect and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street unposted in violation of this section.
(1995 Code, § 38-116)
§ 94.071 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances, when the same are
responding to calls.
(1995 Code, § 38-117) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any contractor or any person violating or failing, refusing or
neglecting to comply with § 94.049 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, for each and every offense. By
authority of G.S. § 160A-175(g), each day's continuing offense shall be a
separate and distinct offense. This provision may be enforced by any one, or
all, or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. § 160A-
175. This provision shall be administered and enforced by the Town
Administrator or his or her designee.
(1995 Code, § 38-85) (Ord. 2004-05, passed 10-12-2004)
CHAPTER 95: ADVERTISING
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Posting on poles prohibited
   
95.02   Posting on property of others, consent required
   
95.03   Sound vehicles restricted
   
95.04   Marking of streets, sidewalks, curbs
   
95.05   Misrepresentation of goods prohibited
   
95.06   Misleading advertising or display of goods
   
95.07   Mutilation of signs
   
95.08   Signs, banners across streets
   
95.09   Erection of charitable, civic, religious signs in public rights-of-way
Distribution of Handbills
   
95.30   Definitions
   
95.31   Exceptions to subchapter provisions
   
95.32   Scattering prohibited
   
95.33   License required
   
95.34   Persons acting for others
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate solicitation campaigns, see G.S. § 160A-178
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 POSTING ON POLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post any bills, posters, signs or advertisements on any
telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole along any of the streets of
the town. This section shall not be construed to include street signs, placed
on such poles by the town for designating names of streets. Each sign, poster,
bill or advertisement posted in violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 POSTING ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS, CONSENT REQUIRED.
   No person shall post any bills, signs, posters or advertisements on any
buildings, fences, poles or other property belonging to another without the
consent of the owner thereof. This consent shall be secured in writing, and the
written consent shall be exhibited by the person having the same to any police
officer on demand.
(1995 Code, § 4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 SOUND VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind by the use of any amplifying equipment used by or
mounted on any vehicle, boat or aircraft without first having obtained a permit
therefor from the Town Administrator or Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 MARKING OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS, CURBS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, or attempt to advertise,
by marking or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks within the town. The
curb may only be marked by permit from the town.
(1995 Code, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 MISREPRESENTATION OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, running and conducting a public sale
within the town of any goods, wares or merchandise, to falsely advertise or
misrepresent the same as being imported, or falsely represent the same as to
brand, trademark, quality, weight and texture.
(1995 Code, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 MISLEADING ADVERTISING OR DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, running or conducting any mercantile
business in the town, to display in his or her windows or place of business any
goods, wares or merchandise which are not in fact priced in good faith and
carried in stock for sale in accordance with the display or advertisement so
made. It shall be unlawful for any person to display any misleading
advertisements or displays as to the goods, wares or merchandise actually
carried in stock for sale.
(1995 Code, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 MUTILATION OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to tear, deface, mutilate, take down or in any manner
destroy any advertisement, legal, public or private notice lawfully posted for
public view within the town, except that the owner of the property, upon which
the advertisement or notice has been posted without his or her permission, may
remove the same.
(1995 Code, § 4-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 SIGNS, BANNERS ACROSS STREETS.
   No person shall erect or place any sign or banner of wood, cloth, metal or
other material across any street or sidewalk in the town without permission by
the Town Administrator or Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 ERECTION OF CHARITABLE, CIVIC, RELIGIOUS SIGNS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Signs, banners, billboards and similar structures and objects directly
relating to charitable, historical, religious or other civic services and
nonprofit activities may be installed in the public rights-of-way upon a permit
issued by the Town Administrator or Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 4-9)
DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS
§ 95.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. Includes the scattering, throwing, handing out or any other
means of dispensing circulars, handbills or other printed matter.
(1995 Code, § 4-31)
§ 95.31 EXCEPTIONS TO SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall in no way affect the usual and
customary sales and delivery of newspapers and periodicals, and shall not
prevent the distribution of advertising matter in business buildings or private
residences.
(1995 Code, § 4-32)
§ 95.32 SCATTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall promiscuously distribute handbills or advertisements of any
kind by placing or throwing the same on any street or lot, or otherwise. The
handbills or advertisements shall be enclosed in an envelope, or clipped, and
placed under, or in, the mailbox of each house where such advertising matter is
left.
(1995 Code, § 4-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.33 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed
any circulars, handbills or other written or printed matter for advertising
purposes upon the streets or sidewalks of the town without having first
obtained a license therefor.
(1995 Code, § 4-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.34 PERSONS ACTING FOR OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed
any circulars, handbills or other written or printed matter for advertising
purposes on behalf of any other person unless the other person shall have first
obtained a license therefor. It shall be the duty of any person making the
distribution to inform himself or herself as to whether or not the proper
license has been obtained by the other person.
(1995 Code, § 4-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Prohibited acts
   
96.03   Reimbursement fees
   
96.04   Authority to order disconnection
   
96.05   Authority to waive reimbursement
   
96.06   Liability for payment of reimbursement
   
96.07   Obligations of alarm contractors and alarm users
Cross-reference:
   False fire alarms, see §
92.02
Statutory reference:
   Alarm Systems Licensing Act, see G.S. §§ 74D-1 et seq.
   Authority of cities, see G.S. § 74D-11(c)
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM. Includes any device which initiates a telephone call and delivers a
recorded message to any emergency telephone number assigned to the
communications center or by which a third party telephones any emergency
telephone number and requests enforcement services on the basis of having
received an automatic signal from a subscriber of an alarm service.
   ALARM CONTRACTOR. Any person engaged in the business of selling, leasing,
installing, maintaining and/or monitoring alarm systems installed on the
premises of another for the purpose of protection of the premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any signal
(electronic, visible, audible, silent, recorded or otherwise) which is
designed, intended or used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or premises, or to signal an attempted robbery or holdup, or to alert
others of the commission of an unlawful act in or around a building, structure
or premises.
   ALARM USER. Any person owning or leasing an alarm system, or on whose
premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of the premises.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or
electronic failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the
subscriber, his or her employees or agents, whether or not law enforcement
response was cancelled by the alarm user or his or her agent. A FALSE ALARM
shall not include an alarm which can reasonably be determined to have been
activated by adverse weather conditions, a failure in the electrical power to
the alarm, or other condition beyond the control of the alarm user. In
addition, an alarm activated during an alarm system testing procedure shall not
be considered a FALSE ALARM if the alarm user first notifies and receives
permission from the Police Department and/or communications center to test the
system. An alarm is false within the meaning of this chapter when, upon
inspection by the Chief of Police, evidence indicates that no unauthorized
entry, robbery or other crime was committed or attempted in or on the premises
which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system.
(1995 Code, § 30-51)
§ 96.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate a burglary or robbery
alarm for the purpose of summoning law enforcement when no burglary or robbery
or other crime dangerous to human life is being committed or attempted on the
premises, or to otherwise willfully cause a false alarm to be entered.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail willfully to disconnect
an alarm within 24 hours of receiving an order to do so.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to reconnect an alarm which has been ordered
disconnected by the Chief of Police without written approval from the Chief of
Police.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail willfully to reimburse
the town as provided in §
96.03. It shall be deemed prima facie evidence of willfulness to fail to make
the reimbursement within 30 days of the mailing of the notice of reimbursement
to the last known address of the alarm user.
(1995 Code, § 30-52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 REIMBURSEMENT FEES.
   (A)   First and second false alarms. If, within any 12-month period, the
Police Department responds to one or two false alarms at the same premises or
location, the Chief of Police shall send a notice to the alarm user informing
him or her of the false alarm and encouraging the prevention of future false
alarms.
   (B)   Third and fourth false alarms. If, within any 12-month period, the
Police Department responds to a third or fourth false alarm at the same
premises or location, the alarm user shall reimburse the town for the cost of
responding at a flat rate of $50 for any such response.
   (C)   Fifth and subsequent false alarms. If, within any 12-month period, the
Police Department responds to a fifth or subsequent false alarm at the same
premises or location, the alarm user shall reimburse the town for the cost of
responding at a flat rate of $100 for each response after the fourth.
   (D)   Continuing alarms. An alarm user or his or her representative shall
reset an alarm when notified by the Police Department or communications center
that the alarm has been activated. All audible alarms shall be equipped with an
automatic reset device that will reset and cease to sound the alarm after no
more than 30 minutes of continuous activation. When an alarm activates
continuously for a period of 60 minutes from the time an officer initially
responded to the alarm due to the failure of the alarm user or his or her
representative to reset the alarm, each subsequent 60-minute period or portion
thereof that the alarm continues to be activated shall be considered a separate
false alarm. The alarm user shall reimburse the town for the continuing alarm
at a flat rate of $10 for each false alarm as defined herein, not to exceed
$100 for any 24-hour period. The absence of direct notice to the alarm user or
his or her representative of the activation shall not constitute a defense to
these fees if the Police Department or communications center is not reasonably
able to contact the person due to the failure of the alarm user to conform to
the provisions of §
96.07.
(1995 Code, § 30-53)
§ 96.04 AUTHORITY TO ORDER DISCONNECTION.
   If, within any 12-month period, the Police Department responds to a seventh
or subsequent false alarm at the same premises or location, the Chief of Police
shall order the disconnection of the alarm system by the alarm user. This
disconnected system may be reconnected only upon adequate proof that the
malfunction or system difficulty has been corrected and only upon written
permission of the Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 30-54)
§ 96.05 AUTHORITY TO WAIVE REIMBURSEMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, in his or her sole discretion,
to waive any fee charged to an alarm user when the alarm user submits to the
Chief of Police adequate evidence that the alleged false alarm was not actually
false.
(1995 Code, § 30-55)
§ 96.06 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF REIMBURSEMENT.
   Notwithstanding any contractual agreement between an alarm contractor and an
alarm user, the alarm user shall be liable for payment of any reimbursement due
the town under §
96.03.
(1995 Code, § 30-56)
§ 96.07 OBLIGATIONS OF ALARM CONTRACTORS AND ALARM USERS.
   (A)   Each alarm user in the town shall post in a conspicuous place on the
premises where the alarm system is maintained and shall furnish to the Police
Department the names and telephone number of the person currently authorized
and able to deactivate the alarm system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm contractor or alarm user to activate
an alarm system without first notifying the Chief of Police of the names and
telephone numbers of those persons authorized and able to deactivate the alarm
system.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to provide an
adequate number of responsible persons to permit notification of an activation
at any time and to keep this information current.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm contractor monitoring an
alarm on a contractual basis to notify an alarm user within 24 hours or on the
next business day that a false alarm has occurred with the system under
contract. Failure of the alarm contractor to so notify the alarm user shall in
no way negate the obligations of the alarm user to reimburse the town for false
alarms, but shall subject the alarm contractor to criminal penalties under §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 30-57) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSING
         
111.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
         
112.   YARD, GARAGE AND ATTIC SALES
         
113.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
         
114.   ESCORT AND DATING SERVICES
         
115.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
         
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
117.   MASSAGE PARLORS, HEALTH SALONS AND RELATED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Junkyards to be fenced
Licenses Generally
   
110.015   Purpose
   
110.016   Definitions
   
110.017   Levy of tax
   
110.018   Who must pay tax
   
110.019   Notice to taxpayer presumed
   
110.020   Period of license; due date
   
110.021   Proration of tax
   
110.022   Refunds
   
110.023   Tax based on gross receipts
   
110.024   Exemptions
   
110.025   Free licenses prohibited; exception
License Application and Issuance
   
110.040   Application
   
110.041   Reasons for refusal or revocation
   
110.042   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
110.043   Collector of Revenue to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.044   Amount of tax disputed
   
110.045   Late penalties, revocation
   
110.046   Form and contents of license
   
110.047   Change in the business during the tax year; fee for reissuance of
license
   
110.048   Collector of Revenue to furnish duplicates
   
110.049   Record of conferences
   
110.050   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
Enforcement and Collection of Tax; Schedule
   
110.065   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
110.066   Collector of Revenue; authority to investigate
   
110.067   Duty to keep books
   
110.068   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.069   Duty to post
   
110.070   Notice of deficiency; request for conference
   
110.071   Conference held
   
110.072   Collection of deficiency
   
110.073   Enforcement of subchapter
   
110.074   Taxpayer's remedies
   
110.075   Schedule for town businesses
   
110.076   Vendors at town-sponsored events
   
Appendix A:   License schedule
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to regulate and license businesses, see G.S. §§ 160A-194,
160A-211
   License taxes generally, see G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 JUNKYARDS TO BE FENCED.
   Each junkyard located within the town shall have a fence at least eight feet
in height around the yard. The fence shall be constructed so as to effectively
obstruct vision into the fenced area.
(1995 Code, § 14-1)
LICENSES GENERALLY
§ 110.015 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to raise funds for general municipal
purposes. Therefore, it should be construed to require payment of the maximum
tax permitted for the privilege of carrying on a business, trade, profession,
calling or occupation within the corporate limits of the town. In addition,
issuance of a license pursuant to this subchapter does not excuse the licensee
from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This subchapter
does not prevent the town from imposing license taxes on additional businesses,
from increasing or decreasing the amount of any license tax, or from regulating
any business taxes.
(1995 Code, § 14-16) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business and
franchise taxed under this subchapter.
   PERSON. Includes but is not limited to any individual, trustee, executor,
other fiduciary, corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole
proprietorship, company, firm or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL.  A business is SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted for profit
six months out of the year or less.
(1995 Code, § 14-17) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.017 LEVY OF TAX.
   An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each business conducted
within this town listed in §
110.075 and
Appendix A to this chapter in the amount set forth in that section.
(1995 Code, § 14-18) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.018 WHO MUST PAY TAX.
   Each person who conducts a business within the town is subject to this
subchapter. A person conducts business when he or she engages in business
within the town if he or she maintains a business location in the town, or if,
either personally or through agents, he or she:
   (A)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
   (B)   Picks up or delivers goods or delivers services within the town
limits.
(1995 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Special events license for non-town businesses, see §
110.076
§ 110.019 NOTICE TO TAXPAYER PRESUMED.
   Each person who conducts a business may be subject to a business license. It
is the duty of the taxpayer to verify what the requirements are. If licenses
are not paid, the proceedings allowed by law may be taken against the business.
This notice shall be conclusively presumed, whether or not the persons have
actual notice.
(1995 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.020 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual. Unless otherwise specified, the license issued pursuant to
this subchapter is valid for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending
June 30. The taxes are due and payable no later than July 1 of each year.
However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of the year, the tax for
that year shall be due and payable before the business is begun.
   (B)   Periods shorter than one year. If the section of this subchapter
levying the privilege license tax applicable to the particular business so
provides, a license may be issued for a period of one day, one week or some
comparable period of less than a full year. A person may not commence a
business conducted within the town, and taxed under such a provision until the
privilege license tax due is paid, and may not continue the business beyond the
period for which the license is issued.
(1995 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.021 PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after December 31 and before July 1, the amount of
tax due under this subchapter is half the amount otherwise due unless otherwise
provided.
(1995 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.022 REFUNDS.
   (A)   None for discontinued business. Except as otherwise provided, there
shall be no refund of license taxes to businesses licensed under this
subchapter that are discontinued during the license year.
   (B)   Licensees entering armed forces; requirements. A new licensee under
this subchapter who enters the armed forces of the United States and, as a
result thereof, the operation of the business for which the license was issued
ceases and terminates and who, within 30 days after an induction into the armed
forces, makes an application to the Collector of Revenue of the town for same
shall be entitled to a return of the license fee in proportion to the number of
full months remaining in the license.
(1995 Code, § 14-23) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.023 TAX BASED ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Requirements. Except as provided in division (D) of this section, if a
license tax required by this subchapter is based upon gross receipts, the
applicant for a business privilege license shall be required to submit the
amount of its gross receipts from the license tax year immediately preceding in
such detail and in such manner as the office of the Collector of Revenue may
require.
   (B)   Procedures. If a license tax required under this subchapter is based
on gross receipts, and more than 50% of the receipts are derived from an
activity for which there is a single classification in this chapter, the
licensee may compute its license tax by applying all gross receipts per
location to the rate established for the selected classification and purchase
only one license per location. The licensee, however, may be subject to
additional license taxes which the state authorizes the town to levy, depending
on the licensee's business, and for which a separate license must be purchased.
   (C)   Definition. The term GROSS RECEIPTS, as used in this section, means
all earnings, receipts, fees, commissions, brokerage charges, rentals and
income whatsoever arising from or growing out of the conduct of the business,
occupation or profession licensed under this chapter during the license tax
year immediately preceding the license tax year for which the tax is being
computed, without any deduction whatsoever, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   (D)   Exception. Any business that pays the maximum annual tax on its gross
receipts shall not be required to submit the amount of its gross receipts in
order to purchase a license.
   (E)   Confidentiality of information. All information regarding gross
receipts or other information furnished or secured under the authority of this
subchapter shall be kept in strict confidence by the office of the Collector of
Revenue, its officials and employees; shall not be subject or open to public
inspection; and, except as provided in this subchapter, shall be utilized
solely by the office of the Collector of Revenue, its officials and employees
for administering the provisions of this subchapter; provided, however,
summaries of this information may be shared with appropriate town officials and
employees for purposes of research and analysis.
(1995 Code, § 14-24) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.024 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from the payment of a privilege license tax levied by
this subchapter.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose, when
the entire gross income of the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this subchapter.
   (C)   Blind persons and members of the armed forces and merchant marine.
Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States armed forces or the
merchant marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
subchapter.
   (D)   Residential and commercial rental properties. Persons engaged in the
leasing of residential and/or commercial properties are exempt from paying any
privilege license tax levied by this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 14-25) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995; Ord. 2011-03, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 110.025 FREE LICENSES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No free license under this subchapter shall be granted except to disabled
veterans for peddling, provided the peddling is done on foot and not from any
vehicle. Any such person must be approved by the County Director of Veteran's
Affairs in order for the license to be granted.
(1995 Code, § 14-26) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 110.040 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All persons, before engaging in any business, trade, profession,
calling or occupation or doing any act on which a license tax is imposed by
this subchapter, shall, except as provided in this subchapter, apply in writing
on the form designated by the Collector of Revenue for a license. The
application must be signed by an official or designated representative.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on the forms provided by the
Collector of Revenue, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed, as required
by this subchapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number of the state
license that the applicant currently holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the Collector of Revenue determines to be
necessary to compute the amount of tax due.
   (C)   Each new application or an established business moving to a new
location must be approved as to zoning requirements by the town before the
license shall be issued.
   (D)   Each applicant must comply with other sections of this subchapter
concerning health, police, fire or building standards department requirements
as provided, before the license shall be issued.
(1995 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.041 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION.
   The Collector of Revenue shall refuse to issue or shall revoke a license
required by this subchapter for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or the qualifications for a license;
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due; or
   (C)   The applicant fails or refuses to provide all information called for
in the application.
(1995 Code, § 14-32) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.042 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application under §
110.040, if the Collector of Revenue believes that a reason exists for refusing
a license under §
110.041, the Collector of Revenue shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and
shall not issue the license. At the applicant's request, the Collector of
Revenue shall, in accordance with §
110.050, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within ten days after the statement is received,
request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the request the applicant shall
specify why the application should not be refused. The Collector of Revenue
shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may reapply
for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the application
was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Collector of Revenue shall issue the license in compliance
with §
110.043.
(1995 Code, § 14-33) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.043 COLLECTOR OF REVENUE TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application under §
110.040, if the Collector of Revenue believes that no reason exists for refusal
of a license under §
110.041, the Collector of Revenue shall determine the amount of tax due and
notify the applicant of that amount. The Collector of Revenue shall not issue a
license until the tax is paid.
(1995 Code, § 14-34) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.044 AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   If disputes arise over the amount the Collector of Revenue determines to be
due under this subchapter, the applicant may either refuse to pay and request a
conference with the Collector of Revenue to discuss the determination or pay
the amount and request a conference to discuss the right to a refund. If a
conference is requested, the Collector of Revenue shall arrange it within a
reasonable time.
(1995 Code, § 14-35) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.045 LATE PENALTIES, REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Collector of Revenue shall revoke a license issued under this
subchapter if a reason exists to revoke it as set forth in §
110.041. Before revoking a license, the Collector of Revenue shall give the
licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation in accordance with §
110.050. The licensee may within ten days after the day on which notice is
served request a conference with the Collector of Revenue in writing. The
request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The
Collector of Revenue shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time. If
the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after the day on
which notice is served, the Collector of Revenue shall revoke the license. If
the licensee requests a conference, the Collector may not revoke the license
until after the conference. If the Collector of Revenue revokes a license, the
former licensee may apply for a new license at any time thereafter. If the
reason for which the license was revoked no longer exists and if no other
reason exists for refusing to issue a license, the Collector of Revenue shall
issue the license in accordance with §
110.043.
   (B)   All license taxes imposed by this subchapter, excluding beer, wine,
and taxicabs shall be due and payable in advance by July 2, and if any person
shall fail to pay any license tax required by this subchapter by that date,
there shall be assessed an additional tax equal to 5% of the amount prescribed
for the license per month, or any fraction thereof until paid. The penalty,
however, shall not be less than $5. Beer and wine licenses must be paid in
advance by May 2 and taxicab licenses must be paid by January 3. If delinquent,
the penalty described in this division will also apply to these licenses.
   (C)   No license shall be granted until the license tax plus the additional
tax assessed has been paid. The addition of 5% per month on the amount of the
license tax shall not exempt the delinquent from the penalties prescribed in
case of delinquency.
   (D)   All licenses imposed on businesses under §
110.021 shall be paid prior to the beginning of such business. If not paid
within 30 days, the penalties provided in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
shall apply from the date the business began.
   (E)   Upon the revocation of any license, it shall be unlawful for the
person to whom the license is granted to continue to conduct the business.
(1995 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.046 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A license under this subchapter shall show the name of the person licensed,
the place where the business is conducted if it is to be conducted at one
place, the nature of the business licensed, the period for which the license is
issued, and the amount of tax paid. In addition, if a machine is licensed, the
license shall show the serial number of the machine. The Collector of Revenue
shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(1995 Code, § 14-37) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.047 CHANGE IN THE BUSINESS DURING THE TAX YEAR; FEE FOR REISSUANCE OF
LICENSE.
   A licensee under this subchapter shall report a change in the information
contained in the license application to the Collector of Revenue within ten
days after the change occurs. If the information shown on the license itself is
affected thereby, the licensee shall surrender the license to the Collector of
Revenue when reporting the change. The Collector of Revenue shall reissue a
license reflecting the change upon payment of a fee of $5. The license shall be
subject to cancellation for failure to comply with this section.
(1995 Code, § 14-38) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.048 COLLECTOR OF REVENUE TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license under this subchapter has been lost
or destroyed, the Collector of Revenue shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of
$5.
(1995 Code, § 14-39) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.049 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Collector of Revenue shall maintain for three years a record of each
conference held in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain
the applicant's or licensee's name, the date of the conference and a brief
statement of the issues discussed and the result reached. After three years,
the Collector of Revenue shall dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. §
121-5.
(1995 Code, § 14-40) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.050 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this subchapter requires the Collector of Revenue to give a written
statement or notice to an applicant or licensee, the Collector of Revenue may
do so in one of three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail
with return receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in the
license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(1995 Code, § 14-41) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX; SCHEDULE
§ 110.065 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   (A)   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this subchapter, and if so, whether that tax has been
paid for the current tax year.
   (B)   No license shall be transferable or assignable.
   (C)   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax
must be paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business
under common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with
and open into each other and are operated as a unit.
(1995 Code, § 14-46) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.066 COLLECTOR OF REVENUE; AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Collector of Revenue has reason to believe that a person is
conducting a business in the town in violation of this subchapter, he or she
shall conduct an investigation to determine the person's tax liability.
(1995 Code, § 14-47) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.067 DUTY TO KEEP BOOKS.
   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this subchapter, whose
license is based on gross sales/receipts, shall keep all records and books
necessary to compute his or her tax liability. If a person fails to keep books
and records as required, the Collector of Revenue shall make his or her own
determination of that person's tax liability from the information available to
him or her.
(1995 Code, § 14-48) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.068 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in this town shall permit the Collector of
Revenue, or his or her agent, to inspect the business premises during normal
business hours to determine the nature of the business conducted there and to
examine the books and records to determine the amount of business transacted.
(1995 Code, § 14-49) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.069 DUTY TO POST.
   (A)   A licensee under this subchapter shall post the license or licenses
conspicuously in the place of business licensed. Failure to post this license
shall raise the presumption of not being a licensed business.
   (B)   If there is no regular place of business, the license must be kept
where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town officials.
   (C)   Each coin-operated machine, device or other equipment for which the
town privilege license is required shall have affixed thereto, in a conspicuous
place, a sticker as provided by the Collector of Revenue, indicating that the
privilege license tax has been paid. Failure to display this sticker shall
raise a presumption that the machine, device or other equipment is operated by
the owner and/or tenant of the premises, whereupon that person shall be
responsible for payment of all town taxes and penalties which may be due and
payable.
   (D)   Every coin-operated machine, equipment or device on which a town
privilege license is required shall have affixed thereto, in a conspicuous
place, identification showing the name and address of the owner, operator,
distributor or other person responsible for the coin-operated machine. Failure
to display this information shall indicate the machines or devices are owned by
the operator on the location, as set forth in division (C) of this section.
(1995 Code, § 14-50) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.070 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY; REQUEST FOR CONFERENCE.
   (A)   If the Collector of Revenue determines that a person has not paid the
full amount of tax due under this subchapter, either for the current license
year or for a prior license year, the Collector of Revenue shall give the
person written notice of the deficiency, in accordance with §
110.050. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due;
the section of this subchapter upon which the tax is based; the amount of tax
paid, the interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which
the person may respond to the notice of the deficiency; and the consequences of
failing to respond as specified.
   (B)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference in writing. The request shall specify the person's
objections to the notice of deficiency.
   (C)   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under division (B) of
this section, the deficiency becomes final and the Collector of Revenue shall
proceed to collect the deficiency.
(1995 Code, § 14-51) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.071 CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference under §
110.070, the Collector of Revenue shall not proceed to collect the deficiency
until hearing the taxpayer's objections in determining that the deficiency
should become final. The Collector of Revenue shall maintain, for three years,
a record of each conference held in accordance with §
110.070(B). The records shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference, a brief statement of the issues discussed, and the results of the
discussion. After three years, the Collector of Revenue shall dispose of the
record in compliance with G.S. § 121-5.
(1995 Code, § 14-52) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.072 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The Collector of Revenue may use any of the following methods to
collect a deficiency in the tax due under this subchapter:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.073(A);
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.073(B);
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the town in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this subchapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional
tax of 5% every 30 days as imposed by G.S. § 105-109.
(1995 Code, § 14-53) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.073 ENFORCEMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the town without having
paid the privilege license tax imposed, or without a valid license issued
pursuant to this subchapter, or without posting a license pursuant to §
110.069, is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this
section does not relieve a person who has liability for taxes imposed under
this subchapter.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth
above, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town may seek an injunction against
any person conducting a business in violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Garnishment and levy remedies. The Collector of Revenue may set forth
the sale of tangible personal property (levy) or attach wages, rents, bank
deposits and other compensation (garnish) to eliminate any delinquent license
tax in accordance with G.S. § 105-368 and G.S. § 160A-207.
(1995 Code, § 14-54) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.074 TAXPAYER'S REMEDIES.
   (A)   Assertions of valid defense. Any taxpayer asserting a valid defense to
the enforcement of the collection of any license levied in this subchapter
shall proceed as provided in this section.
      (1)   A valid defense shall include the following:
         (a)   License imposed through clerical error;
         (b)   An illegal license; and
         (c)   A license levied for an illegal purpose.
      (2)   If the license has been paid, the taxpayer, in any time within
three years after the license became due, may make a demand for a refund of the
license paid by submitting to the Town Council a written statement of his or
her defense and a request for a refund thereof.
   (B)   Action of governing body. Upon receiving a taxpayer's written
statement of defense and request for release or refund, the Town Council shall
within 90 days after receipt of the request determine whether the taxpayer has
a valid defense to the license imposed or any part thereof and shall either
release or refund that portion of the amount that is determined to be in excess
of the correct license liability or notify the taxpayer in writing that no
release or refund will be made. The action of the Town Council and applications
for refunds shall be recorded in its minutes. If a refund is made, the Finance
Department shall forward the refund to the Collector of Revenue, who shall note
on all records the amount of refund, check number and date.
   (C)   Suit for recovery of license taxes. If within 90 days after receiving
a taxpayer's request for refund or release under division (A) of this section,
the Town Council has failed to refund the full amount requested by the
taxpayer, has notified the taxpayer that no refund will be made, or has taken
no action on the request, the taxpayer may bring a civil action against the
town for the amount claimed. The action may be brought at any time within three
years from the expiration of the period in which the Town Council is required
to act.
   (D)   Civil action. Civil action brought pursuant to division (C) of this
section shall be brought in the appropriate division of the general court of
justice in the county. If, upon the trial, it is determined that the license or
any part of it was illegal, or levied for any illegal purpose, or excessive as
a result of a clerical error, judgment shall be rendered therefor with interest
thereon at 6% per annum plus costs. The judgment shall be collected as in other
civil actions.
(1995 Code, § 14-55)
§ 110.075 SCHEDULE FOR TOWN BUSINESSES.
   Listed in
Appendix A to this chapter is the schedule of privilege license taxes for the
various businesses located in the town.
(1995 Code, § 14-56) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
§ 110.076 VENDORS AT TOWN-SPONSORED EVENTS.
   Individuals and groups that do not normally do business in the town, and
therefore do not have a valid town privilege license, may obtain a special
events license for use at all town-sponsored events within the 12-month period
beginning July 1 and ending June 30. Issuance of a special events license does
not excuse the licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or
statute, including but not limited to Health Department permits.
 
Non-Town Business; Criteria Fee
SPECIAL EVENTS license fee  $25
 
(Ord. 2009-02, passed 3-10-2009)
APPENDIX A: LICENSE SCHEDULE
   Below is the schedule of privilege license taxes for the various businesses
located in the town. Any classification with an asterisk (*) placed before it
must have Health Department permits. Businesses that do not normally do
business in town and thus do not have a town privilege license, see §
110.076.
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                           Fee
SCHEDULE A FEES:   Fees for all businesses not specifically listed in Schedule B below, are
calculated using the formula below:
   (a) Per $1,000.00 of annual gross receipts                                  $0.60
   (b) Minimum                                                                 $50.00
   (c) Maximum (eff. July 1, 2012)                                             $7,500.00
SCHEDULE B FEES:   Businesses specifically listed below will pay according to the fee
listed for that business.
   A
ADVERTISING. Every person who or which is engaged in the business of outdoor
advertising by means of signboards, poster boards or printed bulletins or any     $35.00
other outdoor advertising devices erected upon grounds, walls or roofs of
buildings, or other advertising
AMUSEMENTS                                                                        $25.00
AUTO REPAIR GARAGES                                                               $12.50
AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLY DEALERS AT WHOLESALE OR DISTRIBUTING AGENCIES OR
WAREHOUSES:
   (a) Every person engaged in receiving, buying, selling, distributing,
exchanging or delivering automotive accessories, parts, tires, tools, fuels,      $37.50
lubricants, batteries or other automotive equipment or supplies, any or all of
the above at wholesale, for each place of business
   (b) Every person engaged in the business of selling wholesale and having no $25.00
place of business but selling to retail dealers by use of some form of vehicle
   The word “wholesale” shall apply to those who receive, buy, sell, distribute,
exchange or deliver to retail dealers, or sell otherwise to the consumer.
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                        Fee
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATIONS AND REPAIRING. Every person engaged in the
servicing of motor vehicles, trailers or semi-trailers, or engaged in
servicing, selling or delivering to the user or consumer parts, tires, tools,  $12.50
batteries, electric equipment or supplies, motor fuels or lubricants, any or
all of the above. Provided that the license shall be paid for each place of
business so operated or maintained, each
   B
*BARBERSHOPS, each barber                                                      $2.50
*BEAUTY PARLORS, each operator (which includes but is not limited to           $2.50
manicurists, cosmetologists, beauticians)
*BEER LICENSES:
   (a) On premises                                                          $15.00
   (b) Off premises                                                         $5.00
   (c) Wholesale beer                                                       $37.50
   (d) Wholesale wine and beer (chain stores per State Revenue Act being G.S$62.60
§§ 105-1 et seq.). (Subject to approval of Police Department)
BICYCLES, each dealer or agent selling, renting or repairing                   $25.00
BOARDINGHOUSES. See Hotels and Restaurants.
BOWLING ALLEYS, whether used or not, each alley                                $10.00
BUILDING CONTRACTORS, provided building contractor holds state license, as     $10.00
required by G.S. § 87-10
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                       Fee
   C
CHAIN STORES OR BRANCH STORES OR ESTABLISHMENTS. Each store over one, in      $50.00
addition to merchants’ tax
CHRISTMAS TREES. Dealers in Christmas trees and perishable Christmas          $50.00
decorations, not prorated, for each lot
CIRCUSES. Circuses, menageries, wild west, dog and pony shows, and like       $25.00
amusements, per day
   An additional tax is levied on any show or exhibition that plays in the
town, or within five miles thereof, during the week of an agricultural fair.  $500.00
This additional tax is for each performance
COLLECTION OR CLAIM AGENCIES. Every person engaged in the business of
operating for profit a collection agency for the purpose of collecting the    $50.00
bills, notes, or to pay other indebtedness from one person in favor of
another
   Collection agencies or claim agencies must have a state license before
receiving a town license.
CONTRACTORS constructing streets, pavements, sidewalks, storm sewers,
bridges, railroads, grading, excavating or other class of improvements
(except buildings) shall, before any such work, procure from the Town         $10.00
Engineer a permit to do same, which permit shall not be granted until the
license tax is paid; further, contractor must hold state license as required
by G.S. § 87-10
   Application for contractors license must be approved by Town Engineer.
   D
DRY CLEANERS                                                                  $25.00
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                         Fee
   E
ELECTRICIANS                                                                    $50.00
ELECTRONIC SWEEPSTAKES:
   (a) Each machine, plus                                                    $1,000.00
   (b) Each location                                                         $2,500.00
ELEVATORS OR SPRINKLER SYSTEMS, selling and/or installing                       $100.00
EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES                                                             $100.00
EXPRESS COMPANIES, MOTOR AND RAILWAY. State Revenue Act being G.S. §§ 105-1 et$75.00
seq. 
   F
FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS:
   (a) Firearms sale and/or manufacturers, including but not limited to rifle$50.00
handguns, shotguns and the like
   (b) Dealer in Bowie knives, darts, slingshots, leaded canes, iron or      $200.00
metallic knuckles or similar weapons
   G
GAMES. For sports or plays operated for profit                                  $25.00
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                                  Fee
   H
HEALTH MASSAGE/BODY WORK THERAPIST                                                       $50.00
HEATING CONTRACTORS, hot air and air conditioning                                        $50.00
*HOTELS, MOTELS, TOURIST COURTS AND TOURIST HOMES. Every person engaged in the business
of operating any hotel or motel, tourist court, tourist home or similar place            $1.00
advertising in any manner for transient patronage, or soliciting such business, in the
town, for each room
   Minimum tax                                                                        $25.00
   (a) The lobby, club room, office, dining room, kitchen and rooms occupied by the
owner or lessee of the premises, or members of his or her family, for his, her or their
personal and private use, shall not be counted in determining the number of rooms for
the basis of the tax.
   (b) The terms “hotel,” “motel,” “tourist court,” “tourist home” and “advertising in
any manner” referred to in this section shall be given the meaning as specified in G.S.
§ 72-50.
   (c) The tax provided for in this section shall apply whether the rental charges are
made to patrons on a daily, weekly, biweekly or monthly basis. It is immaterial as to
any particular room whether the room is occupied by a “permanent” guest.
   I
*ICE CREAM:
   (a) Manufacturers or wholesale dealers at one-fourth of the amount levied by the
state.
   (b) Ice cream dealers at retail                                                    $2.50
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                 Fee
   J
[RESERVED]
   K
[RESERVED]
   L
LAUNDRIES, LAUNDERETTES, LAUNDERALLS AND SIMILAR TYPES OF BUSINESS.
Each steam or electric laundry, including wet or damp wash laundry, and $50.00
each business supplying or renting clean linen or towels or wearing
apparel which operates within the town limits
LOAN COMPANIES. Persons lending money on personal securities, such as
household and kitchen articles, watches, jewelry, automobiles and the   $100.00
like, by mortgage, pledge or otherwise, pawnbrokers excepted
   M
MANICURING, each operator                                               $2.50
MASSAGISTS                                                              $25.00
MERCHANT, ITINERANT, cash or money order. Merchant, other than an
established retail merchant in the town who transports goods to a       $100.00
building, vacant lot or alley and the like, and offers for sale at
retail for less than six consecutive months
   Must comply with G.S. § 105-53.
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                          Fee
MOTION PICTURE SHOWS:
   (a) Indoor, per screen                                                     $200.00
   (b) For any indoor theater operated three days or less per week, per screen$100.00
   (c) Drive-in, per screen                                                   $100.00
MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS:
   (a) Every person engaged in the business of buying, selling, distributing,
servicing, storing, or exchanging motor vehicles, trailers, semi-trailers,
tires, tools, batteries, electrical equipment, lubricants or automotive          $25.00
equipment, radios designed exclusively for use in automobiles, and supplies, for
each place of business
   (b) Any person who deals exclusively in motor fuels and lubricants and who
has paid the tax levied under AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATIONS AND REPAIRING herein
may not be taxed under this section or under AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLY
DEALERS AT WHOLESALE OR DISTRIBUTING AGENCIES OR WAREHOUSES.
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                          Fee
   (c) If any business taxed under this division is of a seasonal, temporary, $300.00
transient or itinerant nature, each location
MOTORCYCLE DEALERS OR SERVICE PLACES. Every person engaged in buying, selling,
servicing, distributing or exchanging motorcycles, motorcycle supplies or        $12.50
equipment, for each place of business so operated
MUSIC BOX OR MACHINES, each                                                      $5.00
   License must be attached to machine before being placed in operation.
   N
[RESERVED]
   O
OIL DEALERS IN ILLUMINATING, LUBRICATING AND/OR FUEL OILS, who have an agency,
station or warehouse for the distribution of these commodities in the town:
   Benzine, naphtha, gasoline and other products of like kind                 $25.00
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING                                                              $35.00
   P
PAID PARKING LOTS:
                                                                                 6% of
   (a) 6% of gross sales, plus                                                gross
                                                                                 sales
   (b) Each location                                                          $2,000.00
PAWNBROKERS                                                                      $100.00
PHONOGRAPHS, GRAMOPHONES OR TALKING MACHINES, and/or records and accessories:
   (a) Each dealer or agent                                                   $5.00
   (b) Service or repair                                                      $5.00
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                         Fee
PIANO OR ORGAN DEALERS                                                          $5.00
PLUMBERS                                                                        $50.00
POOL TABLES, POCKET BILLIARDS OR BAGATELLE TABLES, unless used for private      $25.00
amusement alone without charge
   The above tax shall apply whether the pool tables are operated by slot or
otherwise.
PUSHCART                                                                        $50.00
   R
RADIO AND/OR TELEVISION ACCESSORIES:
   (a) Each dealer or agent                                                  $5.00
   (b) Repair or service                                                     $5.00
*RESTAURANTS, LUNCHSTANDS, COUNTERS OR CAFES:
   (a) Less than 5 seats                                                     $0.50
   (b) More than 5 seats                                                     $25.00
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                          Fee
   S
SKATING RINKS                                                                    $25.00
SPECIALTY MARKET OPERATOR. Person who rents space, other than a permanent retail
store, to others for the purpose of selling goods at retail or offering goods    $200.00
for sale at retail
   Must comply with G.S. § 72-50.
SUNDRIES LICENSE TAX. The sundries license shall be procured and tax paid on any
one or more of the following business activities:
   (a) Sale of sandwiches in drugstores, service stations or any stands or
places not licensed and taxed as a restaurant.
   (b) Operating, maintaining or placing on location any of the following types
of dispensers or machines:
      (1) Dispensers of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
      (2) Dispensers of soft drinks;
      (3) Dispensers of food or other merchandise;
      (4) Weighing machines.
   (c) Operating a soda fountain or soft drink stand.
   (d) Retailing or jobbing cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, snuff or any
other tobacco product.
   License for each location, regardless of the number of activities engaged i$4.00
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria                                                        Fee
   T
TOBACCO WAREHOUSES                                                             $50.00
   U
UNDERTAKERS                                                                    $50.00
   V
VIDEO GAMES. Each electronic video game’s serial number must be shown on the $5.00
application. The license must be shown in a conspicuous place. Each machine
VIDEO MOVIES, selling, leasing, furnishing and/or distributing                 $25.00
   W
WINE LICENSE, from May 1 to April 30, not prorated:
   (a) *On premises                                                         $15.00
   (b) Off premises                                                         $10.00
   (c) Wholesale wine                                                       $37.50
   (d) Chain stores, per State Revenue Act being G.S. §§ 105-1 et seq.,
subject to approval of Police Department.
 
Town Business; Criteria Fee
Town Business; Criteria Fee
   X
[RESERVED]
   Y
[RESERVED]
   Z
[RESERVED]
 
(1995 Code, § 14-56) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995; Ord. 2005-06, passed 5-9-2006;
Ord. 2011-03, passed 11-15-2011; Ord. 2012-03, passed 6-12-2012; Ord. 2012-05,
passed 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Invitation to dwellings required
   
111.02   Sale of goods on streets; peddlers
Permits
   
111.15   Application; fee
   
111.16   Bond required
   
111.17   Issuance
   
111.18   Duration
   
111.19   Contents
   
111.20   Display
   
111.21   Revocation
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate peddlers and solicitors, see G.S. § 160A-178
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 INVITATION TO DWELLINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, unless with the prior permission or invitation
of the owner or occupant, for any person to enter upon any privately owned
premises in the town used as a dwelling for the purpose of soliciting orders
for the immediate or future delivery of goods, merchandise or services,
specifically including the taking of subscriptions for magazines.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to solicitation for charitable, civic,
religious or patriotic purposes by persons who serve without compensation or
remuneration, provided those persons shall have first obtained a permit from
the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
(1995 Code, § 14-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 SALE OF GOODS ON STREETS; PEDDLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale or peddle
goods, wares or merchandise upon the public streets or public parking lots of
the town; provided, however, this section shall not apply to vendors selling
fresh produce.
(1995 Code, § 14-67) (Ord. 5, passed 3-19-1996; Ord. 7, passed 9-10-1996)
Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMITS
§ 111.15 APPLICATION; FEE.
   Any person desiring a permit to engage in business as a peddler within the
town shall make written application to the town, which application shall show
and contain the following:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The name and address of the person, if any, that the applicant
represents;
   (C)   The kind of goods or services offered for sale;
   (D)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand, accept or
receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (E)   The period of time the applicant wishes to engage in that business
within the town;
   (F)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, and
if so, the complete circumstances thereof;
   (G)   The last five cities wherein the applicant has worked before coming to
the town; and
   (H)   An application fee of $5.
(1995 Code, § 14-82)
§ 111.16 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
subchapter, the applicant therefor shall furnish a bond in the penal sum of
$1,000 to the town signed by the applicant and signed as surety by some surety
company authorized to do business in the state, conditioned upon the final
delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, services, photographs, magazines and
newspapers in accordance with the terms of any order obtained prior to delivery
and also conditioned to indemnify any and all purchasers or customers for any
and all defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the article sold
by the principal on the bond, at the time of delivery, and that may be
discovered by the purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery. The bond
shall be for the use and benefit of all persons that may make any purchase or
give any order to the principal on the bond, or to any agent or employee of the
principal.
   (B)   Only one bond shall be required of each applicant, even though the
applicant shall have one or more agents or employees; provided, the bond shall
be made to cover the activities of all of the agents or employees.
   (C)   Applicants soliciting for charitable, civic, religious or patriotic
purposes without compensation or remuneration shall be exempt from the bond
requirement.
(1995 Code, § 14-83)
§ 111.17 ISSUANCE.
   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this subchapter until the
applicant shall have complied with all the provisions and requirements of this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 14-84)
§ 111.18 DURATION.
   Every permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be valid
for a period of 24 hours.
(1995 Code, § 14-85)
§ 111.19 CONTENTS.
   Each permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be signed
by the Town Administrator or designee, shall be dated as of the date of its
issuance and shall state the duration or term of the license on the face
thereof. Any license not dated and signed as required in this section, or which
was issued in violation of this section, shall be void.
(1995 Code, § 14-86)
§ 111.20 DISPLAY.
   Every peddler licensed under the provisions of this subchapter and doing
business within the town shall display his or her permit upon the request of
any person. Failure to display the license shall be deemed a misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 14-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.21 REVOCATION.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked for
the violation by the permittee of any applicable provision of this code, state
law or town ordinance, rule or regulation.
(1995 Code, § 14-88)
CHAPTER 112: YARD, GARAGE AND ATTIC SALES
Section
   
112.01   Privilege tax on garage and attic sales
   
112.02   Signs
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PRIVILEGE TAX ON GARAGE AND ATTIC SALES.
   (A)   Restriction. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to conduct more than four garage or attic sales in a residentially zoned area
at any given address to any given name in any one fiscal year. Each sale may be
held for two consecutive days.
   (B)   Enforcement. Zoning inspectors or police officers are empowered to
enforce this section, including the issuance of citations.
(1995 Code, § 14-111) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs advertising yard sales must be freestanding. No person shall
post a sign advertising yard sales on any telephone, telegraph, electric light
or other pole along any of the streets of the town.
   (B)   All freestanding signs must be taken down within 24 hours after the
yard sale has ended.
(1995 Code, § 14-112) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
112.01. A citation for the first offense of conducting an unlicensed or
unlawful sale shall be $25, for the second offense shall be $50, and for the
third or any subsequent offense shall be for $100. The citation may be
enforced, if unpaid, by either the issuance of a criminal summons, or it shall
constitute a civil penalty to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the
nature of a debt. Use of citations as a means of enforcement shall not preclude
the town from exercising any other remedy by the immediate issuance of a
criminal summons or the securing of an injunction, nor shall it prohibit a
police officer from exercising any of his or her lawful authority.
(1995 Code, § 14-111) (Ord. passed 5-30-1995)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Intent and purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Franchise required; application
   
113.04   Acceptance; indemnification; effective date of franchise
   
113.05   Nature and duration of franchise; termination; transfer
   
113.06   Authority granted by franchise; prohibitions upon engaging in certain
business; installation standards
   
113.07   Conditions upon use of streets
   
113.08   Permits, installation and service
   
113.09   Operational requirements
   
113.10   Remuneration to town
   
113.11   Rights reserved to town
   
113.12   Franchise area and extension of service
   
113.13   Expense reimbursement to town
Cross-reference:
   Franchises, see also
Table of Special Ordinances II
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose a franchise tax on cable television companies, see G.S.
§ 160A-178
   Authority to regulate, see G.S. § 160A-312
§ 113.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   For the better protection of the public interest, health, safety, welfare
and convenience, the following rules and regulations are hereby adopted,
setting forth the conditions, requirements and limitations under which a person
may construct, have constructed, operate and maintain a cable television system
and engage in the business of providing a cable television service in the town.
(1995 Code, § 16-1)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE (COMMUNITY ANTENNA) TELEVISION SERVICE. The business of furnishing to
the public for compensation, by means of a master antenna and cables, broadcast
TV programs obtained off the air, together with such other program material and
advertising as may be allowed by rules and regulations of the Federal
Communication Commission from time to time.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV SYSTEM. A system of antennas, cables, wires,
lines, towers, waveguides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities, designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
transmitting, amplifying and distributing audio, video and other forms of
electronic or electrical signals, located in the town. This definition shall
not include any such facility that serves or will serve only subscribers in one
or more multiple-unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management,
or that does not use town rights-of-way.
   CATV.  Cable (community antenna) television.
   FRANCHISE. Includes any authorization granted under this chapter in terms of
a franchise, privilege, permit, license or otherwise to construct, or have
constructed, operate and maintain a system in the town for the purpose of
providing cable television service to the citizens of the town. Any such
authorization, in whatever terms granted, shall not include any license or
permit authorization required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on
a business within the town in accordance with Chapters
110,
111 and
112.
   GRANTEE. The person to whom a franchise is granted by the Mayor and Council
under this chapter, and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of the
person.
   GROSS ANNUAL RECEIPTS. Any and all compensation and other consideration in
any form whatsoever and any contributing grant or subsidy received, directly or
indirectly, by a grantee from subscribers or users in payment for any and all
cable service in the community (including all forms of consideration, such as
initial lump sum payments).
   PROPERTY OF GRANTEE.  All property owned and installed by a grantee in the
conduct of a CATV business in the town under the authority of a franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter.
   STREET. The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
right-of-way, highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk,
parkway or drive existing as such within the franchise area.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service
of a grantee.
(1995 Code, § 16-2)
§ 113.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or otherwise
participate in the construction, operation or maintenance of a community
antenna television system in the town unless the person or the person for whom
the work is being done shall have first obtained a franchise from the Mayor and
Council. It shall also be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
providing a community antenna television service in the town unless the person
shall have first obtained a franchise from the Council.
   (B)   A person seeking issuance of a franchise under this section shall file
a written application, in duplicate, with the Town Administrator. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant; if the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner. If the applicant is a
corporation, the application shall also state the names and addresses of its
directors, officers, parent and subsidiary companies and of stockholders owning
as much as 3% of the outstanding stock and shall include a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation;
      (2)   A statement showing the applicant's experience in establishing a
system and in providing a service;
      (3)   A financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant, or
person otherwise satisfactory to the Council, showing the applicant's financial
status and its financial ability to complete the construction and installation
of the proposed system and to provide the proposed service. In connection
therewith, information with respect to financial projections, including nature
and sources of capital or equity financing, shall be submitted along with the
application;
      (4)   A statement and description of the system proposed to be
constructed, installed, maintained or operated by the applicant; the manner in
which applicant proposes to construct, install, maintain and operate the same;
and particularly, the extent and manner in which existing or future poles or
other facilities of other public utilities will be used for the system;
      (5)   A copy of any arrangement, agreement or contract, if existing,
between the applicant and any public utility providing for the use of
facilities of the public utility, such as poles, lines, cables or conduits;
      (6)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings,
whether written, oral or implied, existing between the applicant and any
person, with respect to the ownership, control or transfer of the proposed
franchise or the proposed CATV system and service. If a franchise is granted to
a person posing as a front or as the representative of another person and that
information is not disclosed in the original application, the franchise shall
be deemed void and of no force and effect whatsoever;
      (7)   A statement of schedule of proposed rates and charges to
subscribers for installation and services; and
      (8)   Additional information which the Mayor and Council, at any time,
may deem reasonably necessary to determine whether the requested franchise
should be granted.
   (C)   (1)   Upon consideration of any such application, the Mayor and
Council shall determine the applicant's qualifications to construct, operate
and maintain a CATV system and to provide a CATV service in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. If the Council determines that the applicant is not
so qualified, it may refuse to grant the requested franchise. If the Council
determines that the applicant is so qualified, it may, by ordinance, grant a
franchise to the applicant, to be effective as provided in §
113.04; provided, however, no provision of this chapter may be deemed or
construed as to require the granting of a franchise when the Council determines
that to do so would not be in the public interest.
      (2)   Any franchise granted shall include the following condition:
      The CATV system and service herein franchised shall be used and operated
solely and exclusively for the purpose expressly authorized by ordinance of the
town and no other purpose whatsoever.
(1995 Code, § 16-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 ACCEPTANCE; INDEMNIFICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Within 25 days after the Mayor and Council has taken final action to
approve the granting of a franchise under this chapter, the grantee shall file
a written acceptance of the conditions required for the franchise, acknowledged
before a notary public, with the Town Clerk. Acceptance shall acknowledge that
the grantee agrees to be bound by and to comply with the provisions of this
chapter and the franchise and shall be in such a form and content as to be
satisfactory to and approved by the Town Attorney.
   (B)   Concurrently with the filing of the written acceptance, the grantee
shall file with the Town Clerk the bond, letter of credit and insurance
policies required by §
113.11.
   (C)   The effective date of the franchise shall be the date the grantee
files its written acceptance of the conditions required for the franchise in
accordance with the provisions of division (A) of this section.
(1995 Code, § 16-4)
§ 113.05 NATURE AND DURATION OF FRANCHISE; TERMINATION; TRANSFER.
   (A)   The franchise shall be nonexclusive, shall be for a term as specified
in the franchise not to exceed 20 years.
   (B)   Conditions:
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no transfer of control of the CATV
system shall take place, whether by forced or voluntary sale, lease, mortgage,
assignment, encumbrance or other form of disposition, without prior notice to
and approval by the Mayor and Council which shall not be unreasonably refused.
The notice shall include full identifying particulars of the proposed
transaction, and the Council shall either approve or disapprove the transfer by
resolution within 60 days of the receipt of the notice.
      (2)   The consent or approval of the Mayor and Council to any assignment,
lease, transfer, sublease or mortgage of the grantee shall not constitute a
waiver or release of the rights of the town in and to the streets.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the term CONTROL is not limited to
majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
      (4)   A rebuttable presumption that a transfer of control has occurred
shall arise upon the acquisition or accumulation of any person, or group of
persons, of 10% of the voting shares of any corporate grantee.
      (5)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Mayor and
Council will not approve any transfer or assignment of the grantee before
completion of initial construction of the energized cable.
      (6)   Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the
franchisee may hypothecate or pledge its interest in this franchise for the
purpose of obtaining financing, the proceeds of which shall be utilized in the
construction, maintenance and operation of a cable television system authorized
under the terms of this chapter. Any change in ownership or control of the
system resulting from the pledge or hypothecation shall not become absolute
without:
         (a)   The approval of the town; and
         (b)   Any new grantee filing with town its written acceptance of this
chapter, the franchise and all the conditions thereto. This acceptance shall be
filed within 60 days following the date of the change.
   (C)   The Mayor and Council may terminate the franchise prior to the date of
expiration upon a finding, made after 30 days' notice of any proposed
termination and public hearing, that:
      (1)   The grantee has failed to comply in some material respect with any
of the provisions of this chapter, or has, by any act or omission, violated in
some material respect any term or condition of any franchise or permit issued
under this chapter;
      (2)   The grantee made a material, false statement in the application for
the franchise, knowing it to be false; or
      (3)   The grantee, contrary to the best interest of public convenience
and welfare, is not providing subscribers with regular, adequate and proper
service.
   (D)   If the use of any tangible part of the CATV system is discontinued for
any reason for a continuous period of 365 days, or the franchise has been
terminated, cancelled or has expired, the grantee shall promptly remove from
the streets or public places all the property of the system, other than that
which the Town Administrator may permit to be abandoned in place, and as
directed by the Town Administrator shall either restore the street or pay the
town for restoring the street or other area from which the property has been
removed to a condition for public use as good as the abutting portions thereof.
Any property remaining in place 60 days after the termination or expiration of
the franchise shall be considered permanently abandoned.
(1995 Code, § 16-5)
§ 113.06 AUTHORITY GRANTED BY FRANCHISE; PROHIBITIONS UPON ENGAGING IN CERTAIN
BUSINESS; INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee of any franchise issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be authorized to construct, or have constructed, operate and
maintain a CATV system and to engage in the business of providing a CATV
service in the town, and for that purpose, to erect, install, construct,
repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, over, on, under, upon,
across and along any public street any wires, cables, conductors, ducts,
conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other
property excepting poles as may be necessary and appurtenant to the CATV
system; and, in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar facilities or
properties rented or leased from other persons, including but not limited to
any public utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do business in
the town.
   (B)   Conditions concerning rate-setting are as follows.
      (1)   The grantee may initially charge subscribers and users of the CATV
system for services up to the amounts specified in its schedule of rates and
charges as proposed in its franchise application and approved by the Mayor and
Council. Such maximum rates shall be in effect for a minimum period of two
years from the effective date of the franchise or until the grantee has
completed all construction as proposed in its franchise application for the
first and second years of construction, whichever is longer.
      (2)   The grantee may establish rates for service from time to time
thereafter by filing with the Town Administrator a schedule of rates 30 days
prior to their implementation.
      (3)   (a)   At any time after a minimum period of two years from the
effective date of the franchise or until the grantee has completed all
construction as proposed in its franchise application for the first and second
year of construction, whichever is longer, the Mayor and Council may determine
whether it will assume rate modification authority.
         (b)   If the Council declines rate modification authority, then rates
may be modified by the grantee as specified in division (B)(2) of this section.
If the Council assumes rate modification authority, then for the term
designated, rates shall be subject to modification only by the Council and only
in accordance with the following procedures.
            1.   The grantee may petition the Mayor and Council for a change in
rates by filing a revised rate schedule including its justification(s) for the
proposed new schedule.
            2.   Within ten days of notification by the Council of the place
and time established for a hearing on such petition, the grantee shall notify
its subscribers of the hearing by announcement on at least one channel of its
system, between the hours of 7:00 and 9:00 p.m., for five consecutive days.
Additionally, hearings shall be announced in a newspaper of general circulation
at least five days before the date of the hearing and at the expense of the
grantee. Following all proper notice, but in no event later than 90 days from
the date of the petition, the Council shall hold an appropriate public hearing
to consider the proposed new rates, at which hearing all parties desiring to be
heard, including the grantee, shall be heard on any matters relating to
performance under this franchise, the grantee's services, and the proposed new
rates.
         (c)   Within 90 days after the hearing, the Mayor and Council shall
render a written decision on the grantee's petition, either accepting,
rejecting or modifying the same and reciting the basis of its decision.
         (d)   If the Mayor and Council fails to act within 180 days of the
grantee's petition pursuant to division (B)(3)(a) of this section, the grantee
shall thereafter be entitled to put its proposed new rates into effect on a
provisional basis, provided that it shall keep a full and accurate accounting
of all income resulting from the provisional rates and shall be obliged for a
period of 180 days thereafter to refund the amount by which the provisional
rates exceed the rates ultimately established by the Council. Upon request by
the Council, the grantee shall provide a bond of other reasonable surety to
ensure that possible refunds due under this division shall be promptly made.
The bond or surety shall be in an amount not to exceed the difference between
the amount of revenues generated in 180 days at the previously existing rates
and the amount of revenues expected to be generated in 180 days at the
provisional rates.
      (4)   The criteria for the Mayor and Council's decision in such matters
shall be the establishment of rates which are "fair and reasonable" to both the
grantee and its subscribers and shall be generally defined as the minimum rates
necessary to meet all applicable costs of service, including fair return on all
invested capital, all assuming efficient and economical management.
      (5)   (a)   In order for the Mayor and Council to determine whether
proposed rate changes conform with the criteria established in division (B)(4)
of this section, the grantee's petition for a rate increase shall include all
the following financial reports, which shall reflect the operations of the
municipal system only:
            1.   Balance sheet;
            2.   Income statement;
            3.   Statement of sources and applications of funds;
            4.   Detailed supporting schedules of expenses, income, assets and
other items as may be required; and
            5.   Statement of current and projected subscribers and
penetration.
         (b)   The grantee's accounting records applicable to the municipal
system shall be available for inspection by the town at all reasonable times.
The town shall have access to records of financial transactions for the purpose
of verifying burden rates or other indirect costs prorated to town operation.
The documents listed above shall include sufficient detail and/or footnotes as
may be necessary to provide the town with the information needed to make
accurate determinations as to the financial condition of the system. All
financial statements shall be certified as accurate by an officer of the
grantee.
      (6)   Any disagreement between the town and the grantee concerning
interpretations and calculations of the financial and statistical information
provided by the grantee may be submitted to a court of competent jurisdiction
when permitted by law.
   (C)   The grantee shall not engage in the sale, service, repair, rental or
leasing of television receivers, radio receivers, parts or accessories and
shall not require or attempt to influence its subscribers to deal with any
particular person in regard thereto.
   (D)   Construction and maintenance of the CATV system, including house
connections, shall be in accordance with the provisions of the following:
      (1)   National Electrical Safety Code of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers;
      (2)   National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Agency;
and
      (3)   Bell Telephone System's Code of Pole Line Construction.
(1995 Code, § 16-6)
§ 113.07 CONDITIONS UPON USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The poles used for a distribution system shall be those erected and
maintained by the town, the power company or the telephone company, or either,
whenever agreement can be reached with the owners of the poles. Whenever
agreement cannot be reached with the owners of the poles, then the matter may
be submitted for arbitration pursuant to state statutes. Any poles, wires,
cables, conduits or other properties to be realigned or reset to permit their
use for purposes of the grantee under an agreement with the owner thereof shall
be constructed or installed only at those locations and depths and in such a
manner as shall be approved by the owner and the Town Administrator. They shall
be located so as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets
and to cause minimum interferences with the rights or reasonable convenience of
the general public and of property owners who adjoin the streets.
   (B)   The installation of the facilities, including service drops to
subscribers, shall be made underground in areas where facilities of both the
telephone company or the power company are underground or hereafter may be
placed underground. In addition to the foregoing, the installation of the
facilities shall be made underground when required by the town ordinances or
policies.
   (C)   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or any public place any property of the grantee when required by the
town by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation, freeway
and street construction, change or establishment of street grade, installation
of sewers, drains, water pipes, power lines, signal lines or any other type of
structure or improvements by the town, and the town shall not be liable for any
disturbance of the grantee's installations resulting therefrom. The grantee
shall carry out the instructions and directions of the Town Administrator
whenever it is necessary to raise or remove any of the grantee's wires or
cables temporarily, for the purpose of moving or removing buildings or
structures on the public streets of the town, and shall perform such tree-
trimming or other maintenance work as shall be required or as shall be directed
by the Town Administrator, all at the grantee's expense.
   (D)   Whenever a grantee takes up or disturbs any pavement, sidewalk or
other improvement of any street, the same shall be replaced and the surface
restored in as good condition as before entry in accordance with ordinances,
regulations, technical standards and fee schedules of the town as administered
by the Town Administrator. Any opening or obstruction in the streets shall be
guarded and protected at all times by the placement of adequate barriers,
fences or boardings, the bounds of which shall be clearly designated by warning
lights of approved types.
(1995 Code, § 16-7)
§ 113.08 PERMITS, INSTALLATION AND SERVICE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the effective date of the franchise, the grantee
shall proceed with due diligence to obtain all necessary permits and
authorizations which are required in the conduct of its business, including but
not limited to any utility joint-use-attachment agreements.
   (B)   Within 90 days after obtaining all necessary permits, licenses and
authorizations, the grantee shall commence construction and installation of the
CATV system.
   (C)   Within one year after obtaining all necessary permits and
authorization, the grantee shall proceed to render service to subscribers in at
least 40% of the franchise area, and the completion of the system shall be
pursued with reasonable diligence thereafter with extension of service to the
remaining franchise area within the next succeeding year.
   (D)   Failure on the part of the grantee to commence and diligently pursue
each of the foregoing requirements and to complete each of the matters set
forth in this section shall be grounds for termination of the franchise, under
and pursuant to the terms of §
113.05; provided, however, the Mayor and Council may extend the time for the
commencement and completion of construction and installation for additional
periods if the grantee, acting in good faith, experiences delays by reason of
circumstances beyond its control.
   (E)   The grantee shall file a map with the town at the close of each
franchise year showing the areas and locations of the town being served by the
CATV system and the location and identification of component parts of the
system.
(1995 Code, § 16-8)
§ 113.09 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall install and maintain a CATV system which shall be in
accordance with the highest and best accepted standards of the industry to the
effect that subscribers shall receive the highest possible service. In
addition, the grantee shall comply with all requirements of duly constituted
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the operator of CATV systems.
   (B)   The grantee must obtain individual permits for street openings, must
have the installation or construction plans approved prior to construction,
must secure all necessary permits at its expense and must pay all fees charged
for closing pavement cuts.
   (C)   When any portion of the CATV system is to be installed on public
utility poles and facilities, a certification that agreements for this joint
use have been entered shall be filed with the town.
   (D)   The grantee shall establish procedures for receiving, acting upon and
resolving subscriber complaints to the satisfaction of the Town Administrator.
The grantee shall furnish a notice of these procedures to each subscriber at
the time of initial subscription to the system.
(1995 Code, § 16-9)
§ 113.10 REMUNERATION TO TOWN.
   Within 60 days after the close of its first fiscal year after acceptance of
a franchise, and each succeeding fiscal year thereafter during the life of the
franchise, the grantee shall pay to the town for the privilege of constructing,
operating and maintaining the CATV system as defined in §
113.02, and for the privilege of providing the CATV service as defined in §
113.02 during the preceding fiscal year, a sum equal to that percentage of its
gross annual receipts during that fiscal year as is determined from time to
time by Mayor and Council, which sum shall never exceed the maximum sum allowed
by federal and state regulatory agencies for those privileges. Within 45 days
after the expiration of the grantee's fiscal year, the grantee shall file with
the town a financial statement prepared by a certified public accountant, or
other person satisfactory to the Council, showing in detail the gross annual
receipts of the grantee during the fiscal year. The payment of this fee is in
addition to any ad valorem taxes which the town may levy on the grantee's real
or personal property. At any time during the three fiscal years following the
payment of the annual fee, the town shall have the right to inspect the
grantee's records showing the gross annual receipts from which these payments
are computed and the right of audit and recomputation of any and all amounts
under this chapter. Acceptance of payments under this chapter shall not be
construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the town
may have for further or additional sums payable under this chapter or for the
performance of any other obligations under this chapter. Upon holding over
after expiration or other termination of any franchise granted hereunder,
without the consent of the town, the grantee shall pay to the town reasonable
compensation and damages, of not less than 100% of its total gross profits
during that period.
(1995 Code, § 16-10)
§ 113.11 RIGHTS RESERVED TO TOWN.
   (A)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to impair or
affect, in any way, to any extent, any right of the town to acquire the
property of the grantee, either by purchase or through the exercise of eminent
domain.
   (B)   The town hereby reserves the right to amend any section or part of
this chapter.
   (C)   At all reasonable times, the grantee shall permit any duly authorized
representative of the town:
      (1)   To examine any and all financial records maintained by or under the
control of the grantee relating to all revenue obtained by it from its
operations under the franchise;
      (2)   To inspect and obtain copies of any or all maps or other diagrams
maintained by or under the control of the grantee showing the location and the
layout of the various components of the CATV system operated by it under its
permit; and
      (3)   To inspect any and all installations owned, maintained or used by
the grantee in its operations under its franchise, including all towers, cables
and other components of the grantee's CATV system.
   (D)   The grantee shall indemnify and save harmless the town, its officers
and employees, from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, suits and
proceedings by others, and against all liability to others, arising out of the
exercise or enjoyment of its franchise, including but not limited to any
liability for damages by reason of or arising out of any failure of the grantee
to secure consents from the owners, authorized distributors, or licensees of
programs to be delivered by the grantee's CATV system, and against any loss,
cost, expense and damages resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorney's
fees.
   (E)   Concurrently with the filing of the written acceptance, as required in
§
113.04, the grantee shall file with the Town Clerk, and at all times thereafter
maintain in full force and effect for the term of such franchise or any renewal
thereof a good and sufficient liability insurance policy or policies, providing
a minimum $300,000 coverage for personal injuries to each person, $500,000
coverage for all personal injuries in each accident and $500,000 coverage for
all property damage in each accident. The policy or policies shall name the
town as an additional insured and shall be for the purpose of insuring the town
against any damages to it and any and all legal liability, court costs, claim
or demand for personal injury, death or property damage arising out of the
operations of the grantee under this chapter or its franchise. Any coverage of
the grantee in addition to the above minimum limits shall also name the town as
an additional insured and/or beneficiary.
   (F)   The grantee shall, concurrently with the effective date of the
franchise ordinance, post with the town and at all times thereafter maintain in
full force and effect for the term of the franchise, or any renewal thereof, at
the grantee's sole cost and expense, either:
      (1)   A corporate surety bond issued by a responsible insurance company
licensed to do business in this state and approved by the town in the amount of
$15,000, renewable annually, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the grantee of all the provisions of the franchise agreement and this chapter,
and upon the further condition that, if the grantee shall fail to comply with
one or more of the provisions of the franchise agreement or this chapter, there
shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of the
bond any damages or loss suffered by the town as a result thereof, including
the full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or
abandonment of any property of the grantee as prescribed hereby plus a
reasonable allowance for attorney's fees and costs, up to the full amount of
the bond, which condition to be a continuing obligation for the duration of the
franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the grantee has
liquidated all of its obligations arising out of the acceptance of this
franchise or renewal by the grantee or from the exercise of any privileges or
right herein granted or the performance of any covenants or obligations imposed
hereby. The bond shall provide that at least 30 days' prior written notice of
intention not to renew, cancellation or material change be given to the town by
filing the same with the Town Administrator; or
      (2)   A letter of credit in a form approved by the Town Administrator to
the town in the amount of $15,000 issued by a local lending institution
approved by the town and payable upon demand by the town. This letter of credit
shall be used to protect the town from the same contingencies as enumerated in
division (F)(1) of this section for a corporate surety bond.
(1995 Code, § 16-11)
§ 113.12 FRANCHISE AREA AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise limited by the franchise ordinance, the franchise
area shall include the present corporate limits of the town and any area
henceforth added thereto during the term of the franchise or any extension
thereof, including territory annexed pursuant to "satellite" annexation
authority. Neither the franchise ordinance nor this chapter shall affect the
rights of any other cable television grantor holding a governmental franchise
in an annexed area, nor does the town guarantee that no such franchise
operators shall exist in the annexed area.
   (B)   Subject to §
113.08, the grantee shall make cable television services available to all
residents of the franchise area who apply therefor and are willing to pay the
various service rates and installation and/or reconnection charges established
by the grantee pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the grantee's application
and franchise ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 16-12)
§ 113.13 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT TO TOWN.
   The grantee shall pay the town a sum of money which will reimburse all costs
and expenses incurred by it in connection with the preparation of this chapter,
the franchise agreement, and the granting of a franchise, including but not
limited to consultants' fees, attorneys' fees, publication fees, travel
expenses and all other direct costs; provided, however, that the costs and
expenses shall not exceed the sum of $2,500 and the town shall submit a
detailed schedule of all the costs. Such payment shall be made within 30 days
after the town furnishes the grantee with a written statement of the expenses.
(1995 Code, § 16-13)
CHAPTER 114: ESCORT AND DATING SERVICES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Application for escort or dating service permit
   
114.04   Registration of escorts
   
114.05   Revocation
   
114.06   Appeals
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DATING SERVICE. Any business, agency or person who offers or performs for
pecuniary compensation any service to aid persons to become socially acquainted
or to otherwise assist persons to meet for social purposes.
   ESCORT. A person who is an employee, agent or independent contractor of an
escort service, and:
      (1)   Either:
         (a)   Whose name is furnished by the escort service; or
         (b)   Who is introduced or furnished by the escort service to persons;
or
         (c)   Who is provided by the escort service for the accompaniment of
other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of
amusement; or
         (d)   Who is provided by the escort service to consort with others
about any public or private place; and
      (2)   Who receives pecuniary compensation in exchange therefor.
   ESCORT SERVICE.  Any business, agency or person who for pecuniary
compensation furnishes or offers to furnish names of escorts, or who
introduces, furnishes or arranges for escorts, who may accompany other persons
to or about social affairs, entertainments or place of amusement, or who may
consort with others about any public or private place.
   PERMITTING AUTHORITY. A sworn police officer designated by the Chief of
Police of the Town Police Department.
   PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, partnership, corporation or
association.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on the operation of an escort
service as herein defined, without a valid escort service permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; or a dating service as herein
defined, without a valid dating service permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. The issuance of an escort service permit does not
authorize the permit holder to operate a dating service. The issuance of a
dating service permit does not authorize the permit holder to operate an escort
service. A separate permit shall be required for each location within the town
at which a dating service or escort service is established or name under which
it operates. An escort service or dating service permit is not transferable.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR ESCORT OR DATING SERVICE PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate an escort service or
dating service shall make application to the permitting authority.
   (B)   An applicant for an escort service permit or dating service permit
shall provide the following:
      (1)   The full true name of the applicant/owner of the business;
      (2)   The full true name under which the business will be conducted and,
if the business will be conducted in a name other than that of the applicant/
owner, a certified copy of an assumed name certificate prepared and recorded in
the County Register of Deeds Office pursuant to G.S. §§ 66-68 et seq.;
      (3)   The address where the business is to be conducted and where the
books and records are maintained;
      (4)   If the owner of the real property upon which the business is to be
conducted is not the applicant, the name and address of the owner of the real
property upon which the business is to be conducted and a copy of the lease or
rental agreement;
      (5)   All telephone numbers to be used by the business; and
      (6)   (a)   If the applicant/owner is a natural person, the applicant/
owner shall appear in person and complete and sign all application forms and
provide the following information:
            1.   The present residence and business addresses and telephone
numbers of the applicant;
            2.   A valid driver's license or other government-issued picture
identification; and
            3.   Government-issued Social Security card.
         (b)   If the applicant/owner is a partnership: the names and residence
addresses of each partner, including limited partners; and a copy of the
partnership agreement. If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the
provisions of this section pertaining to corporations shall apply.
         (c)   If the applicant/owner is a corporation: a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, or if a foreign corporation, a certified copy of the
certificate of authority, and a certified copy of the most recent annual report
filed with the Secretary of State of North Carolina; and the names and
residence addresses of each of its current officers and directors, and of each
stockholder holding more than 5% of the stock of the corporation.
         (d)   If the applicant/owner is a partnership or corporation, the
applicant shall designate one of its general partners or officers to act as its
responsible managing officer. The person shall appear in person and complete
and sign all application forms, and shall provide his or her present residence
and business addresses and telephone numbers, a valid driver's license or other
government-issued picture identification, and government-issued Social Security
card.
   (C)   A federal tax identification number assigned to the business and a
completed tax information authorization form (IRS Form § 821).
   (D)   Within 30 days of application, the permitting authority shall
investigate an application and verify all information submitted. If the
application is complete and all information provided is accurate, a permit
shall be issued. If the application is incomplete or if any information
provided is inaccurate, the application shall be denied.
   (E)   The holder of an escort service permit or dating service permit shall
notify the permitting authority in writing of any change of information
required under division (B) within 30 days of the change.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 114.04 REGISTRATION OF ESCORTS.
   Any person desiring to operate as an escort shall appear in person and
register with the permitting authority by providing the following information:
   (A)   Full true name and alias(es) that might be used while acting as an
escort;
   (B)   Present residence address and telephone number;
   (C)   Valid driver's license or other government-issued picture
identification;
   (D)   Government-issued Social Security card; and
   (E)   Name of the escort service(s) for which the registrant is an employee,
agent or independent contractor.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 114.05 REVOCATION.
   The permitting authority may revoke an escort service permit or dating
service permit for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   An applicant/owner provides the permitting authority with any false,
inaccurate or incomplete information, regardless of whether the information was
initially believed to be true or complete;
   (B)   Failure to provide notice of change in information as required by this
chapter;
   (C)   The furnishing of or offer to furnish names of escorts who are not
registered as escorts of the escort service pursuant to this chapter, or the
introduction, furnishing or arrangement for escorts who are not registered as
escorts of the escort service as required, who may accompany other persons to
or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement, or who may
consort with others about any public or private place;
   (D)   A dating service permit may be revoked for operation of an escort
service without a valid escort service permit; or
   (E)   The escort service or dating service engaged in, conducts, permits,
promotes or facilitates activities which constitute violations of any
subdivision of G.S. § 14-204 or § 14-177, or which constitute solicitations to
commit violations of any subdivisions of those statutes.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 114.06 APPEALS.
   An applicant/owner may appeal the denial or revocation of an escort service
permit or dating service permit by providing written notice of appeal to the
permitting authority within ten business days of a denial or revocation.
Appeals shall be heard by the Police Chief of the Town Police Department within
15 working days from date of appeal.
(Ord. 6, passed 5-20-1997)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Bond, insurance required for rides
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate amusements, see G.S. § 160A-181
§ 115.01 BOND, INSURANCE REQUIRED FOR RIDES.
   No person shall conduct, operate, manage or sponsor any Ferris wheel, merry-
go-round, or other amusement ride operated for hire, or for the purpose of
promoting or advertising any trade or business, without first filing with the
Town Clerk a bond or certificate of liability insurance, in the amount of at
least $250,000, indemnifying the public against damages sustained by reason of
the operation of the ride. The bond or certificate of insurance shall be
subject to the approval of the Town Attorney. This section shall apply to all
persons, whether or not the persons are exempted from any other provision of
this code.
(1995 Code, § 8-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
116.01   Consumption in public places
   
116.02   Sale of alcoholic beverages on Sunday
   
116.03   Social District established
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages in parks, see §
93.02
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of alcoholic beverages, see G.S. Chapter 18B
§ 116.01 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to consume any wine or
beer upon any public street or upon the private business premises of another
without permission of the owner or person in control of the premises.
(1995 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate the consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine
on town-owned property, see G.S. § 18B-300(c)
§ 116.02 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON SUNDAY.
   Pursuant to authority granted by S.L. 2017-87 any establishment located in
the corporate limits of the town and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to
G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 116.03 SOCIAL DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The Town Council creates the Pineville Social District(s) as follows.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-205.4 et seq. and G.S. §
18B-300.1, one or more social districts may be created within the town. The
town hereby creates and designates the Pineville Social District(s), hereafter
“Social District”, as shown on Exhibit A below.
Exhibit A: Downtown Pineville Social District
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2479b1c1557cf48e5340a6329a0e142b320269b9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1365.jpg]
 
      ( 2 )    The Social District shall be created, designated, and managed in
accordance with the requirements contained in G.S. § 160A-205.4 and G.S.
Chapter 18B, as may be amended, updated or adopted from time to time.
      (3)   Any permittee, non-permittee or person who violates this section,
and any permittee, non-permittee or person who aids, abets, encourages, assists
in, or contributes to the violation, shall be subject to one or a combination
of the enforcement methods set forth in division (H)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER. A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage from an ABC
permittee that is in a social district.
      NON-PERMITTEE. A business that is located in a social district and does
not hold an ABC permit.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company, other organization, group, or combination of
individuals acting as a unit.
      PERMITTEE.  A person holding any of the following permits issued by the
North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission established under G.S. §
18B-200:
         (a)   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(1);
         (b)   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(3);
         (c)   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(5);
         (d)   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(10);
         (e)   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B -1100(5);
         (f)   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(16).
      PREMISES. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside or
outside the establishment, where the business has control through a lease,
deed, or other legal process.
      SOCIAL DISTRICT. A defined area in which a person 21 years or older may
consume alcoholic beverages sold by a permittee. A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include
both indoor and outdoor areas of businesses within or contiguous to the defined
area. A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include privately owned property, including
permittees and non-permittee businesses, and multi-tenant establishments, as
defined in G.S. § 18B-1001.5, and public streets, crosswalks, or parking areas,
whether or not the streets or parking areas are closed to vehicle traffic.
      WAIVER. Businesses in the Social District, both permittee and non-
permittee, who do not want to participate in the Social District.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The provisions and terms contained in this section shall be
applicable to the Social District, illustrated in Exhibit A in division (A)(1),
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, and
the hours of 1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on Sunday.
      (2)   Any alcoholic beverage purchased for consumption in the Social
District shall:
         (a)   Only be consumed in the Social District; and
         (b)   Be disposed of before the person in possession of the alcoholic
beverage exits the Social District.
   (D)   Requirements for sale of alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   Any permittee in a social district desiring to engage as a social
district participant, must apply for and obtain a social district permit from
the town. The permittee shall be responsible to operate its business in
accordance with all town and state ordinances, laws, rules, regulations and
operations plan that governs social district activities.
      (2)   A permittee located in the Social District may sell open containers
of alcoholic beverages for consumption within the Social District and allow
customers to exit its premises to the Social District in accordance with the
following requirements.
         (a)   The permittee shall only sell and serve alcoholic beverages on
its licensed premises.
         (b)   The permittee shall only sell open containers of alcoholic
beverages for consumption in the Social District and off the permittee’s
premises in a container that meets all of the following requirements:
            1.   The container clearly identifies the permittee from which the
alcoholic beverage was purchased;
            2.   The container clearly displays the town-approved Social
District logo that is unique to the Pineville Social District;
            3.   The container is comprised of a recyclable and/or reusable
material other than glass;
            4.   The container displays, in no less than 12-point font, the
statement, “Drink Responsibly - Be 21”;
            5.   The container shall not hold more than 16 fluid ounces;
            6.   The container will be provided by the permittee.
      (3)   Notwithstanding G.S. § 18B-300 and G.S. § 18B-301, a permittee
business may allow a customer to possess and consume on the business’s premises
alcoholic beverages purchased from any permittee in the Social District.
   (E)   Non-permittee business located within the Social District.
      (1)   The town shall create and provide to participating non-permittee
businesses a uniform sign that indicates the non-permittee business is
participating in the Social District.
         (a)   The participating non-permittee business shall display the
uniform sign in front window at all times when the Social District is active. A
customer may not bring an alcoholic beverage into a non-permittee business that
does not display the uniform sign.
         (b)   No non-permittee business shall be required to participate or be
included in the Social District or to allow customers to bring alcohol onto its
premises.
      (2)   All non-permittee businesses that are part of the Social District
and that allow customers to bring alcoholic beverages onto their premises shall
clearly post town-approved signage on any exits that do not open to the Social
District, indicating that alcoholic beverages may not be taken past that point.
      (3)   During the days and hours when the Social District is active, a
non-permittee business that allows customers to bring alcoholic beverages onto
its premises shall allow law enforcement officers access to the areas of the
premises accessible by customers.
   (F)   Waiver of participation. Businesses in the Social District, both
permittees and non-permittees, who do not want to participate (who will not
allow customers to bring alcohol on their premises or who will not serve
alcohol for Social District purposes) shall sign a waiver and file it with the
town. The “Not Permitted Here” sign will be provided by the town to be
displayed by these businesses.
   (G)   Requirements for possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
The possession and consumption of an alcoholic beverage in the Social District
is subject to all of the following requirements.
      (1)   Only alcoholic beverages purchased from a permittee located in the
Social District may be possessed and consumed.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be in containers meeting the
requirements set forth in division (D)(2) of this section, except for alcoholic
beverages sold by a permittee for consumption on the permittee’s premises.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the sale
and delivery of alcoholic beverage drinks in excess of the limitation set forth
in G.S. § 18B-1010 or permitting consumption in a motor vehicle or other type
of transportation per state law.
      (4)   A person shall dispose of any open container of an alcoholic
beverage in the person’s possession prior to exiting the Social District,
unless the person is reentering the licensed premises where the alcoholic
beverage was purchased.
   (H)   Penalty. The town may enforce the provisions of this section by one or
a combination of the following methods.
      (1)   Permit revocation or suspension, or permanent ban. Any permittee,
non-permittee or person who violates any provision of this section may be
subject to having its Social District permit revoked or suspended, or being
permanently banned from participating in the Social District.
      (2)   Civil penalty. Any permittee, non-permittee or person who violates
any provision of this section may be fined by a civil penalty of $100 per
occurrence, which may be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature
of a debt if the violator does not pay the penalty within 30 days from the date
the violator is notified of the penalty. Any other service charges imposed by
this section may be collected by the town as a civil penalty in a civil action.
      (3)   Equitable remedy. The town may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an injunction, abatement order or any other appropriate
equitable remedy.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 10-10-2023)
CHAPTER 117: MASSAGE PARLORS, HEALTH SALONS AND RELATED BUSINESSES
Section:
   
117.01   Purpose; exemptions
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Licensing
   
117.04   Use of licensed therapists; posting of license
   
117.05   Prohibited acts
§ 117.01 PURPOSE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in the interest of public health, safety,
welfare and morals and also to protect the public from unqualified
practitioners and unethical businesses.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical
therapists or podiatrists duly licensed to practice in this state; and
registered or licensed practical nurses governed by the North Carolina Nursing
Practices Act.
      (2)   Athletic directors or trainers who are affiliated with an approved
educational institution or professional sports team and whose work is limited
to athletic team members.
      (3)   Licensed cosmetologists, barbers or beauty culturists who do not
give or hold themselves out to give massage treatments other than customarily
given in such establishments, solely for the purpose of beautification.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-10-2015)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPIST. Any person, whether male or female, who is
engaged in the practice of massage and bodywork therapy and who has graduated
from a state approved institute school of massage therapy and licensed under
the North Carolina Board of Massage and Bodywork Therapy licensing
requirements.
   MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPY. Systems of activity applied to the soft
tissues of the human body for therapeutic, educational, or relaxation purposes.
The application may include:
      (1)   Pressure, friction, stroking, rocking, kneading, percussion or
passive or active stretching within the normal anatomical range of movement;
      (2)   Complementary methods, including the external application of water,
heat, cold, lubricants, and other topical preparations; or
      (3)   The use of mechanical devices that mimic or enhance actions that
may possibly be done by the hands.
   MASSAGE AND BODYWORK THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT. Any business or establishment
wherein massage and bodywork therapy is performed solely by licensed massage
and bodywork therapists.
   PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area and
rectal area.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-10-2015)
§ 117.03 LICENSING.
   (A)   No person shall perform massage and bodywork therapy unless such a
person shall have first applied for and received a privilege license from the
city-county Tax Collector. Such privilege license shall be issued only to those
persons meeting the definition of health massage/bodywork therapist defined in
§
117.02 above.
   (B)   The application for the license required by this section shall be upon
a form approved by and filed with the city-county Tax Collector. Such
application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name and business address of the applicant; and
      (2)   A diploma or certificate of graduation from an institute or school
of massage and bodywork therapy whose curriculum is licensed under a state
licensing requirement, or a valid document of certification from the American
Massage Therapy Association or the National Certification Board for Therapeutic
Massage and Body Work, or the information required in division (D) of this
section.
   (C)   Each applicant for a license issued pursuant to this section shall pay
the privilege license tax provided in this code.
   (D)   Requirements for licensure. Under North Carolina State Law, G.S.
Chapter 90, Article 36, the requirements for licensure are as follows:
      (1)   Has obtained a high school diploma or equivalent;
      (2)   Is 18 years of age or older;
      (3)   Is of good moral character as determined by the Board;
      (4)   Has successfully completed a training program consisting of a
minimum of 500 in-class hours of supervised instruction at a Board-approved
school;
      (5)   Has passed a competency assessment examination that meets generally
accepted psychometric principles and standards and is approved by the Board;
and
      (6)   Has submitted fingerprint cards in a form acceptable to the Board
at the time the license application is filed and consented to a criminal
history record check by the North Carolina Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-10-2015)
§ 117.04 USE OF LICENSED THERAPISTS; POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No person or business shall permit anyone to perform massage and
bodywork therapy upon the premises operated by that person or business unless
the individual performing massage and bodywork therapy has been issued a
license as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Every massage and bodywork therapist shall post the license required
by this chapter in the therapist's work area at all times.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-10-2015)
§ 117.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage the
private parts of another for hire.
(Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-10-2015)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Urination and defecation on certain property prohibited
   
130.02   Loitering to engage in drug-related activity
   
130.03   Discharge of weapons
   
130.04   Begging or soliciting alms by accosting or forcing oneself upon the
company of another; prohibited conduct
Camping on Public Property
   
130.05   Camping and other activity prohibited on public property
   
130.06   Possession of obstruction devices prohibited; placing objects in
roadway, public right-of-way prohibited
   
130.07   Possession and dispersal of noxious substances
   
130.08   Police lines and barricades
   
130.09   Kindling bonfires
   
130.10   Attachments to public and private property
Picketing
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   When permitted generally
   
130.17   Noncompliance unlawful
   
130.18   Where permitted
   
130.19   Maximum number permitted
   
130.20   Positioning of pickets
   
130.21   Specifications for placards, signs
   
130.22   Handling conflicting pickets
   
130.23   Interference with pickets prohibited
   
130.24   Dispersal of crowds
   
130.25   Obstruction of streets, sidewalks
Youth Protection; Curfew
   
130.35   Purpose
   
130.36   Definitions
   
130.37   Offenses
   
130.38   Exceptions
   
130.39   Defense
   
130.40   Enforcement
Lewd Conduct
   
130.50   Purpose
   
130.51   Definitions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   State Criminal Code, see G.S. §§ 14-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 URINATION AND DEFECATION ON CERTAIN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any public
place, sidewalk, street, alleyway or right-of-way, or in any public building
except in designated water closets or toilet facilities, or on any private
property. Having the written permission of the owner or person in lawful
possession shall constitute an affirmative defense to the charge of urinating
or defecating on private property.
(1995 Code, § 32-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER. A person who has been
convicted in any court within this state of any crime involving the use,
possession or sale of any substance referred to in the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq., or has been convicted of any
violation of any substantially similar law of any other state or of the United
States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, public
vehicular area (as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01), public park and/or plaza, other
publicly owned or leased property, public transportation facility, school and
school grounds or property, common areas of apartment and condominium
communities, common areas of public housing projects, any place of business or
amusement which is open to the public, any private property which adjoins any
of the above-described areas and to which the public has ready access, any
other property which is open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, and any motor vehicle in or on the above-described areas.
      REPEATEDLY. Three or more times.
   (B)   Prohibited; violation determination. It shall be unlawful for a person
to remain or wander about in a public place for the purpose of engaging in a
violation of any provision of the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act,
G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq. The following conduct or factors can be considered in
determining whether a person is remaining or wandering in a public place for
the purpose of violating any provision of G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq.:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
or attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Being a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passers-by, whether on foot
or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (6)   Attempting to flee or evade a police officer;
      (7)   Being at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or sell
controlled substances;
      (8)   Occupying a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-
related activity; or
      (9)   Stopping, conversing with the occupant of, handing money or any
other object to the occupant of or receiving money or any object from the
occupant of a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-related
activity.
   (C)   Possible arrest; penalty. No arrest or charge is permitted hereunder
unless the circumstances establish probable cause to believe that the person
intended to violate one or more of the provisions of G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq. A
violation of any provision of this section shall subject the offender to the
penalties set forth in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 32-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a FIREARM is defined as any weapon
that will propel a projectile by the use of explosive action, including a bow
and arrow and a crossbow.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot any firearm in the
corporate limits of the town, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   An officer of the law lawfully discharging a duty weapon;
      (2)   The necessary defense of a person or property;
      (3)   Discharging firearms in licensed shooting galleries; and
      (4)   Discharging a bow and arrow and a crossbow in indoor or outdor
instructional and/or tournament archery ranes, upon written permit issued by
the chief of police.
(1995 Code, § 32-3) (Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-10-2015; Ord. 2022-04, passed 11-8-
2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 BEGGING OR SOLICITING ALMS BY ACCOSTING OR FORCING ONESELF UPON THE
COMPANY OF ANOTHER; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING, SOLICITATION, OR PEDDLING includes:
      (1)   Accosting a person by approaching or speaking to the individual or
individuals in such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon his or her
person, or upon property in his or her immediate possession;
      (2)   Touching someone without his or her consent;
      (3)   Using obscene or abusive language toward someone while attempting
to panhandle or solicit him or her;
      (4)   Forcing oneself upon the company of another by continuing to
solicit in close proximity to an individual who has made a negative response by
verbal or physical signs or by attempting to leave the presence of the person
soliciting, or by other negative indication;
      (5)   Blocking the path of the individual being solicited; otherwise
engaging in conduct that could reasonably be construed as intending to force a
person to accede to a solicitation;
      (6)   Other conduct that a reasonable person being solicited would regard
as intended to compel or force the person to accede to the solicitation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any acts of
aggressive soliciting, peddling, or panhandling as defined in division (A) of
this section.
   (C)   PANHANDLING means, without limitation, use of the spoken, written, or
printed words, signs, bodily gestures, or other acts as they are conducted in
the furtherance of the purpose of obtaining alms or contributions of money,
food, or clothing for the use of oneself or others.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-19-1995; Ord. 2023-04, passed 11-14-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 130.05 CAMPING AND OTHER ACTIVITY PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CAMP OR CAMPING. The use of town property for living accommodation
purposes such as sleeping, or making preparations to sleep (including the
laying down of bedding for the purpose of sleeping), or storing personal
belongings, or placing any tents or a temporary shelter on town property for
living accommodation purposes.
      TEMPORARY SHELTER. Tents, tarps, or any type of structure or cover that
provides partial shelter from the elements.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to camp on any public property owned
by the town including public rights-of-way and sidewalks.
   (C)   Camping as defined in this section is deemed a public nuisance and the
town may summarily remove a temporary shelter, bedding or personal belongings.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to light or use a campfire or bonfire on public
property except as may be specifically authorized by the town.
(Ord, 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.06 POSSESSION OF OBSTRUCTION DEVICES PROHIBITED; PLACING OBJECTS IN
ROADWAY, PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to possess any obstruction object or
instrument with the intent to obstruct a public road, public sidewalk, public
right-of-way, entrance or exit to private property or any other area open to
the public. OBSTRUCTION OBJECT OR INSTRUMENT as used in this section means a
device commonly known as a "lock box" or "sleeping dragon" or any of the
components of such a device including' but not limited to: pipes, tubes, wire
handcuffs, chains, padlocks, or containers either weighted or not.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to place any instrument, tripod, biped or
other pole or object with the intent to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
movement on a public road, public sidewalk, public right-of-way, entrance or
exit to private property, or any other area open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than governmental employees
in the performance of their duty, to attach themselves to another person,
building, vehicle or fixture with the intent to obstruct pedestrian or
vehicular movement on a public road, public sidewalk, public right-of- way,
entrance or exit to private property or any other area open to the public.
   (D)   Obstruct as used in this section means to interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular movement on a public road way, public sidewalk, public right-of-way,
entrance or exit to private property, or any other area open to the public.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.07 POSSESSION AND DISPERSAL OF NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any noxious substance
with the intent to use the noxious substance to interfere with a lawful
assembly or to interfere with emergency services or to interfere with a
person's right of entry or right to leave a place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, emit, or cause to be
used as a projectile, or otherwise disperse any noxious substance.
   (C)   Noxious substance as used in this section means any substance that is
harmful or destructive or foul or offensive to human beings, such as but not
limited to garbage, trash, refuse, animal parts or fluids, manure, urine, feces
or other organic waste by-products.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.08 POLICE LINES AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   Officers of the Pineville Police Department are authorized to
establish police lines and barricades to preserve the public peace, arrest
offenders and to protect the rights of persons and property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to intentionally cross over a police
line or barricade.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.09 KINDLING BONFIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to set a fire on any public street, avenue,
highway, public property or right-of-way unless expressly allowed by the town.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.10 ATTACHMENTS TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to hang, fasten, or attach any rope, wire, chain, sign,
banner, or electrical device or power cord to any public or private property
including buildings, bridges, overpasses, vehicles, construction equipment,
memorials, utility poles or artwork unless express permission has been granted
by the owner or manager of the property.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 3-13-2012)
PICKETING
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PICKETING and/or PICKETS. Includes demonstrating or demonstrators.
(1995 Code, § 32-26)
§ 130.16 WHEN PERMITTED GENERALLY.
   Peaceful picketing in the furtherance of a lawful purpose shall be permitted
in the town, provided the same is done under the following conditions of, and
in compliance with, the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 32-27)
§ 130.17 NONCOMPLIANCE UNLAWFUL.
   Picketing done contrary to the provisions of this subchapter shall be
unlawful.
(1995 Code, § 32-28) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 WHERE PERMITTED.
   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks or other town-owned area or
highway right-of-way normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement and may
not be conducted on the portion of a street used primarily for vehicular
traffic. The word OWNED as used in this section includes easements and rights-
of-way.
(1995 Code, § 32-29)
§ 130.19 MAXIMUM NUMBER PERMITTED.
   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be permitted to
use the sidewalks within a 400-foot block in the town at any one time.
(1995 Code, § 32-30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 POSITIONING OF PICKETS.
   Pickets shall march in single file and not abreast, and may not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing each other. Pickets shall not block
the ingress or egress of any business or residence.
(1995 Code, § 32-31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLACARDS, SIGNS.
   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding two
feet in width and two feet in height promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, the words used are not defamatory in nature and
would not tend to produce violence. The staff on which the placard is carried
shall not exceed 40 inches in length, must be made of wood, shall not exceed
three-fourths inch in diameter at any point, and must be blunt at each end.
(1995 Code, § 32-32) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 HANDLING CONFLICTING PICKETS.
   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same sidewalk
for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more than ten pickets
thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of pickets for the
use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis, but each group shall be permitted to
picket subject to the provisions of this section at least once every two hours.
(1995 Code, § 32-33)
§ 130.23 INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with any picket
in the use of the sidewalk or highway right-of-way normally used or reserved
for pedestrian movement or to address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening
language to or at the pickets which would tend to provoke the pickets or others
to a breach of the peace.
(1995 Code, § 32-34) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 DISPERSAL OF CROWDS.
   The police officers of the town may, upon the assemblage of persons in such
numbers as to tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful objective
through numbers alone or through use of inflammatory words, direct the
dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who fails to absent
himself or herself from the place of the assemblage when so directed by the
police.
(1995 Code, § 32-35) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall be
obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing the crowd shall disperse or move
on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for any
person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a police
officer.
(1995 Code, § 32-36) Penalty, see §
130.99
YOUTH PROTECTION; CURFEW
§ 130.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from victimization
and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under
the age of 16 years in the town. This subchapter is intended to reinforce and
promote the role of the parent in raising and guiding children and promote the
health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an
environment offering better protection and security for all concerned.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE.  The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not limited to
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or death. This term also
includes any action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to the
medical needs of a family member of the juvenile, regardless of whether the
juvenile's action is taken in order to prevent death or serious bodily injury.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited, including but not limited to any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16 years.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
stepparent or another person, or a person to whom legal custody has been given
by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including but not limited to streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public, and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place, to fail to leave the premises
when requested to do so by a police officer, or to fail to leave the premises
of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or employee
of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to in this subchapter is based
upon the prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern
Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the
town. RESTRICTED HOURS means:
      (1)   On any day of the week, 10:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. of the following
day for ages 12 and under; and
      (2)   On any day of the week, 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. of the following
day for ages 13, 14, and 15.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.37 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by §
130.38, the following offenses constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile
in that parent's legal custody. This requirement is intended to hold a
neglectful or careless parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental
responsibility through an objective test. It shall, therefore, be no defense
that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct or
whereabouts of the juvenile.
   (C)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes
knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the patrons of an establishment. The standard for "knowingly" shall
be applied through an objective test: whether a reasonable person in the
operator's or employee's position should have known that the patron was a
juvenile in violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person 16 years of
age or older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.38 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this subchapter if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult 21 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of the juvenile to take the parent’s or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (C)   Reserved.
   (D)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent engaged in interstate travel
through the town or originating or terminating in the town;
   (E)   Traveling in a motor vehicle with a parent or guardian, or traveling
in a motor vehicle with an adult 21 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of the juvenile to take the parent’s or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (F)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or using a direct route to or
from a place of employment;
   (G)   Reacting or responding to an emergency;
   (H)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an official
school, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public or private school, the town or other governmental entity,
a civic organization or another similar entity that accepts responsibility for
the juvenile;
   (I)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly;
   (J)   Married or emancipated;
   (K)   When authorized, by special permit from the Chief of Police or his or
her designee carried on the person of the juvenile thus authorized, as follows:
      When necessary nighttime activities of a juvenile may be inadequately
provided for by other sections of this subchapter, recourse may be had to the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee, either for a regulation as provided in
division (L) of this section or for a special permit as the circumstances
warrant. Upon the findings of reasonable necessity for the use of a public
place to the extent warranted by a written application signed by a juvenile,
and by a parent of the juvenile, if feasible, stating: (1) the name, age and
address of the juvenile; (2) the name, address and telephone number of a parent
thereof; (3) the height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other physical
characteristics of the juvenile; (4) the necessity that requires the juvenile
to remain upon a public place during the restricted hours otherwise applicable;
(5) the public place; and (6) the beginning and ending of the period of time
involved by date and hour, the Chief of Police or his or her designee may grant
a permit in writing for the juvenile's use of a public place at such hours as
in the opinion of the Chief of Police may reasonably be necessary and
consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.
   (L)   When authorized, by regulation issued by the Chief of Police or his or
her designee in other similar cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handled
as set forth in division (K) of this section but adapted to reasonably
necessary nighttime activities of more juveniles than can readily be dealt with
on an individual special permit basis. Normally such regulation by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee permitting use of public places should be issued
sufficiently in advance to permit appropriate publicity through news media and
through other agencies, such as the schools, and shall define the activity, the
scope of the use of the public places permitted, the period of time involved
not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for termination of the
activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation is reasonably
necessary and is consistent with the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.39 DEFENSE.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.37 that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly
notified the Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 130.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place or establishment during restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile arrest report, issue a
citation or make an arrest under this subchapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no exception or defense in §
130.38 or §
130.39 is present.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012)
LEWD CONDUCT
§ 130.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate, restrict or prohibit lewd
conduct in public places in the town in an effort to protect the public from
such acts.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-10-2015)
§ 130.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEWD ACT. Means public:
      (1)   Exposure of any portion of the human anus or genitals, including
display of the male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered;
      (2)   Touching, caressing or fondling of the male or female genitals or
female breasts, whether clothed or naked;
      (3)   Sexual conduct as defined in this section; or
      (4)   Simulated acts of sex, including intercourse, oral copulation,
sodomy, or masturbation of oneself or by another.
   PUBLIC or PUBLIC DISPLAY. Visible from a public thoroughfare or from
property of others in any portion of any public facility or park, or in any
other public place in a manner so obtrusive as to make it difficult for a
willing person to avoid exposure.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Sexual intercourse or sexual contact.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Means:
      (1)   Any touching of the sexual or other intimate parts of a person done
for the purpose of gratifying sexual desire of either party or a third party;
or
      (2)   Masturbation, manual or instrumental, of oneself in the presence of
another or one person by another.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE.
      (1)   Its ordinary meaning, occurring upon any penetration, however
slight;
      (2)   Any penetration of the vagina or anus, however slight, by an
object, when committed by one person on another, whether such persons are of
the same sex or opposite sex, except when such penetration is accomplished for
medically recognized treatment or diagnostic purposes; or
      (3)   Any contact between persons involving the sex organs of one person
in the mouth or anus of another, whether such people are of the same or
opposite sex.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-10-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S. § 14-4, violation of § 
130.04 is Class 3 misdemeanor, subject to a fine not to exceed $200.
   (C)   (1)   A juvenile who violates any section of §§
130.35 through
130.40 is subject to being adjudicated delinquent. The court may, in its
discretion, impose any dispositional alternatives that are provided in the
State Juvenile Code for any juvenile who is delinquent.
      (2)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any section of §§
130.35 through
130.40 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $100 and imprisonment in the discretion of the court in accordance with
G.S. § 14-4.
   (D)   Effective April 12, 2022, the following civil penalties are fixed for
the violations indicated:
 
    Offense                              Fine
    Discharge of firearms                 
(1)    First offense                  $100
       Second and subsequent offenses $200
 
   (E)   Any person violating §§
130.50 and
130.51 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor, punishable
by serving up to 30 days in jail, and/or a fine of up to $1,000, probation,
community service.
(Ord. 2007-04, passed 9-11-2007; Ord. 2012-01, passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 2015-04,
passed 3-10-2015; Ord. 2022-01, passed 4-12-2022; Ord. 2023-04, passed 11-14-
2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   HOUSING REGULATIONS
         
152.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
         
153.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Enforcement of adopted code
   
150.03   Compliance with code
Swimming Pools
   
150.15   Fences required
Electricity
   
150.30   Installation standards
   
150.31   Code adopted
   
150.32   Liability for damages
   
150.33   Inspector
   
150.34   Permits, inspections
Cross-reference:
   House numbering, see
Chapter 94
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate the construction of buildings, see G.S. §§
160D-402(b), 160D-404(c), 160D-1102, 160D-1104
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth in this chapter as the
Building Code of the town to the extent the Code is applicable for safe and
stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards and use of materials
in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or
otherwise constructed or reconstructed. An official copy of the Code shall be
kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 12-1)
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT OF ADOPTED CODE.
   The County Building Standards Department shall enforce and administer the
building and housing codes adopted in this chapter within the corporate limits
of the town.
(1995 Code, § 12-2)
§ 150.03 COMPLIANCE WITH CODE.
   All buildings or structures which are constructed, reconstructed, erected,
altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or moved within the town
shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of
the State Building Code.
(1995 Code, § 12-3)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.15 FENCES REQUIRED.
   All outdoor residential swimming pools shall be enclosed by a wire fence or
other equivalent type barrier designed as to minimize the possibility of
unauthorized or unwary persons entering the pool area.
(1995 Code, § 12-26)
ELECTRICITY
§ 150.30 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   All electrical installations shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this subchapter and state law, and shall be in conformity with approved
standards for safety to life and property. In every case where no specific type
or class of material, or no specific standards are prescribed by the state law,
regulations issued under the authority of the state law or by this Code, in
conformity with Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the regulations as laid
down in the National Electrical Code, as approved by the American Standards
Association and in the National Electrical Safety Code, shall be prima facie
evidence of conformity with approved standards for safety to life and property.
(1995 Code, § 12-46)
§ 150.31 CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the National Electrical Code of the National
Fire Protection Association (N.F.P.A. No. 70, ASA C1-1965) as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth in this subchapter as
a part of the electrical code of the town. Whenever the provisions of the most
current edition of the National Electrical Code and the provisions of this
subchapter are in conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall govern. An
official copy of the Code shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 12-47)
§ 150.32 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or
lessen the responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating,
controlling or installing any electric wiring, devices, appliances or equipment
for damages to person or property caused by any defect therein, nor shall the
town be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspection
authorized or the certificate of approval as provided in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 12-48)
§ 150.33 INSPECTOR.
   The County Electrical Inspector shall serve as the Electrical Inspector of
the town.
(1995 Code, § 12-49)
§ 150.34 PERMITS, INSPECTIONS.
   The rules and regulations of the county relating to the issuance of permits
for and inspection of electrical work shall govern those permits and
inspections in the town.
(1995 Code, § 12-50)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Finding; purpose
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.004   Implementation/effective date
   
151.005   Administrative liability
   
151.006   Definitions
Minimum Standards
   
151.015   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.016   Structural condition
   
151.017   Basic equipment and facilities
   
151.018   Ventilation
   
151.019   Space, use and location
   
151.020   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.021   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.022   Minimum standards applicable to rooming-houses; exceptions
Inspections; Appeals
   
151.035   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.036   Duties of Inspector
   
151.037   Powers of Inspector
   
151.038   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.039   Administrative procedure
   
151.040   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.041   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.042   Costs; a lien on premises
   
151.043   Alternative remedies
   
151.044   Zoning Board of Adjustment
Abandoned and Unsafe Buildings
   
151.055   Abandoned structures
   
151.056   Unsafe buildings
Minimum Standards Applicable to Lodging Establishments
   
151.085   Applicability
   
151.086   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities
   
151.087   Interior space dimensions
   
151.088   Sanitary conditions
   
151.089   Sanitary facilities
   
151.090   Means of egress
   
151.091   Fire resistance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and other
conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and
detrimental to the health and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-102, 160D-305, 160D-1101, 160D-1102,
160D-1201 through 160D-1206, and 160D-1208 through 160D-1212, it is the purpose
of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1205.
   (C)   The purpose of this chapter is to arrest, remedy and prevent the decay
and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing standards for places of habitation for the
protection of the life, health, safety, welfare and property of the general
public and owners and occupants of places of habitation.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the sections of this
chapter are applicable to all dwellings, rooming-houses and lodging
establishments within the jurisdiction of the town regardless of when the units
were constructed, altered, repaired or improved.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 151.002 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be effective within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.003 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.004 IMPLEMENTATION/EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall become effective upon approval by the governing body of the
town.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.005 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
town officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter unless he or she acted with actual malice.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION.  As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from one location or position to another. The term ALTER in its various
moods and tenses and its participle refers to the making of an ALTERATION.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms occupied or which is intended or
designed to be occupied as the home or residence of one individual, family or
household for housekeeping purposes.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
APPROVED by the Inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated
by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum horizontal
projected area of the building.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, the total square footage of
floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons which has enclosed walls for 50% or more of its perimeter. The term
BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the phrase "or part thereof."
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   CLOSE. Securing the building so that unauthorized persons cannot gain
entrance to the building.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated, in writing,
by the Town Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building, leaving the
property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets which may
retain water.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Pineville Town Administrator or his or her designee.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. Any hotel, motel, inn, tourist home or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay. For purposes of this chapter, the
term LODGING ESTABLISHMENT does not include any hotel, motel, inn, tourist home
or other place providing lodging accommodations for pay that is licensed or
permitted by the state or the County Department of Public Health pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 130A.
   LODGING UNIT. A room or suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay designed for the temporary housing of
paying guests. For purposes of this chapter, a LODGING UNIT does not include a
room in or suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home or other place providing
lodging accommodations for pay designed for the temporary housing of paying
guests that is licensed or permitted by the state or the County Department of
Public Health pursuant to G.S. Chapter 130A.
   MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
    OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have fee simple title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, and
every mortgagee, and owner and holder of a deed of trust and the trustee
therein, of record; with or without accompanying actual possession of the
dwelling or dwelling unit; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus
representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PIER. A masonry support extending from the ground and footing to and
supporting the building or portion thereof. PIER sizes and spacing shall
conform to the specifications of the State Building Code.
   PLACE OF HABITATION. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming-house, rooming
unit, lodging establishment or lodging unit.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The governing body of the town or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town or of
Mecklenburg County or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire,
building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings in the town.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Space within any place of habitation which is open to use by
the general public.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   ROOMING-HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable, and which is not attached to
the ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   TENANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, occupies
a residential building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy in a building.
   TOWN. The Town of Pineville, located in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling which violate or
do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or
more of the requirements established by this chapter.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever words "dwelling," "dwelling unit,"
"rooming-house," "rooming unit" or "premises" are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.015 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.016 through
151.021. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.016 through
151.021.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.016 STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not excessively list, lean or buckle and shall
not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks
which might admit rodents. Ceilings shall conform to the following.
      (1)   There shall be no joists or beams which are decayed, broken,
sagging or improperly supported at the ends.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
sagging and being weak, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
      (3)   Maximum spans for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
      (4)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air and
dust to penetrate rooms.
      (5)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, gypsum wallboard or other
ceiling finish.
      (6)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper, highly combustible or
improper ceiling finish; all ceiling materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (7)   Ceiling joists and beams shall be structurally sound and not likely
to cause structural weakness in the future.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Floors shall conform to the following.
      (1)   There shall be no decayed, termite-damaged, fire-damaged, broken,
overloaded or sagging sills.
      (2)   Sills shall be properly supported and reasonably level.
      (3)   Joists and beams shall not be overloaded, sagging or broken and
shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural weakness in the
future.
      (4)   Maximum spans for floor joist, beams and sills, providing they show
signs of being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the
State Building Code.
      (5)   Flooring shall be weather-tight without holes or excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms.
      (6)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and not decayed, fire damaged
or worn through.
      (7)   There shall be no loose flooring.
      (8)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
      (9)   Floor covering or finishing shall be reasonably smooth, weather-
tight and not worn through.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged so as to dangerously reduce their intended
load bearing characteristics. Foundations shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Beneath the building there shall be firm ground, which is
reasonably dry, properly drained and no water running under the building.
      (2)   There shall be sound footings, adequate bearing.
      (3)   There shall be sound piers, no loose mortar or masonry.
      (4)   There shall be no piers in which the plumb-line from the top center
falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
      (5)   There shall be no isolated solid masonry piers exceeding in height
ten times the least dimension of the pier.
      (6)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (7)   There shall be masonry underpinning on all dwelling units with
ventilation as required by the State Building Code.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or collapse.
      (1)   Porches shall conform to the following.
         (a)   The floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this section, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weather-tight; the ceiling
height may be seven feet; and the attic need not be vented.
         (b)   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform 30 inches or more
above the adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with railings or guards not
less than 36 inches high, unless other effective barriers provide adequate
safety. Guard opening limitations shall conform to the requirements of the
State Building Code.
         (c)   If post and railings are provided, they shall be structurally
sound and not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (2)   Stairs and steps shall conform to the following.
         (a)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks
large enough to constitute accident hazards.
         (b)   Stairwells and flights of stairs more than four risers high
shall have rails not less than two feet six inches measured vertically from the
nose of the treads to the top of the rail.
         (c)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
         (d)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
         (e)   Supports shall not sag and shall be structurally sound and not
likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
         (f)   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform in height, and
treads shall be sound and securely fastened in position and strong enough to
bear a concentrated load of at least 300 pounds without danger of breaking
through.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces. Interior walls shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks which
permit air to penetrate rooms and, if painted or papered, shall be free of
chips or excessive peeling.
      (2)   There shall be no walls in which the plumb-line from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (3)   There shall be no loose plaster, loose boards or other loose wall
materials.
      (4)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or highly combustible or
improper wall finish; all wall materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (5)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (6)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (7)   There shall be no broken or cracked studs or other structural
members.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight. Roofs shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no rafters which are decayed, broken or improperly
supported at the ends.
      (2)   No rafters shall be seriously damaged by fire.
      (3)   Rafters shall be properly braced and tied four feet on center
maximum.
      (4)   The attic shall be ventilated as required by the State Building
Code.
      (5)   Sheathing shall not be loose and shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (6)   There shall be no loose roof covering, no holes, and no leaks
causing damage to the structure or rooms.
      (7)   There shall be a minimum of Class C roof covering.
      (8)   There shall be proper flashing at walls or chimneys.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are in danger of
falling, or in a condition or location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
   (J)   Exterior walls shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no wall in which the plumb-line from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be weather-tight, with no holes or excessive
cracks or decayed boards, or siding material which permit air to penetrate
rooms.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventive
maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing and repair.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.017 BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to an approved potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a state of good repair
and in good working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
      (5)   All plumbing to be installed shall be installed in accordance with
the State Building Code.
      (6)   All plumbing shall be connected to the town sanitary sewer system
where available or to another approved system.
      (7)   All fixtures shall be operable.
      (8)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
      (9)   Water closets shall not be loose or leaking.
      (10)   No leaks shall be in a shower stall floor and/or wall.
      (11)   There shall be adequate facilities for furnishing hot water to
each tub or shower, lavatory and kitchen sink.
      (12)   There shall be installed a potable water supply inside the
building for each dwelling unit.
      (13)   There shall be installed a water closet, tub or shower, lavatory
and sink for each dwelling unit. The kitchen sink shall be at least 12 inches
by 16 inches by six inches.
      (14)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each dwelling unit.
      (15)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be protected from the weather.
      (16)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
installation in protected space.
      (17)   Soil and water pipes shall be supported with no broken or leaking
pipes.
      (18)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit the floor to be readily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (19)   A lodging unit shall not be required to have a kitchen sink, but
if the lodging unit contains a kitchen sink, it shall meet the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   Heating system. Every building and every dwelling unit shall be
weatherproof and capable of being adequately heated, and the heating equipment
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good order and
repair. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities for providing
heat in accordance with either division (B)(1) or (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 68ºF measured at a point three
feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 68ºF measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
         (a)   All electric, gas and oil heating equipment installed on the
premises shall be listed by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. or American Gas
Association and installed in accordance with the provisions of the State
Heating Code.
         (b)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
         (c)   There shall be no holes in flues.
         (d)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
         (e)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
         (f)   Thimbles shall not be broken or cracked.
         (g)   Thimbles shall be high enough for the stovepipe to rise one-
quarter inch per foot minimum.
         (h)   The hearth shall be at least 16 inches deep and eight inches
beyond each side of the fireplace opening.
         (i)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top
and seven inches of either side of the fireplace opening.
         (j)   Fireplaces shall be closed with masonry when the chimney is used
as a flue for a stove.
         (k)   A stove shall be within six feet of a thimble serving it.
         (l)   No combustible material shall be within 12 inches of a
stovepipe.
         (m)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
         (n)   In multiple dwellings and rooming-houses with central heat, the
furnace room shall be enclosed with material having at least a one-hour fire
protection rating.
         (o)   Fireplaces may be used for supplementary heating only and not
for basic heat.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner
determined by the National Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, without hazard to
property or person.
      (4)   In places of habitation, no receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other
fixtures shall be hanging loose.
      (5)   All switches and receptacles shall be safely operable.
      (6)   Every habitable room shall contain not less than two wall-type
electrical convenience receptacles.
      (7)   There shall be installed in every habitable room, bathroom, laundry
room, hallway, stairway and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-
type electrical light fixture; provided, further, that the ceiling light
fixture may be omitted in the living room and bedrooms, provided three
electrical convenience receptacles are installed, one of which is controlled
from a wall switch.
      (8)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (9)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length.
      (10)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (11)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (12)   All wiring to be installed shall be in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.018 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors for adequate ventilation. At least one window in every
habitable room shall be of a size and location to allow egress by an average
adult in the event of fire or other emergency.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to at
least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window size
as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms, except that no window
or skylight shall be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water
closet rooms equipped with an approved ventilation system.
   (D)   All windows and doors opening to the outside shall be adequately
screened unless the room is served by an approved ventilating system. Screens
shall fit openings snugly, and the screen mesh shall not be torn or otherwise
defective.
   (E)   Screens shall not be permanently fixed to the window frame or sash.
   (F)   In bathrooms containing more than one water closet, the window area
shall be at least three square feet of glazed area. Where adequate windows
cannot be provided, metal ducts with at least 72 square inches in open area and
extending from the ceiling through the roof, or mechanical ventilation to the
outside, shall be provided.
   (G)   Every public hall and inside stairway in every multifamily dwelling or
place of habitation shall be adequately lighted at all times with an
illumination of at least three footcandles per square foot in the darkest
portion of the normally traveled stairs and passageways.
   (H)   All windows in dwellings and rooming-houses opening to the outside
shall be reasonably weather-tight and shall have operable locks. If the windows
in a lodging establishment are designed to open to the outside, the windows
shall be reasonably weather-tight and shall have operable locks.
   (I)   Window bars, grills or other impediments to escape in case of fire
shall not be permitted at habitable room windows, except as permitted by the
State Building Code.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.019 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size
in each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code
(Volume VII of the State Building Code).
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over any at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have
a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count for not
more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part
of any room where the ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall
not be considered as part of the floor area computing the total area of the
room to determine maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window standards, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window standards of every habitable room are
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.020 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather. Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant to
deterioration shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other
suitable preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
   (B)   Interior floors, walk and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Floors, walls, ceilings and
fixtures shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water. Surface and
subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to protect buildings and
structures and to prevent development of stagnant ponds.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health. Yards and courts shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards,
rubbish, trash, garbage, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and other similar
material.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code (Volume 1-B of the
State Building Code) except that door width and size requirements shall be
deleted for secondary exits.
      (1)   There shall be two main exits, each at least 30 inches wide and six
feet eight inches high, easily accessible to the occupants of each dwelling or
dwelling unit. All exit doors must be easily operable and remotely located.
(See the State Building Code for exemptions.)
      (2)   Platforms, steps and/or handrails provided to serve exits shall be
maintained in safe condition.
      (3)   There shall be a safe, continuous and unobstructed exit from the
interior of the building to the exterior at street or grade level.
   (J)   Fences. Fences and other accessory buildings shall be maintained in
safe and substantial condition or demolished.
   (K)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (L)   Garbage and rubbish. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and
methods used for the storage, handling and disposal of garbage and rubbish.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, garbage, junk vehicles, see
Chapter 91
§ 151.021 CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents shall be supplied with screens installed or other approved
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (B)   Infestation. 
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain
a dwelling in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or
public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances or any Health Department regulations, and the
owner, operator or agent in control of the dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (D)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the
structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved
outside garbage can as required by county ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.022 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING-HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming-houses and to
every person who operates a rooming-house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming-house, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming-house wherever the facilities are
shared. All these facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. The required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar or uninhabitable basement.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes.  Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming-house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming-house; and he
or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming-house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming-house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming-house or through any other room
therein.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
INSPECTIONS; APPEALS
§ 151.035 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner
shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (F)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling or rooming-house shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
infesting the dwelling unit or rooming unit; provided, however, that the owner
shall be responsible for the extermination if as a consequence of violations of
the standards of fitness, the dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit is
not reasonably impervious to pests.
   (G)   Heating. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for providing
adequate operable facilities and appliances supplying heat throughout the
dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit in compliance with the standards of
fitness; every occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in
the use of the facilities and appliances.
   (H)   Care of premises. No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface or
otherwise impair any of the facilities or equipment of the owner on the
premises which he or she occupies and controls, or any part of the building
itself.
   (I)   Responsibility for violations. Every owner shall remain ultimately
responsible for violations of responsibilities imposed upon him or her by this
chapter or any other ordinance, although a similar responsibility may also be
imposed upon the occupant, and although the occupant may have agreed to bear
the responsibility imposed by ordinance upon the owner.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.036 DUTIES OF INSPECTOR.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties
and powers herein prescribed. It shall be the duty of this officer or his or
her designee:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to those dwellings or dwelling
units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform any other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.037 POWERS OF INSPECTOR.
   The Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To continually investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in
order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of those officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.038 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall
give the Inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
and its premises at all reasonable times and with one week notice for the
purposes of the inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or
dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.039 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten days nor more than 30
days after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner and any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the time and place fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of that determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a reasonable specified period of
time.
      (3)   The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close
the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and improvements
have been made. Upon completion of required improvements, a new certificate of
occupancy must be issued prior to subsequent leasing or sale of dwelling to a
third party. Hardship cases may be handled by the Inspector, recommending time
or minimum requirement waivers to the town's Zoning Board of Adjustment, which
body shall act on the recommendation.
      (4)   If the Inspector determines that, the dwelling is dilapidated, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a reasonable specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days, unless the
owner elects to proceed under the procedures set forth in this division, or
unless an application for an extension of up to 90 days is applied for by the
owner and granted by the Code Enforcement Official for good cause shown.
         (a)   1.   Within ten days from the date of the order determining that
the building is dilapidated, the owner may notify the Code Enforcement Official
in writing of his or her intent to make the repairs or alterations to the place
of habitation so as to comply with the minimum standards of fitness.
            2.   Upon receipt of an owner's written intent to repair the place
of habitation within the time provided in this division, the Code Enforcement
Official shall issue supplemental orders directing the owner to commence and
complete the repairs or alterations necessary to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness.
            3.   The Code Enforcement Official shall allow a reasonable period
of time for the owner to make the repairs or alterations, but in no event shall
the period of time allowed for the repairs or alterations be less than 30 days
nor more than 90 days unless an extension of up to 90 days is granted by the
Code Enforcement Official for good cause shown.
            4.   Upon application by the owner within the specified period of
time, the Code Enforcement Official may grant extensions of up to one year for
an owner-occupied dwelling, or up to 180 days for all other places of
habitation for good cause shown.
         (b)   If the owner fails to give notice of either an intent to repair
as provided in this division or notice of appeal of the decision of the Code
Enforcement Official to the Housing Appeals Board within the time specified for
such an appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall proceed in accordance with
divisions (B)(4)(a)1. through (B)(4)(a)4 above.
         (c)   1.   The Code Enforcement Official shall cause the complaint and
notice issued under division (A) above and the findings of fact and order
issued under this division to be filed in the notice of lis pendens in the
office of the clerk of the county superior court. From the date and time of
indexing by the clerk of court, the complaint and notice of hearing or findings
of fact and order shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the
owners of and parties in interest in the place of habitation.
            2.   A copy of the notice of lis pendens shall be served upon the
owners and parties in interest in the place of habitation at the time of filing
in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1206. The notice of lis pendens shall remain in
full force and effect until it is cancelled. The Code Enforcement Official
shall have the authority to notify the clerk of court to cancel the notice of
lis pendens when the Code Enforcement Official determines that there no longer
is a need for the notice to remain in effect.
         (d)   1.   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to division (B)
(4)(b) above that a dwelling must be vacated and closed or removed or
demolished, under this section, notice of the order shall be given by first
class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for
affordable housing that has filed a written request for the notices.
            2.   A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of the notice
shall be given before removal or demolition by action of the Code Enforcement
Official, to allow the opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the
owner to make repairs, lease or purchase the property for the purpose of
providing affordable housing.
            3.   The Code Enforcement Official or the Town Clerk shall certify
the mailing of the notices, and the certification shall be conclusive in the
absence of fraud. Only an organization that has filed a written request for the
notices may raise the issue of failure to mail the notices, and the sole remedy
shall be an order requiring the Code Enforcement Official to wait 45 days
before causing removal or demolition.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to
vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the governing body of the town at its
next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Inspector, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-305 and 160D-1208.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling
or dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the
Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding division (C)(1),
the Inspector shall submit to the governing body an ordinance ordering the
Inspector to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered,
improved or vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the Inspector, and pending the removal or demolition, to
placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203 and §
151.041.
      (3)   Civil action to remove occupant. If any occupant fails to comply
with an order to vacate a place of habitation the Code Enforcement Official may
file a civil action in the name of the town to remove the occupant. The action
shall be filed and conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1203.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.  
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the town’s Zoning Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter referred to as “Board,” a notice of appeal which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
paper constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
      (2)   When appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless
the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of this requirement would
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall
not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due
cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by
the Board or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-
305, 160D-1208 and division (E) of this section.
      (3)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have the
powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of the members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of
the Inspector.
      (4)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application of
this chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of this
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (E)   Review of decisions. Every decision of the Board shall be subject to
review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of
the decision of the Board, but not otherwise, as provided in G.S. §§ 160D-305
and 160D-1208. In addition, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the
Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall also have the right, within
30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition
the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the Inspector pending
a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §§ 160D-305 and 160D-
1208.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 151.040 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit to that effect,
then the serving of the complaint or order upon those persons may be made by
publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county, the second publication being not less than
ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.041 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the governing body of the town of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203
and §
151.039(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling
or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by this chapter of the governing body
and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or dwelling
unit a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by registered or certified mail, and the Code Enforcement
Official makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or
order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under this chapter. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
   (C)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. §
160D-1203.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. passed 4-13-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203, the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.041 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be enforced and
the costs collected as the lien for special assessments provided by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10.
   (B)   If a dwelling or other structure is removed or demolished by the Code
Enforcement Official, he or she shall sell the materials of the dwelling or
other structure and any personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in
or attached to the dwelling or other structure and shall credit the proceeds of
the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining
shall be deposited in the superior court by the Code Enforcement Official,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 151.043 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
151.003, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent
the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.044 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The town's Zoning Board of Adjustment shall perform the duties prescribed by
§
151.039(D) and shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
ABANDONED AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.055 ABANDONED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any abandoned structure that is a health or safety hazard as a result
of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by
vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities shall be
repaired, closed or demolished. It shall be unlawful for the owner of an
abandoned structure to allow the abandoned structure to become or to remain a
health or safety hazard as defined in this division.
   (B)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Official shall have the authority to
attempt to accomplish the repair, closing or demolition of unsafe abandoned
structures through the procedures set out in §
151.039, except that if the estimated cost to repair the structure is 50% or
more of its value, the structure shall be considered dilapidated, and the Code
Enforcement Official shall order that it be demolished and removed.
      (2)   Upon the failure of the owner of an unsafe abandoned structure to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, close or
demolish the structure, the Code Enforcement Official shall present the matter
to the Town Council. If the Town Council finds that the abandoned structure is
unsafe pursuant to division (A), it may adopt an ordinance ordering the Code
Enforcement Official to cause the abandoned structure to be repaired, closed or
demolished. Each ordinance shall be recorded as provided in §
151.041, and the cost of any repair, closing or demolition caused to be made by
the Code Enforcement Official shall be a lien on the premises as provided in §
151.042.
   (C)   For purposes of divisions (A) and (B) above, the term ABANDONED
STRUCTURE shall mean any structure that has not been occupied or used, by its
owner or by some person acting under authority of its owner, for a continuous
period of 30 days or longer.
   (D)   If the Town Council shall have adopted an ordinance, or the Code
Enforcement Official shall have issued an order ordering a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
151.039, and if the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept the
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the ordinance
or order, if the Town Council shall find that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in order to render
it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the dwelling in its
vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety, morals and
welfare of the town in that the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would
create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants,
would attract persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or contribute
to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area, and would
render unavailable property and a dwelling which might otherwise have been made
available to ease the persistent shortage of decent and affordable housing in
this state, the Town Council may, after the expiration of the one-year period,
enact an ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner, setting forth the
following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then-
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the
then-current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.056 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   When it appears to the Code Enforcement Official that a building is
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the powers granted by G.S. §§ 160D-1119
through 160D-1122.
   (B)   An order issued by the Code Enforcement Official under the authority
of this section shall be certified by the Town Clerk and filed in the record of
lis pendens, as provided in § 6.61 of the Charter.
   (C)   Upon the failure by the owner of the affected building to comply with
an order issued under the authority of this section, further enforcement of the
order shall be pursuant to the procedures provided in §§
151.039(C) through (E),
151.040 and
151.041.
   (D)   In addition to other authority granted by this section, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-1119.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 151.085 APPLICABILITY.
   All of the sections of this chapter and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to lodging establishments and
to every person who operates a lodging establishment or who occupies or lets to
another for occupancy any lodging unit, except as provided in the following
sections of this subchapter, or as expressly otherwise excluded in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.086 WATER CLOSET, HAND LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES.
   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly
connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working condition,
shall be supplied for each lodging unit. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.087 INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   Interior space dimensions shall comply with all applicable requirements of
the State Building Code.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.088 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every lodging establishment shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the lodging establishment. The operator
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the lodging
establishment is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.089 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required by §
151.017 shall be located within a room which affords privacy and is separate
from the habitable room, and which is accessible from a common hall and without
going outside the hotel/motel room.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.090 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   Means of egress shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
State Building Code.
   (B)   Deadbolt locks, if any, on exterior doors shall be operable from the
exterior by the use of a key, card or combination and from the inside by a knob
or lever without the use of a key, card or combination or special knowledge or
effort to operate; no person shall install a deadbolt lock on a hotel room or
motel room door that does not comply with all applicable laws.
   (C)   There shall be conspicuously displayed immediately adjacent to or on
the inside of every exit door from a sleeping room, a diagram depicting two
evacuation routes.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.091 FIRE RESISTANCE.
   Walls, floors, ceilings, doors and windows shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the State Building Code if damaged or constructed of highly
flammable material.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order, and each
day that any failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to §
151.039, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of either of the following divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)
(1)(b), who fails to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to
repair, alter or improve the dwelling or rooming-house or to vacate and close
and remove or demolish the dwelling or rooming-house within the time specified
in the order, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 for the
first day of noncompliance and $25 for each day thereafter until the dwelling
is brought into compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered
by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay
the penalty within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance:
         (a)   A dwelling, except an owner who occupies the dwelling as his or
her principal place of residence; or
         (b)   A rooming-house, except when the owner resides in the rooming-
house.
      (2)   Any owner of a lodging establishment who fails to comply with an
order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, alter or improve the lodging
establishment, within the time specified in the order, shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $1,000 for the first day of noncompliance and
$100 for each day thereafter until the lodging establishment is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Official in his or her discretion may agree,
in writing only, to release, in whole or in part, an owner from liability for
the civil penalty imposed pursuant to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above if the
owner voluntarily agrees, as consideration for the release, to convey to the
town, or to some other person or organization, the property from which the
civil penalty arose upon such terms and conditions as the owner and the Code
Enforcement Official might agree.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation that is
imminently dangerous to health or safety to collect rent from another person
who occupied the place of habitation at the time it became imminently dangerous
to health or safety or to permit any other person to begin occupancy of the
place of habitation. A place of habitation is imminently dangerous to health or
safety if it is in violation of any one of the following minimum standards of
fitness established by §
151.015:
         (a)   Rotted, fire-damaged or insect-damaged steps, flooring or
structural supports, as provided in §§
151.016(B)(1) and
151.020(I)(2);
         (b)   Fire hazard in a chimney that is in use, as provided in §
151.017;
         (c)   Unsafe wiring, as provided in §
151.017(C);
         (d)   Unsafe ceiling or roof, as provided in §
151.016(A)(1), (A)(7), (G)(1) and (G)(5);
         (e)   No potable water supply, as provided in §
151.017(A);
         (f)   No operable heating equipment, as required by §
151.017(B) during November, December, January, February or March;
         (g)   No operable sanitary facilities, as provided in §
151.017(A);
         (h)   Severe rat infestation where the place of habitation is not
impervious to pests, as provided in §
151.020(K);
         (i)   No safe, continuous, and unobstructed exit from the interior of
the building to the exterior at street or grade level, as provided in §
151.020(I);
         (j)   No access provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit without
passing through a public space, as provided in §
151.090;
         (k)   Any window or door providing access to any dwelling unit or
rooming unit lacking an operable lock or the owner failing to provide a change
of locks or keys to a new tenant of such dwelling unit or rooming unit, as
provided in §§
151.018 and
151.090;
         (l)   No operable smoke detector or alarm, as provided in §
151.090; or
         (m)   Every place of habitation shall comply with the current county
health regulations governing carbon monoxide alarms.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
done either of the following to permit another person, other than a person who
occupied the place of habitation at the time of the issuance of the complaint
and notice, to occupy the place of habitation without first informing the
person, in writing, of the issuance of the complaint and notice and providing
him or her with a copy of such complaint and notice:
         (a)   Has received a complaint and notice authorized by §
151.039(C) with regard to the place of habitation; or
         (b)   Has gained knowledge by other means that the Code Enforcement
Official has issued such a complaint and notice regarding the place of
habitation.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
received a final code enforcement order, after all periods for appeal to the
Housing Appeals Board and petitions to the court have expired pursuant to §
151.039, to fail to comply with such order. However, with respect to an order
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the place of habitation, no civil
penalty shall accrue, notwithstanding divisions (B)(2)(b) and (B)(2)(c) of this
section, nor shall any criminal liability attach until 30 days following the
relocation of the occupants of the places of habitation.
      (7)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, any
person who violates division (B)(5), (6) or (7) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Except as provided in this division, there shall not be any criminal
liability for violation of any section of this chapter.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy specified in this and in other sections of
this chapter, the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by the town
by injunction and order or abatement or by any other equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction, as specified in G.S. § 153A-123(d) and
(e).
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 5-13-2008)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Effective date
Flood Damage Prevention; Generally
   
152.015   Statutory authorization
   
152.016   Findings of fact
   
152.017   Statement of purpose
   
152.018   Objectives
   
152.019   Definitions
   
152.020   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.021   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.022   Floodplain development permit required
   
152.023   Compliance
   
152.024   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.025   Interpretation
   
152.026   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.040   Designation of Local Administrator
   
152.041   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
152.042   Duties and responsibilities of Local Administrator
   
152.043   Administrative procedures
   
152.044   Variance procedures
   
152.045   Conditions for variances
   
152.046   Standard for granting variance
   
152.047   Miscellaneous conditions
   
152.048   Notification and recordkeeping
   
152.049   Appeal from Board of Adjustment
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.060   General requirements
   
152.061   Specific standards
   
152.062   Standards for streams with drainage areas of one square mile or
greater not having established base flood elevations and/or floodways
Legal Status Provisions
   
152.075   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing floodway
regulations
   
152.076   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
152.077   Expiration of floodplain development permits issued after adoption of
this chapter
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Flood map areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   The regulations set out in this chapter (sometimes herein referred to as
“this regulation” or “this chapter” shall be known and may be cited as the
“Floodplain Regulations of Pineville, North Carolina.”
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.002 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter is June 25, 1987.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION; GENERALLY
§ 152.015 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in G.S. Chapter 143,
Article 21, Part 6; G.S. §§ 160D-1-2, 160D-1-9(d), 160D-102, 160D-107, 160D-
108, 160D-108(d), 160D-108.1, 160D-109, 160D-109(c), 160D-302, 160D-402(b)
through (d), 160D-403, 160D-403(b) through (g), 160D-404(c), 160D-405, 160D-
406, 160D-502, 160D-601, 160D-603, 160D-604, 160D-604(d), 160D-605(a) and (b),
160D-701 through 160D-706, 160D-903, 160D-905, 160D-908 through 160D-910, 160D-
913, 160D-915, 160D-916, 160D-921 through 160D-925, 160D-1102 through 160D-
1130, 160D-1207, 160D-1311 through 160D-1315, 160D-1320, 160D-1402, 160D-
1403.1, 160D-1403.2, and 160D-1405 delegated to local governmental units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare.
(1995 Code, § 26-26) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014; Ord. passed 4-13-2021)
§ 152.016 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in the loss of life, property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base, all
of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains, causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazards to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(1995 Code, § 26-27) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.017 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters
or which may increase flood hazards to other lands.
(1995 Code, § 26-28) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.018 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The regulations of the special flood hazard herein set forth are
intended to protect areas of designated floodplains subject to and necessary
for regulating flood waters and to permit and encourage the retention of open-
land uses which will be so located and designed as to constitute a harmonious
and appropriate part of the physical development of the city as provided in the
comprehensive plans as they are adopted and amended from time to time.
   (B)   The specific intent in establishing the special flood hazard areas
composed of floodway and floodway fringe districts includes the following:
      (1)   To control in flood hazard areas, uses such as fill dumping,
storage of materials, structures, buildings and any other works which, acting
alone or in combination with other existing or future uses, would cause
damaging flood heights and velocities by obstructing flows and reducing
floodplain storage;
      (2)   To protect human life and health;
      (3)   To minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood-
control projects;
      (4)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (5)   To permit certain uses which can be appropriately located in flood
hazard areas and to assure those permitted uses will not impede the flow of
flood waters or otherwise cause danger to life and property at or above or
below their locations along the floodways;
      (6)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (7)   To provide sufficient drainage courses to carry abnormal flows of
stormwater in periods of heavy precipitations;
      (8)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines and streets and
bridges located in floodplains;
      (9)   To meet the needs of the streams to carry flood waters and protect
the creek channels and floodplains from encroachment so that flood heights and
flood damage will not be increased;
      (10)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood-
blight areas; and
      (11)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to permit only that development within the
floodplain which is appropriate in light of the probability of flood damage and
presents a reasonable social and economic use of land in relation to the
hazards involved. The regulations hereinafter set forth shall apply to all
property located within the special flood hazard area and the future conditions
flood fringe area as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps and the Floodplain
Land Use Maps. It is the intent that these regulations combine with and
coordinate with the zoning ordinance regulations for the zoning district in
which the property is located. Any use not permitted by the zoning regulations
shall not be permitted in the floodway districts or the floodway fringe
districts, and any use permitted by the zoning regulations shall be permitted
in these districts only upon meeting conditions and requirements as prescribed
in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 26-29) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.019 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Structures which are located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage sheds are common
urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the same parcel
as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   BASEMENT. The lowest level or story of a building which has its floor
subgrade on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system. A BREAKAWAY WALL shall
have a design safe-loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20
pounds per square foot. A wall with a loading resistance of more than 20 pounds
per square foot requires an architect's or professional engineer's certificate.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   COMMUNITY BASE FLOOD. The flood, determined using future land use
conditions, having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   COMMUNITY BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The water surface elevation shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map Flood Hazard Data Table and in the Flood Insurance
Study, having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year,
determined using future land use conditions.
   COMMUNITY CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS (CoCLOMR). A letter from the
Floodplain Administrator that provides conditional approval of a study that
proposes to change the location of the community encroachment lines, and/or the
location of the community flood fringe line and/or community base flood
elevations.
   COMMUNITY ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a stream or other watercourse
and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
FEMA base flood without  cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation
more than 0.1 foot (see
Appendix A following this chapter).
   COMMUNITY ENCROACHMENT LINES. Lateral limits of the community encroachment
area, within which, in the direction of the stream or other body of water, no
structure or fill may be added, unless specifically permitted by this chapter
(see
Appendix A following this chapter).
   COMMUNITY FLOOD FRINGE AREA. The land area located between the community
encroachment line and the community flood fringe line as defined herein (see
Appendix A following this chapter).
   COMMUNITY FLOOD FRINGE LINE. This is the line that depicts the outer limits
of the community flood fringe area (outer limits of the community special flood
hazard area).
   COMMUNITY LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CoLOMR). A letter from the Floodplain
Administrator that provides final approval of a study, based on as-built
conditions, that changes the location of the community encroachment lines and/
or the community flood fringe lines.
   COMMUNITY SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. This is the land subject to a 1% or
greater chance of flooding in any given year from a community base flood. It
includes the FEMA floodway, community encroachment area, FEMA flood fringe area
and the community flood fringe area (see
Appendix A following this chapter).
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA's comments on whether a
project, if built as proposed, would meet the minimum NFIP standards.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Building uses including, hospitals, schools, day care
facilities, nursing homes/assisted living centers, police/fire/medic facilities
and other uses determined by the Administrator.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   DRY PUBLIC STREET. A public street at the intersection of an existing or
proposed driveway where the surface of the pavement is at an elevation above
the community base flood elevation.
   DRYLAND ACCESS. A gravel, paved or concrete access route, at least 12 feet
wide, which is above the community base flood elevation and connects a
habitable building to a dry public street.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance
Studies for a community are officially approved by FEMA and are to be used for
local regulation and for compliance with NFIP sanctions.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain. Building renovations
contained within the existing building footprint area are not considered an
encroachment.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel
(or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots
for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot
on which the manufactured home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads and the construction of streets) is completed before the effective date of
this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of the additional sites by the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and with final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FEMA BASE FLOOD. The flood, determined using land use conditions as of July
1999 having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   FEMA BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map and the Flood Insurance Study having a a 1% chance of
equaling or exceeding that level in any given year determined using land use
conditions present at the time of the study
   FEMA FLOOD FRINGE AREA. The land area located between the FEMA floodway
encroachment lines and the line depicting the maximum elevation subject to
inundation by the FEMA base flood as defined herein (for illustration see
Attachment A of Ord. 2009-03, which is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein).
   FEMA FLOOD FRINGE LINE. The line on a map that depicts the outer limits of
the FEMA flood
fringe area.
   FEMA FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the FEMA base flood,
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 0.5 feet.
   FEMA FLOODWAY LINES. The lateral limits of the FEMA Floodway (see Attachment
A of Ord. 2009-03, which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, in both
digital and printed format, on which the Federal Emergency Management Agency
has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. The date of the town's original FIRM is
March 18, 1987 and this date should be used to determine whether a structure is
pre-FIRM or post-FIRM.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of
special flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations, flood
insurance risk zones and other flood data in a community. The study includes a
Flood Insurance Study report and/or Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation to which all structures located
within the community special flood hazard area must be elevated (or
floodproofed if nonresidential). Within areas where base flood elevations
(BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the community base flood
elevation plus one foot of freeboard. In areas where no BFE has been
established, all structures and other development must be elevated (or
floodproofed if nonresidential) to two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land subject to inundation by the community base flood and
is encompassed by the community special flood hazard area.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR (or ADMINISTRATOR). The person, agent or his or her
designees appointed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Either an individual floodplain development
permit or a general floodplain development permit issued for development in the
floodplain per the requirements of §
152.041.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS TECHNICAL GUIDANCE DOCUMENT. A document developed by
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Storm Water Services Staff to more clearly explain the
application of the provisions of this chapter, specifically the floodplain
development permit provisions, through the use of charts and related written
materials. The Technical Guidance Document shall not be a part of this chapter,
and shall be solely for illustrative and educational purposes. If there is any
discrepancy between the Technical Guidance Document and this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation to which all structures located
within the Community Special Flood Hazard Area or FEMA Special Flood Hazard
Area must be elevated (or floodproofed if nonresidential). This elevation is
the Community Base Flood Elevation plus one foot of freeboard.
   FLOODWALL. A wall built along a shore or bank to protect an area from
flooding.
   FLOODWAY. Either the FEMA floodway or the community encroachment area.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Insurance Rate Map that
reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
   FLOOR. See definition of LOWEST FLOOR.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD FRINGE AREA. The land area located between the
community encroachment lines and the line depicting the maximum elevation
subject to inundation by the community base flood as defined herein (for an
illustration, see Appendix A to this chapter).
   GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued for certain types of
development in the floodplain per §
152.041.
   HABITABLE BUILDING. A structure designed primarily for or used for human
habitation. This includes but is not limited to houses, condominiums,
townhomes, restaurants, retail establishments,  manufacturing buildings,
commercial buildings, office buildings, manufactured homes and similar uses. It
does not include accessory structures (see definition above).
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program. Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation
Officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966 as amended in 1980.
   INDIVIDUAL FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit for development in the
floodplain that involves activities not listed in §
152.041(B)(1) and may not qualify for a general floodplain development permit.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A letter from FEMA that officially removes a
property or building from the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) that was
inadvertently shown in the SFHA on the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official amendment to the current
effective FEMA FIRM based on as-built conditions and/or more accurate data. It
is issued by FEMA and may change FEMA Base Flood Elevations, the location of
the FEMA Floodway Lines and/or the location of the FEMA Flood Fringe line.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A letter from FEMA that
officially removes a property from the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) as
a result of placing fill on the property.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including the
basement and/or attached garage; see definition of FLOOR). An unfinished or
flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a
building's LOWEST FLOOR provided that the enclosure is not built so as to
render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design
requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The value of a building, excluding land value, that is
determined by an appraiser certified in the state using the cost approach
method. Use of the "income capitalization approach" is not acceptable. Market
value must be determined based on the building condition prior to start of
construction (for proposed improvements) or before damage occurred (for damage
repair). The value of the land and site improvements (landscaping, driveways,
detached accessory structures, and the like) is not included. The values of the
use and occupancy (business income) are not included. The Floodplain
Administrator may use the tax value of the building in lieu of other methods
described herein. MARKET VALUE also means the actual cash value (ACV) of a
building minus depreciation. Actual cash value is the cost to replace a
building on the same parcel with a new building of like-kind quality, minus
depreciation due to age, use, and neglect. ACV does not consider loss in value
mainly due to outmoded design or location factors. Depreciation accounts for
the physical condition of a structure. Depreciation does not take into account
functional obsolescence or factors that are external to the structure.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with the NORTH
AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88).
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM. A federal program that provides insurance
coverage for flood damage to qualified buildings in communities that agree to
adopt and enforce ordinances that meet or exceed FEMA requirements to reduce
the risk of flooding.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Construction of a replacement structure commenced after
total demolition, or renovation/rehabilitation of an existing structure that
results in the partial or complete removal of two external walls and has a
total cost equal to or exceeding 50% of the market value of the structure
before the start of construction of the improvement. For flood insurance
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION also means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after March 18, 1987, and includes subsequent
improvements to such structures (see definition of FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP).
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after June 25,
1987.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR USE. Any legally existing building or use which
fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   NON-SOLID FENCE. A fence with at least 75% open area and with vertical
supports each no more than 25 square inches in cross sectional area.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. If a datum other than NAVD 88 is used, then use the datum listed as
the reference datum on the applicable FIRM panel for use on elevation
certificate completion. See Flood Insurance Administration (FIA)-20 part 1, 8.
   OPEN HOUSE FORUM. A public meeting held by the owner of the proposed levee
and the Director of Mecklenburg County Storm Water Services, or his or her
designee. The purpose of the OPEN HOUSE FORUM is to provide an opportunity for
discussion between the owner that has submitted an application for the
construction of a levee, nearby property owners and other interested parties.
   PLOT PLAN. A scaled drawing of a parcel of land showing the location of
significant natural features and existing and proposed manmade features.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRELIMINARY FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (PFIRM). A map(s) released by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for public comment prior to the
effective date of the FIRM
as established by FEMA. The map may be in both digital and printed format and
shows the Community and FEMA Special Flood Hazard Areas, Community Encroachment
Areas and FEMA Floodways, FEMA and Community Base Flood Elevations, flood
insurance risk premium zones and other data. The data and maps are subject to
change prior to the effective date.
   PRELIMINARY FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (PFIS). A narrative report released by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for public comment prior to the effective
date. Information contained in the PFIS includes a description of past flooding
and studies, the study area, engineering methods, Community and FEMA Base Flood
Elevations, other community and FEMA flood data. The Flood Insurance Rate Maps
are also included as part of the Flood Insurance Study. The data and maps are
subject to change prior to the effective date.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PROJECT. A development activity that is physically separate, functionally
independent and not constructed at the same time as another development
activity.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a car or
light-duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporarily living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonable
use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor, for regulatory purposes, of
structures in the FEMA and/or Community Special Flood Hazard Area.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with this chapter or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts
of its noncompliance. Ways that impact may be  reduced include protecting the
structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the
enforcement provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar
violations, or reducing federal financial exposure with regard to the structure
or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during any ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The FEMA Special Flood Hazard Area.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure (including a
manufactured home) on a site, such as pouring of slabs or footing, installation
of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the state of excavation or
the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction
does not include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not parts of the main structure. For substantial improvement,
the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures that are principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten-year period where the cost of repairs at
the time of each flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, or combination thereof, where the total cost equals
or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT also means any repair, reconstruction, or
improvement to a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period,
for which the total cost of repairs, reconstruction or improvement at the time
of each alteration, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred or the substantial improvement began. The Floodplain
Administrator may determine if separate actions constitute a single project (§
152.042(P)).
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   TECHNICALLY MEASURABLE. An activity and/or condition that can be modeled
within the stated or commonly known accuracy of the FEMA approved hydraulic
models or other engineering computations, and may have an impact on base flood
elevations. The Floodplain Administrator will determine if a proposed activity
and/or condition meets the TECHNICALLY MEASURABLE definition.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance
required in §§
152.040 through
152.062 is presumed to be in violation, until such time as the documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, channel or other topographic
feature within a special flood hazard area on or over which waters flow at
least periodically. WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which
substantial flood damage may occur.
(1995 Code, § 26-30) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.020 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands in the land use jurisdiction of the
town within the area shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) or any FEMA
and/or locally approved revisions to data shown on the FIRMs, as being located
within the FEMA and Community Special Flood Hazard Areas or land adjacent to
the Special Flood Hazard Areas if it is affected by the work that is taking
place.
(1995 Code, § 26-31) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The FEMA and Community Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified
in the effective Flood Insurance Study (FIS) dated February 19, 2014 and the
accompanying Mecklenburg County Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), and local or
FEMA approved revisions to the FIRM and/or FIS, are adopted by reference and
declared to be part of this chapter.
   (B)   In areas where a Preliminary FIRM and Preliminary FIS exist, Community
Base Flood Elevations shown on the Preliminary FIRM and Preliminary FIS shall
be used for local regulatory purposes, if they are higher than those shown on
the effective FIRM and FIS.
   (C)   Maps are as follows for the jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Town of Pineville dated March 18, 1987.
      (2)   City of Charlotte dated August 15 1978.
      (3)   Mecklenburg County Unincorporated Area, dated June 1, 1981.
(1995 Code, § 26-32) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.022 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities. The Floodplain Regulations Technical Guidance Document may be used
for illustrative purposes to assist in determining the applicable type of
floodplain development permit required.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.023 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(1995 Code, § 26-33) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.024 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances or any
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, or which shall be
adopted or issued, in conformity with law, relating to the use of buildings or
premises; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or requires larger yards, courts or other open spaces
than are imposed or required by the existing provisions of laws or ordinances,
or by the rules, regulations or permits or by the easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(1995 Code, § 26-34) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.025 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and applications of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(1995 Code, § 26-35) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.026 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or by any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 26-36) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.040 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The town designates the County Floodplain Administrator or his or her
designated agent as the person to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter through a properly executed, legally binding interlocal agreement.
(1995 Code, § 26-51) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A floodplain development permit is required for any development within
the community special flood hazard area (CSFHA) and is subject to the
conditions below. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to create, and
amend from time to time as necessary, a Floodplain Regulations Technical
Guidance Document to help explain the application of the provisions of this
chapter, specifically the floodplain development permit provisions, through the
use of charts and related written materials. The Floodplain Regulations
Technical Guidance Document shall not be a part of this chapter, and shall be
solely for illustrative and educational purposes. If there is any discrepancy
between the Floodplain Regulations Technical Guidance Document and this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Floodplain development permits fall into one of two types: general
floodplain development permits (GFDP) and individual floodplain development
permits (IFDP). If the proposed development activities meet the requirements of
the general floodplain development permit, an individual floodplain development
permit is not required.
      (1)   General floodplain development permit. The intent of the general
floodplain development permit (GFDP) is to allow uses or activities in the
community special flood hazard area (including the FEMA floodway and community
encroachment area) which inherently will not increase FEMA and/or community
base flood elevations. The following uses and activities are permitted under a
GFDP, without the need for an individual floodplain development permit, flood
study or variance, as long as they result in no technically measurable
increases in FEMA and/or community base flood elevations:
         (a)   General farming, pasture, horticulture, forestry, wildlife
sanctuaries, gardens, lawns, landscaping, mulch 12 inches or less in depth, and
other similar activities;
         (b)   Utility infrastructure (poles, sewer manholes, vent pipes,
underground utilities and the like), sign poles, non-solid fences and other
similar activities;
         (c)   On-grade driveways, trails, sidewalks, boardwalks, roads and
road maintenance; storm drainage system construction, repairs and maintenance
(major and minor system) and other similar activities. The Floodplain
Administrator must be notified in writing, including a project description and
sketch plan, prior to commencement of these activities;
         (d)   Interior renovations with a value of less than $10,000, to a
structure with its lowest floor below the Flood Protection Elevation must meet
the requirements of §
152.061(G); and
         (e)   Interior renovations of any value, to a structure with its
lowest floor at or above the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Individual floodplain development permits. Individual floodplain
development permits are required for projects that do not meet the requirements
of a general floodplain development permit. Application for an individual
floodplain development permit (IFDP) shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development
activities proposed to be located within the community special flood hazard
area. Requirements for submittal are available from the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (3)   Certification requirements.
         (a)   Final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) (for
either residential or nonresidential buildings) or floodproofing certificate
(FEMA Form 81-65) is required after construction is completed and prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or a temporary certificate of occupancy.
It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of final as-built construction of the elevation
or floodproofed elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities.
The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same. When
floodproofing is utilized, the certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by this review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or
temporary certificate of occupancy. In some instances, another certification
may be required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit
the certification or failure to make the corrections required shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of
occupancy.
         (b)   For proposed development to be located in the Community or FEMA
Special Flood Hazard Area outside of the community encroachment area and the
FEMA floodway, a certification from a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer that states that no fill material was placed within the FEMA floodway
or community encroachment area of any watercourse will be required prior to
issuance of a certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   For proposed development within the community encroachment area
or the FEMA floodway, an as-built topographic map prepared by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer will be required prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate of occupancy. This is in
addition to the requirements of §
152.061(F).
         (d)   If a manufactured home is placed within the floodplain and the
elevation of the chassis is 36 inches or higher above adjacent grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required.
         (e)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within the floodplain, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b) above:
            1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.061(K);
            2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.061(L); and
            3.   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.061(M).
      (4)   Permit application requirements.
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include but shall not be
limited to the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            1.   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            2.   The location of the community flood fringe line, community
encroachment line, FEMA flood fringe line and FEMA floodway line as shown on
the FIRM or other flood map, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
            3.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map;
            4.   The FEMA base flood elevation (BFE), community base flood
elevation (CBFE), and the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE);
            5.   The existing and proposed location of any watercourse that
will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            6.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer as deemed necessary by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Proposed elevation of all development within the community or
FEMA special flood hazard area, including but not limited to:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE will be floodproofed; and
            3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         (c)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an inspection and operational plan that includes but
is not limited to installation, exercise and maintenance of floodproofing
measures.
         (d)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            2.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
community or FEMA special flood hazard area (see §
152.061(D)).
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
            1.   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
            2.   Documentation for proper placement of recreational vehicles
and/or temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of
§
152.061(K) and (L) are met.
         (g)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (5)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development;
         (c)   The flood protection elevation required for the reference level
and all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of
all public utilities;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the community and/or FEMA Floodway of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
         (g)   The flood openings requirements per §
152.061(B).
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Local Floodplain Administrator or his or her designated agent
shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Reviewing, approving and issuing all floodplain development permits in
a timely manner to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have
been satisfied;
   (B)   Reviewing, approving and issuing all documents applicable to Letters
of Map Change;
   (C)   Advising the permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required; and if specific federal or state permits are known, requiring that
copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
   (D)   Notifying adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse and submitting evidence of the notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (E)   Assuring that within available resources, maintenance is provided
within the altered or relocated portion of any altered watercourse so that the
flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (F)   Not issuing a floodplain development permit for encroachments within
the community encroachment area and/or the FEMA floodway unless the
certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.060 through
152.062 are met;
   (G)   Reviewing and recording the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the reference level (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, in accordance with §
152.061(C);
   (H)   Reviewing and recording the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved nonresidential structures
have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.061(C);
   (I)   Obtaining certifications from a registered professional engineer or
architect in accordance with §
152.061(B) when floodproofing is utilized for a particular nonresidential
structure;
   (J)   Making the interpretation of the exact location of boundaries within
the FEMA special flood hazard area or the community special flood hazard area
when, for example, there appears to be conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions. The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in this chapter. Procedures for changing flood hazard area boundaries
and lines depicted on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps are identified in the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations (44 C.F.R. pts. 59-78);
   (K)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974
being 5 U.S.C. § 552a, as amended;
   (L)   Making on-site inspections of projects;
   (M)   Serving notices of violation, issuing stop-work orders, revoking
permits and taking corrective actions;
   (N)   Maintaining a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment issued from FEMA
when a property owner has received a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). (A LOMA is
typically applied for and approved when the exact location of boundaries of the
FEMA special flood hazard area conflicts with the current, natural topography
information at the site);
   (O)   Determining the required information to be submitted with an
application for approval of an individual floodplain development permit;
   (P)   Reviewing information provided by a property owner or his or her
designated agent for the purpose of making a determination of the total cost of
repairs as it relates to a substantial improvement, including a determination
of whether a series of repairs, reconstructions or improvements constitute one
single alteration such that the total cost of the repairs, reconstructions or
improvements will be the cumulative cost from the first alteration;
   (Q)   Reviewing information provided by a property owner or his or her
designated agent for the purpose of making a determination of whether the
proposed construction activities constitute new construction for purposes of
this chapter;
   (R)   Reviewing and acknowledging FEMA Conditional Letters of Map Revision
and FEMA Letters of Map Revision;
   (S)   Reviewing and approving Community Conditional Letters of Map Revision
and Community Letters of Map Revision;
   (T)   Making on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit;
   (U)   Issuing stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (V)   Revoking floodplain development permits. The Floodplain Administrator
may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the
requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentation made in securing the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in
violation of an applicable state or local law may also be revoked. Revoked
permits may be resubmitted for approval using the requirements of the ordinance
in effect at the time of the original submittal unless they were revoked
because of the intentional submission of incorrect information by the permittee
or his or her agent, or under other circumstances where allowing resubmittal
using the requirement of the ordinance in effect at the time of the original
submittal would not be equitable or consistent with public policy. However,
base flood elevations that govern the elevation to which the structure is built
must comply with the regulations and flood elevations in effect at the time of
application for the building permit;
   (W)   Making periodic inspections. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action; and
   (X)   Providing owners of structures in the floodplain with information
concerning their flood risk, and (for structures with the lowest floor below
the flood protection elevation) inform potential buyers of substantial
improvement restrictions through the recordation of a notice in the property
chain of title or other similar notice.
   (Y)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures.
   (Z)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities.
(1995 Code, § 26-52) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.043 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall each immediately remedy the violation of law in the property he
or she owns or occupies.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner or
occupant of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action,
the Administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than 20 days after the date of the notice;
at which time the owner or occupant shall be entitled to be heard in person or
by counsel and to present floodplain regulations arguments and evidence
pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill or
unauthorized encroachment, as appears appropriate.
      (4)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the Administrator shall find that the building
or development is in violation of the floodplain ordinance, he or she shall
make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the
violation within such period, not less than 60 days, nor more than 180 calendar
days. If the Floodplain Administrator determines there is imminent danger to
public health, safety, or welfare, or other property, he or she may order that
immediate corrective action be taken and if no corrective action is taken as
ordered, the Floodplain Administrator, with the written authorization of the
Town Manager, shall have the authority to enter upon the property to perform
the work necessary to correct the condition and the owner or occupant shall be
responsible for the actual costs incurred.
   (C)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the Town Council by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Administrator and the Clerk within ten days following issuance
of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Administrator
shall be final. The Town Council shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time
and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order. All such decisions of
the Town Council are subject to review by the county superior court as provided
in state law, as the statute may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the Town Council following
an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
the discretion of the court. In addition, the owner or occupant shall be
subject to civil enforcement as described in §
152.999.
(1995 Code, § 26-55) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.044 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
decision, determination or interpretation made by the Floodplain Administrator
pursuant to or regarding these regulations.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide petitions for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (D)   In passing upon such application, the Board of Adjustment shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials allowed to be placed in the floodway as a
result of the variance may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others
during a base flood;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage from
a base flood;
      (3)   Susceptibility to the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage during the base flood;
      (4)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage during a base flood, for the proposed use;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the Town Land Use Plan, County
Floodplain Management Guidance Document, County Flood Hazard Mitigation Plans,
the County Greenway Plan and any other adopted land use plans for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of a community base flood
for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters during a base flood and the effects of wave
action, if applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
(1995 Code, § 26-56) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.045 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the community and/
or FEMA base flood discharge unless the requirements of §
152.061(G) are met.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued prior to approval of a floodplain
development permit.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.046 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING VARIANCE.
   Variances shall only be issued upon:
   (A)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
   (B)   A determination that the difficulty or exceptional hardship resulting
from the application of this chapter would prevent the owner from securing a
reasonable return or making a reasonable use of the property. The fact that the
property could be utilized more profitably or conveniently with the variance
than without the variance shall not be considered as grounds for granting the
variance; and
   (C)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights (unless the requirements of §
152.060(D) are met), additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with other existing local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.047 MISCELLANEOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In addition to consideration of the items in §
152.044(D)(1) if dryland access cannot be obtained, a variance to the
requirement for dryland access may be granted by the Board of Adjustment upon
consideration of the following conditions:
      (1)   A determination that all possible alternatives have been
investigated in an attempt to provide the safest access from a proposed
habitable building to a dry public street; and
      (2)   The existence of a site plan prepared by a licensed land surveyor
or professional engineers indicating that the proposed access to habitable
buildings on the property poses the least risk from flooding.
   (B)   In addition to consideration of the items in §
152.044(D)(1), a variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in areas of special flood hazard, provided that all
of the following criteria apply:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the area of special
flood hazard;
      (3)   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated above the base flood
elevation or is designed to be watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable laws and regulations;
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator has notified the Secretary of the
North Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention
to grant a variance at least 30 days prior to granting the variance; and
      (6)   There will be no storage of materials or tanks which could flood
within the special flood hazard area unless they are contained in a structure
as defined in (B)(3) above.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.048 NOTIFICATION AND RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance from the FEMA base flood elevation is
granted shall be given written notice specifying the difference between the
FEMA base flood elevation and the elevation to which the structure is to be
built and a written statement that the cost of flood insurance will be
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances regarding FEMA minimum standards to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and the state upon request.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.049 APPEAL FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision of the Board of Adjustment
to grant or deny a floodplain development permit shall have 30 days to file an
appeal to the county superior court, as provided in state law.
   (B)   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment related
to any other order, decision, determination or interpretation of these
regulations, including the granting or denial of a variance, shall have 30 days
from the receipt of the Board's decision to file a petition for review in the
nature of certiorari in the county superior court.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.060 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include but are not limited to the
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed, constructed, installed and/or
located at least one foot above the flood protection elevation. These include
but are not limited to HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen
fixtures, electric meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (i.e.,
washers, dryers, refrigerator and the like), hot water heaters, electric wiring
and outlets/switches;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate the infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Construction of new solid waste disposal facilities, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance, in areas of special flood hazard. A structure
or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the
operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be
located in an area of special flood hazard only if the structure or tank is
either elevated above base flood elevation or designed to be watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy.
   (J)   Any new critical facility must be located outside of the 500-year
(0.2%) flood fringe area and elevated at least one foot above the 500-year
(0.2%) base flood elevation or the community base flood elevation, whichever is
greater. The determination of this flood fringe area and elevation will be
provided by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (K)   For the purpose of determining substantial improvement, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make a determination of the total cost of repairs as it
relates to a substantial improvement, including a determination of whether a
series of repairs, reconstructions or improvements constitute one single
alteration such that the total cost of the repairs, reconstructions or
improvements will be the cumulative cost from the first alteration.
   (L)   All development proposals submitted for review and approval in
accordance with the Subdivision Ordinance of the town shall also comply with
the following provisions:
      (1)   Locate and construct public utilities and facilities, such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, to minimize flood damage;
      (2)   Construct all new streets located in a community special flood
hazard area in accordance with the applicable provisions of the subdivision
ordinance;
      (3)   Design and construct adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
      (4)   Take any other appropriate measures needed to minimize flood
damage.
   (M)   When a structure is partially located in a community or FEMA special
flood hazard area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new
construction and substantial improvements.
   (N)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(1995 Code, § 26-66) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.061 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all community and FEMA special flood hazard areas where community and
FEMA base flood elevation data have been provided, as set forth in §§
152.021 and
152.060(J), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, and attached garages
elevation elevated no lower than one foot above the community base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Nonsubstantial improvements notice. Renovations/rehabilitations
costing between 25% and 50% of the market value of the existing building and
the building having the lowest floor below the flood protection elevation, will
require the property owner to record a Notice of Floodplain Improvements
(provided in the Floodplain Regulations Technical Guidance Document) with the
County Register of Deeds office prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure shall
have the lowest flood, including basement, elevated no lower than one foot
above the level of the community base flood elevation, or be floodproofed in
lieu of elevation, provided that all areas of the structure below the required
elevation are watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, using structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this
division are satisfied. This certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
   (C)   New buildings removed from the FEMA special flood hazard area by fill.
When new buildings have been constructed on land that has been removed from the
FEMA special flood hazard area by the placement of fill, they must have the
lowest floor (including basement) elevated at least one foot above the
community base flood elevation.
   (D)   Non-substantial Improvements Notice. Renovations/rehabilitations
costing between 25% and 50% of the market value of an existing building having
the lowest floor below the flood protection elevation, will require the
property owner to record a Notice of Floodplain Improvements (provided in the
Floodplain Regulations Technical Guidance Document) with the Mecklenburg County
Register of Deeds Office prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   (E)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvement of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and
other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings, having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions;
         (d)   Openings must be on different sides of the enclosed area if
possible; and
         (e)   If the building has more than one enclosed area, each must have
openings.
      (2)   Foundation enclosures:
         (a)   Vinyl or sheet metal skirting is not considered an enclosure for
regulatory and flood insurance rating purposes. Therefore this skirting does
not require hydrostatic openings as outlined above.
         (b)   Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status,
is considered an enclosure and requires hydrostatic openings as outlined above
to comply with this chapter.
            1.   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
enter to the living area (stairway or elevator).
            2.   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms, except to enclosed storage areas.
            3.   The enclosed area shall be constructed entirely of flood
resistant materials at least to the flood protection elevation.
   (F)   Dryland access. Access to habitable buildings during a flood event is
extremely hazardous. Dryland access must be provided to new or substantially
improved habitable buildings according to the following criteria.
      (1)   Dryland access is required if any portion of either the habitable
building or vehicular access route, connecting the habitable building to a
public street, is within the floodplain. If dryland access cannot be obtained,
a variance to the requirement for dryland access may be granted by the Board of
Adjustment. Plans and details for the dryland access must be submitted by a
registered professional floodplain regulations engineer or surveyor and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The following are exempt from the dryland access requirement.
         (a)   Substantial improvement to an existing habitable building where
the property does not have any access to a dry public street.
         (b)   Construction of a new habitable building where both the
habitable building and the access route connecting it to a public street are
located entirely outside the community encroachment area and where the property
does not have any access to a dry public street. Under this exemption, access
from the habitable building to the public street must:
            1.   Connect to the highest point of the public street adjacent to
the property;
            2.   Be constructed of gravel, pavement or concrete and be at least
12 feet wide; and
            3.   Be constructed entirely at or above the elevation of highest
point of the public street adjacent to the property.
   (G)   FEMA floodway and community encroachment area. The FEMA floodway and
the community encroachment area are very hazardous areas due to the velocity of
flood waters which carry debris and potential projectiles and have erosion
potential. The following provisions shall apply within these areas.
      (1)   Community encroachment area.
         (a)   No encroachments, requiring an individual floodplain development
permit, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other
development shall be permitted within the community encroachment area unless it
has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment would not
result in increased flood heights of greater than 0.10 foot during the
occurrence of a community base flood. The certification and associated
technical data by a registered engineer shall be approved by the Floodplain
Administrator. Any change which would cause a rise of more than 0.10 foot in
the community base flood elevation will require notification of impacted
property owners, and a Community Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CoCLOMR)
from the Floodplain Administrator. If approved and constructed, as-built plans
must be submitted and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a Community
Letter of Map Revision (CoLOMR) issued. A certificate of occupancy will not be
issued without the above stated Community Letter of Map Revision.
         (b)   Projects impacting existing habitable buildings that increase
the community base flood elevation more than 0.00 feet will not be allowed
without a variance.
      (2)   FEMA floodway. No encroachments requiring an individual floodplain
development permit, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements
and other development shall be permitted within the FEMA floodway unless it has
been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice that the encroachment would not
result in any (0.00 feet) increase in the FEMA base flood elevations during the
occurrence of a FEMA base flood and no increase in the community base flood
elevations during the occurrence of the community base flood. Such analysis
performed by a registered professional engineer shall be approved by the
Floodplain Administrator. Any change which would cause a rise in the FEMA base
flood elevation or an increase in the FEMA floodway width during the occurrence
of the FEMA base flood will require notification of impacted property owners,
and a Conditional Letter of Map Revision from FEMA. If approved and
constructed, as-built plans must be submitted by the property owner and
approved by FEMA and a Letter of Map Revision issued. A certificate of
occupancy will not be issued without the above stated Conditional Letter of Map
Revision.
         (a)   Any change which would cause a rise in the community base flood
elevation or an increase in the width of the community encroachment area during
the occurrence of the community base flood will require notification of
impacted property owners, and a Community Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CoCLOMR).
         (b)   Projects which cause a rise of greater than 0.00 feet in the
FEMA base flood elevation and impact an existing habitable building will not be
allowed.
   (H)   Manufactured homes. No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement
manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivisions, provided the anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.060(A) are met.
   (I)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to non-compliant areas of pre-FIRM
structures whereas the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or add additional nonconforming
enclosed area to the structure.
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards of §
152.061.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure shall require only the addition to comply with the standards
of §
152.061.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures whereas the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure:
         (a)   Are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   Are a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards of §
152.061.
         (c)   Customary maintenance and/or repair are not considered additions
or improvements.
   (J)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replaced manufactured homes must be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated at
least one foot above the community base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Manufactured homes that are to be placed or
substantially improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision that are not subject to the provisions of §
152.061(C) must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home
is elevated at least one foot above community base flood elevation, and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement in
accordance with the Regulations for Mobile Homes and Modular Housing adopted by
the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when
the elevation would be met by raising the chassis at least 36 inches or less
above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength. When the
elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      (3)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivision located within the area of special flood
hazard. This plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain
Administrator and the local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (4)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
152.061(D).
   (K)   Recreational vehicles. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick-
disconnection type utilities and security devices, and has no permanent
attached additions. Recreation vehicles placed on sites shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the requirements of §§
152.042,
152.061 and
152.062.
   (L)   Temporary structures. Prior to issuance of a floodplain development
permit for a temporary structure the following requirements must be met:
      (1)   All applicants must submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan
for removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane or flash flood
notification. The plan must include the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the structure;
         (b)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed. The time specified may not exceed three months, and is renewable up to
one year;
         (c)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to insure the availability of removal equipment when needed;
         (d)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the floodplain to which the temporary structure will be removed; and
         (e)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. The time specified may not exceed three months, and is renewable up
to one year.
      (2)   The above information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval.
   (M)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like), are to be placed in the floodplain, the following
criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have a low flood damage
potential;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
152.061(A);
      (4)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated in accordance with §
152.061(C);
      (5)   Accessory structures shall have hydrostatic openings per §
152.061(D);
      (6)   Accessory structures under 150 square feet do not require an
elevation or floodproofing certificate; and
      (7)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
   (N)   Parking spaces. The lowest elevation of any parking space required for
new or substantially improved non-single-family habitable buildings must be no
more than 0.5 feet below the Community Base Flood Elevation.
   (O)   Levees. Levees will be treated as development in the floodplain and
are subject to all applicable sections of this chapter.
      (1)   A levee shall not be constructed solely to protect vacant property
from flooding.
      (2)   With the exception of a levee that protects a building or feature
that must be located in the vicinity of a stream to be functional such as a
stream monitor, water/sewer facility or other uses approved by the Floodplain
Administrator, levees require the approval of the Director of Mecklenburg
County Storm Water Services, or his or her designee, regardless of their
location within the community special flood hazard area (entire floodplain).
      (3)   With the exception of a levee that protects a building or feature
that must be located in the vicinity of a stream to be functional such as a
stream monitor, water/sewer facility or other uses approved by the Floodplain
Administrator, the owner of the levee and the Director of Mecklenburg County
Storm Water Services, or his or her designee, shall conduct an open house forum
prior to consideration of approval. The open house forum initiates a 30-day
comment period for the Director or his or her designee to receive comments from
the public.
      (4)   Owners of land adjacent to a proposed levee shall be notified of
the open house forum and be provided an opportunity to submit written comments
during the 30-day comment period. Notification is to occur through regular
mail, as well as a sign being placed at a conspicuous place at the creek and
along the public and private road(s) of the properties that would be protected
by the proposed levee.
      (5)   After the end of the 30-day comment period, but no more than 60
days from the end of the comment period, the Director shall approve or
disapprove the application or request more information from the owner of the
levee. If the Director determines that the additional information is
sufficiently significant, the Director may offer an additional 30-day comment
period to all parties involved. Consistent with §
152.049, the Director's decision may be appealed to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
      (6)   Regardless of whether the proposed levee would meet FEMA
certification requirements, floodplain lines and flood elevations will not be
modified based on the location, performance or any other aspects of the levee.
      (7)   An instrument must be recorded in the chain of title for all
parcels protected by a levee indicating the level of protection provided by the
levee and the maintenance requirements as described in (8)(g) below.
      (8)   Levee permitting requirements. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for construction of a proposed levee, the
applicant must submit the following information in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   Plans and/or specifications showing the location of the proposed
levee is as far away from the adjacent creek as reasonably possible;
         (b)   Copy of the written approval for the levee received from the
Director of County Storm Water Services;
         (c)   Verification of notification to owners of land adjacent to the
proposed levee (those within 500 feet of the property lines of the parcel on
which the proposed levee is to be located or within a distance equal to the
length of the proposed levee, whichever is greater). Notification is also to
include properties that are in the community special flood hazard area and
within the hydraulic modeling limits as described below;
         (d)   Copies of all written comments received from property owners
referenced above;
         (e)   Hydrologic and hydraulic flood models showing the proposed
conditions if the levee is proposed to be located within the community
encroachment area and:
            1.   Show no increase in water surface elevations on any existing
habitable building using the current and future discharges for the ten, 25, 50,
100-year frequency flows;
            2.   Account for all feasible future levees in the area as deemed
appropriate by the Floodplain Administrator;
         (f)   A copy of the contract with the entity responsible for
construction of the proposed levee; and
         (g)   A copy of the maintenance plan for the levee which has been
certified by a state professional engineer, which shall include a description
of the process by which the levee will be inspected annually and provide for
updated plans to be provided annually to property owners and residents intended
to benefit from the levee.
         (h)   Levees constructed on an individual single family residential
parcel are exempt from the requirements of §
152.061(M)(2)-(5), (7).
(1995 Code, § 26-67) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.062 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH DRAINAGE AREAS OF ONE SQUARE MILE OR
GREATER NOT HAVING ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   All streams in the town and the county with drainage areas of one square
mile or greater have established community and FEMA base flood elevations and
community encroachment areas and FEMA floodways.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 152.075 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOODWAY
REGULATIONS.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Floodplain Regulations enacted June 25, 1987, as amended, and it is not
the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce without
interruption those existing provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that
have accrued there under are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of
this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or
pending. All provisions of the Floodplain Regulations of Town of Pineville
enacted on June 25, 1987, as amended, which are not reenacted herein, are
repealed.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.076 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator before the time of passage of this Floodplain Regulation chapter;
provided, however, that when construction is not begun under the outstanding
permit within a period of two years subsequent to passage of this chapter or
any revision thereto, the permit shall become void and construction or use
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any application(s) for a floodplain development permit received prior
to the effective date of these Floodplain Regulations shall be reviewed under
the regulations in effect at the time of the initial application. Any
incomplete application(s) for a floodplain development permit will be valid
only for 90 days after the Floodplain Administrator has requested additional
information from the applicant or his or her agent. If 90 days after the owner
or his or her agent has received the request for additional information the
applicant has failed to submit reasonably complete information that
demonstrates a good-faith effort to provide all the additional information
requested, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator, the application will
become void. Any subsequent submittals will be considered as new applications
and reviewed under the regulations in effect on the date the subsequent
submittal is received by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.077 EXPIRATION OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS ISSUED AFTER ADOPTION OF
THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   Individual floodplain development permits issued pursuant to this
chapter expire two years after the date of issuance unless the work has
commenced within two years after the date of issuance, or the issuance of the
permit is legally challenged, in which case the permit is valid for two years
after the challenge has been resolved.
   (B)   Any incomplete application(s) for an individual floodplain development
permit will be valid only for 90 days after the Floodplain Administrator has
requested additional information from the applicant or his or her agent. If, 90
days after the owner or his or her agent has received the request for
additional information, the applicant has failed to submit reasonably complete
information that demonstrates a good-faith effort to provide all the additional
information requested, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator, the
application will become void. Any subsequent submittals will be considered as
new applications and reviewed under the regulations in effect on the date the
subsequent submittal is received by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013; Ord. 2014-00,
passed 2-11-2014)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of floodplain development permits, variances or
special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than
30 days. Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town or the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation, including but not limited to seeking injunctive
relief, orders of abatement or other similar equitable relief.
(1995 Code, § 26-37) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-
12-2013; Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
APPENDIX A: FLOOD MAP AREAS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2479b1c1557cf48e5340a6329a0e142b320269b9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2009-03, Attachment B, passed 2-10-2009; Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-12-2013;
Ord. 2014-00, passed 2-11-2014)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of zoning and subdivision regulations
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   The zoning and subdivision regulations of the town, as amended, are
published separately. Copies are available through town offices.
(1995 Code, § 2-1)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISES
         
III.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
IV.   HISTORIC LANDMARKS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        1-7-1997    Annexing four parcels of land, being Tax Parcel Nos. 205-
                     041-10, 205-041-11, 205-041-14, and 205-041-18
                     Annexing 6.229 acres, including 0.229 acre within the
                     right-of-way of U.S. Highway 521 as shown on the survey of
-        8-12-1997   James P. Cameron (1996), beginning at an existing iron in
                     the westerly right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 521, being
                     the deed from Pineville Properties Limited Partnership to
                     W.P. Mohle and Judy C. Mohle
                     Annexing 2.848 acres, as shown on a survey of S. Neal
                     Broome (1984), beginning at a point in the centerline of
                     Sam Meeks Road (S.R. 3638); and 7.566 acre tract,
                     beginning at the point of intersection of the centerlines
-        8-12-1997   of U.S. Highway 521 and Dorman Road (S.R. 3637), and the
                     1.423 acre tract lying within the rights-of-way of U.S.
                     Highway 521, Dorman Road and Sam Meeks Road, as shown on
                     the plat of boundary survey by Bobby J. Rape (1975), being
                     the deed from Charles C. Ervin Company to South Charlotte
                     Baptist Church, Inc.
                     Annexing 171.732 acres, more or less, as shown on an
-        2-12-2002   annexation map by Carolina Surveyors, Inc, (2001),
                     beginning at a point in the center of Downs Road and
                     running with the line of the existing town limits
                     Annexing 43.7978 acres, as shown in the survey for Squires
                     Homes (1999) and the contiguous 0.4969 acre parcel within
-        7-9-2002    the right-of-way of Sam Meeks Road shown on the same
                     survey, beginning at a new iron road in the northerly
                     right-of-way margin of Sam Meeks Road
-        8-6-2002    Annexing territory described in Exhibit A attached to the
                     annexing ordinance
                     Annexing two tracts: 40.725 acres, beginning at an iron in
                     or near the centerline of Boatright Road and in the line
                     of property now or formerly owned by W.A. Yandell, being
-        6-10-2003   property conveyed from Charles W. Baker and Reba M. Baker
                     to H.D. Albright on April 18, 1963; and 0.625 acre,
                     beginning at an iron in or near the centerline of Lakeview
                     Road, being property conveyed from Eugene M. Darnell and
                     Mary E. Darnell to H.D. Albright on April 2, 1963
                     Annexing territory to extend town limits to include the
                     entire territory located in the town's sphere of influence
HB1005   3-31-2005   on January 1, 2005, excepting and excluding that area
                     bounded by the easterly margin of the right-of-way of
                     Lancaster Highway on the east and McAlpine Creek on the
                     north
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     10-23- Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner Entertainment–Advance/
17   2001   Newhouse Partnership for construction, operation and maintenance of a cable
            television system, for a period of 15 years
           
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving an Amendment Agreement No. 2 to the Project
2005-03  5-10-2005   Power Sales Agreement with North Carolina Municipal Power
                     Agency No. 1, dated May 1, 1978, providing power from the
                     Catawba Project
                     Amendment Agreement No. 2 to Project Power Sales
2005-04  5-10-2005   Agreement, Catawba Nuclear Project, approved in Ord. 2005-
                     03
                     Approving the power purchase agreement by and between
2023-02  8-28-2023   North Carolina Municipal Power Agency Number 1 and Central
                     Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., and approving an
                     amendment to the project power sales agreement
                    
 
TABLE IV: HISTORIC LANDMARKS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Designating the "Oakley House," listed under Tax Parcel
-        6-10-2003   No. 22106410 as of May 1, 2003 and located at 129 Main
                     Street, as a Historic Landmark
                     Designating the "Samuel Younts House," listed under Tax
-        12-9-2003   Parcel No. 205-014-05 as of November 1, 2003 and located
                     at 136 Main Street, as a Historic Landmark
                     Designating the "Pineville Commercial Block," listed under
                     Tax Parcel Nos. 20501301, 20501302, 20501303, 20501304,
2007-06  11-13-2007  20501305, 20501306, 20501307, 20501308, 20501309, and
                     20501310 as of September 1, 2007 and located at 312-330
                     Main Street, as a Historic Landmark
2010-02  12-14-2010  Amending the "Pineville Commercial Block" Tax Parcel Nos.
                     20501301 and 20501308
                     Designating the homes and properties on Park Avenue,
                     listed under Tax Parcel Nos. 22107109, 22107110, 22107111,
2011-02  11-15-2011  22107112, 22107113, 22107114, 22107115, 22107116,
                     22107117, 22107201, 22107202, 22107203, 22107204,
                     22107205, 22107206, 22107207, 22107208, and 22107209 as of
                     July 1, 2011 as a Historic Landmark
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                Code Section
1-593                       10.05
14-1 et seq.                Ch. 130
                            72.99,
                            74.08,
                            75.99,
14-4                        91.99,
                            94.054,
                            130.99,
                            151.043,
                            151.999
14-4(a)                     10.99
14-4(b)                     70.999
14-54(c)                    93.03
14-177                      114.05
14-204                      114.05
14-269                      93.03
14-288.1 et seq.            33.01
14-360                      90.031
14-361                      90.031
14-361.1                    90.031
14-362                      90.031
14-363                      90.031
14-415.23                   93.03
Ch. 18B                     Ch. 116,
                            116.03
18B-200                     116.03
18B-300                     116.03
18B-300(c)                  116.01
18B-300.1                   116.03
18B-301                     116.03
18B-1001                    116.02
18B-1001(1)                 116.03
18B-1001(3)                 116.03
18B-1001(5)                 116.03
18B-1001(10)                116.03
18B-1001(16)                116.03
18B-1001.5                  116.03
18B-1010                    116.03
18B-1100(5)                 116.03
Ch. 19A                     Ch. 90,
                            90.031
19A-20 et seq.              90.042
                            Ch. 70,
Ch. 20                      73.01,
                            73.03
20-4.01                     70.010,
                            130.02
20-16(c)                    70.999
20-116                      70.071,
                            71.99
20-138.1 et seq.            Ch. 71
20-140.2                    71.22
20-141                      71.50
20-141(f)                   71.51
20-141(e1)                  71.52
20-145                      71.53
20-146(a)                   71.01
20-147                      71.02
20-148                      71.03
20-149                      71.05
20-150                      71.05,
                            71.07
20-150.1                    71.06
20-152                      71.21
20-153                      71.10
20-154                      71.11
20-155                      71.08
20-156                      71.09
20-157(a)                   71.13
20 157(b)                   71.14
20-157(d)                   71.15
                            Ch. 70,
20-158                      70.067,
                            70.086,
                            70.087
20-158.1                    Ch. 70,
                            70.068
20-160                      70.072
20-162                      Ch. 72,
                            72.04
20-163                      72.03
20-168                      70.005
20-169                      Ch. 70,
                            70.069
20-170                      70.008
20-171                      70.006
20-172 et seq.              Ch. 74
20-173                      74.02
                            74.03,
20-174                      74.04,
                            74.07
20-175                      74.05
20-175.2                    74.06
20-175.3                    74.06
20-219.11(c)                91.24
20-279.21                   73.01
20-356 et seq.              94.002
20-368                      94.002
44A-1 et seq.               91.26
66-68 et seq.               114.03
Ch. 67                      Ch. 90
72-50                       110.076
74D-1 et seq.               Ch. 96
74D-11(c)                   Ch. 96
75A-9                       91.53
78A-2(11)                   110.076
87-10                       110.076
Ch. 90, Art. 36             117.03
90-86                       130.02
90-86 et seq.               130.02
Ch. 93B                     110.040
97-1 et seq.                32.43
Ch. 105                     35.03,
                            35.32
                            35.03,
Ch. 105, Art. 5             35.09,
                            35.39
Ch. 105, Art. 9, Subch. 1   35.09
                            35.03,
Ch. 105, Art. 9, Subch. I   35.09,
                            35.32,
                            35.39
105-1 et seq.               110.076
105-33 et seq.              Ch. 110
105-109                     110.072
105-163.010                 35.31
105-164.4(a)(2)             35.31
105-236 to 105-236.1        35.09
105-241.7                   35.11,
                            35.40
105-242                     35.39
105-349                     Ch. 35
105-368                     35.39,
                            110.073
106-700                     90.056
121-5                       110.049,
                            110.071
Ch. 130A                    151.006
Ch. 130A, Art. 9            152.019
130A-184 et seq.            90.077
130A-185                    90.003
130A-290(a)(6)              152.019
130A-290(a)(35)             152.019
130A-290(a)(36)             152.019
132-1                       35.34
136-141 et seq.             91.17
136-143                     91.17
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6    152.015
143-143.15                  152.061
143-145(7)                  151.006
153A-123(d)                 151.999
153A-123(e)                 151.999
159-7                       Ch. 34
159-7 et seq.               34.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2    Charter, 5-1
Ch. 160A, Art. 10           151.042
Ch. 160A, Art. 12           34.16
160A-22                     Charter, Ch. II, Art. 1
160A-66                     30.01
160A-67                     30.30
160A-69                     30.15
160A-101                    Charter, 3-1
160A-102                    Charter, 3-1
160A-164                    31.01
160A-171 et seq.            31.17
160A-173                    31.16
                            10.99,
160A-175                    74.08,
                            94.054,
                            130.99
160A-175(d)                 110.073
160A-175(g)                 93.99,
                            94.999
                            Ch. 95,
160A-178                    Ch. 111,
                            Ch. 113
160A-181                    Ch. 115
160A-182                    Ch. 90,
                            90.031
160A-184                    Ch. 90,
                            91.50
160A-187                    Ch. 90
                            Ch. 91,
160A-193                    91.03–
                            91.05
160A-194                    Ch. 110
160A-205.4                  116.03
160A-205.4 et seq.          116.03
                            35.09,
160A-207                    110.072,
                            110.073
160A-208.1                  35.05
160A-211                    35.02,
                            Ch. 110
160A-212                    90.055
160A-215.1                  35.12
160A-215.2                  35.41
160A-266(c)                 34.18,
                            34.19
160A-281 through 160A-289   Ch. 32
160A-282(a), (b)            32.43
160A-285                    32.42
160A-291                    92.01
160A-291 through 160A-294   Ch. 92
160A-296 et seq.            Ch. 94
160A-300 et seq.            Ch. 70
160A-301                    Ch. 72
160A-303                    91.15,
                            91.31
160A-303.1                  Ch. 51
                            Ch. 91,
160A-303.2                  91.15,
                            91.31
160A-312                    Ch. 52,
                            Ch. 113
160A-314                    Ch. 52
160A-314.1                  Ch. 51
160A-460 et seq.            90.002
160D-1-2                    152.015
                            32.15,
160D-1-9(d)                 32.17,
                            152.015
160D-102                    151.001,
                            152.015
160D-107                    152.015
160D-108                    152.015
160D-108(d)                 152.015
160D-108.1                  152.015
160D-109                    152.015
160D-109(c)                 152.015
160D-301                    32.01
                            32.15,
160D-302                    32.17,
                            152.015
160D-305                    151.001,
                            151.039
160D-307                    32.02
160D-402(b)                 Ch. 150
160D-402(b) through (d)     152.015
160D-403                    152.015
160D-403(b)                 32.15,
                            32.17
160D-403(b) through (g)     152.015
160D-404(c)                 Ch. 150,
                            152.015
                            32.15,
160D-405                    32.17,
                            152.015
                            32.15,
160D-406                    32.17,
                            152.015
160D-502                    152.015
160D-601                    152.015
160D-603                    152.015
160D-604                    152.015
160D-604(d)                 152.015
160D-605(a), (b)            152.015
160D-701 through 160D-706   152.015
160D-702                    32.15,
                            32.17
160D-705                    32.15,
                            32.17
160D-903                    152.015
160D-905                    152.015
160D-908 through 160D-910   152.015
160D-913                    152.015
160D-915                    152.015
160D-916                    152.015
160D-921 through 160D-925   152.015
160D-1101                   151.001
160D-1102                   Ch. 150,
                            151.001
160D-1102 through 160D-1130 152.015
160D-1104                   Ch. 150
160D-1119 through 160D-1122 151.056
160D-1201 through 160D-1206 151.001
160D-1208 through 160D-1212 151.001
                            151.039,
160D-1203                   151.041,
                            151.042
160D-1206                   151.039
160D-1207                   152.015
160D-1208                   151.039
160D-1311 through 160D-1315 152.015
160D-1320                   152.015
160D-1402                   152.015
160D-1403.1                 152.015
160D-1403.2                 152.015
                            32.15,
160D-1405                   32.17,
                            152.015
163-284                     30.02
163-292                     Charter, 4-1
164-7                       10.14
166A-7 et seq.              Ch. 33
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code Section 2011 Code Section
1995 Code Section 2011 Code Section
1-1               10.01
1-2               10.05
1-5               10.19
1-6               10.20
1-7               10.21
1-11              10.22
2-1               153.01
2-2               30.02
2-26              30.01
2-27              30.15
2-28              30.30
2-29              30.31
2-30              30.16
2-51              31.01
2-52              31.02
2-61              31.15
2-71              31.16
2-81              31.17
2-111             32.15
2-112             32.16
2-113             32.17
2-126             32.01
2-127             32.02
2-141             32.30
2-166             34.01
2-176             34.15
2-177             34.16
2-178             34.17
2-179             34.18
4-1               95.01
4-2               95.02
4-3               95.03
4-4               95.04
4-5               95.05
4-6               95.06
4-7               95.07
4-8               95.08
4-9               95.09
4-31              95.30
4-32              95.31
4-33              95.32
4-34              95.33
4-35              95.34
6-1               116.01
8-1               115.01
10-1              90.001
10-2              90.002
10-3              90.003
10-26             90.015
10-27             90.016
10-28             90.017
10-30             90.018
10-51             90.030
10-52             90.031
10-53             90.032
10-54             90.033
10-55             90.055
10-57             90.035
10-58             90.072
10-61             90.036
10-62             90.034
10-63             90.037
10-64             90.038
10-65             90.039
10-66             90.040
10-67             90.074
10-68             90.041
10-69             90.078
10-70             90.042
10-95             90.056
10-97             90.057
10-98             90.059
10-117            90.075
10-118            90.077
10-119            90.076
10-120            90.079
10-121            90.071
12-1              150.01
12-2              150.02
12-3              150.03
12-26             150.15
12-46             150.30
12-47             150.31
12-48             150.32
12-49             150.33
12-50             150.34
14-1              110.001
14-16             110.015
14-17             110.016
14-18             110.017
14-19             110.018
14-20             110.019
14-21             110.020
14-22             110.021
14-23             110.022
14-24             110.023
14-25             110.024
14-26             110.025
14-31             110.040
14-32             110.041
14-33             110.042
14-34             110.043
14-35             110.044
14-36             110.045
14-37             110.046
14-38             110.047
14-39             110.048
14-40             110.049
14-41             110.050
14-46             110.065
14-47             110.066
14-48             110.067
14-49             110.068
14-50             110.069
14-51             110.070
14-52             110.071
14-53             110.072
14-54             110.073
14-55             110.074
14-56             110.075,
                  110.076
14-66             111.01
14-67             111.02
14-82             111.15
14-83             111.16
14-84             111.17
14-85             111.18
14-86             111.19
14-87             111.20
14-88             111.21
14-111            112.01,
                  112.99
14-112            112.02
16-1              113.01
16-2              113.02
16-3              113.03
16-4              113.04
16-5              113.05
16-6              113.06
16-7              113.07
16-8              113.08
16-9              113.09
16-10             113.10
16-11             113.11
16-12             113.12
16-13             113.13
20-1              33.01,
                  33.05
20-2              33.02
20-3              33.03
20-4              33.04
22-26             91.01
22-27             91.02
22-28             91.03
22-29             91.05
22-30             91.06
22-41             91.15
22-42             91.16
22-43             91.17
22-44             91.18
22-45             91.19
22-46             91.20
22-47             91.21
22-48             91.22
22-49             91.23
22-50             91.24
22-51             91.25
22-52             91.26
22-53             91.27
22-54             91.28
22-55             91.29
22-76             91.50
22-77             91.51
22-78             91.99
22-79             91.53
22-80             91.54
24-1              92.01
24-2              92.02
24-26             92.15
24-27             92.16
24-51             92.30
24-52             92.31
26-26             152.015
26-27             152.016
26-28             152.017
26-29             152.018
26-30             152.019
26-31             152.020
26-32             152.021
26-33             152.023
26-34             152.024
26-35             152.025
26-36             152.026
26-37             152.999
26-51             152.040
26-52             152.042
26-55             152.043
26-56             152.044
26-66             152.060
26-67             152.061
30-26             32.40
30-27             32.41
30-28             32.42
30-51             96.01
30-52             96.02
30-53             96.03
30-54             96.04
30-55             96.05
30-56             96.06
30-57             96.07
32-1              130.01
32-2              130.02
32-3              130.03
32-26             130.15
32-27             130.16
32-28             130.17
32-29             130.18
32-30             130.19
32-31             130.20
32-32             130.21
32-33             130.22
32-34             130.23
32-35             130.24
32-36             130.25
34-1              93.01
34-2              93.02
34-3              93.03
34-4              93.04
34-5              93.05
34-6              93.06
36-1              51.01
36-2              51.02
36-3              51.03
38-1              94.001
38-2              94.002
38-3              94.003
38-5              94.004
38-6              94.005
38-7              94.006
38-31             94.015
38-32             94.016
38-33             94.017
38-34             94.018
38-56             94.030
38-57             94.031
38-58             94.032
38-59             94.033
38-81             94.042
38-82             94.044
38-85             94.999
38-106            94.060
38-107            94.061
38-108            94.062
38-109            94.063
38-110            94.064
38-111            94.065
38-112            94.066
38-113            94.067
38-114            94.068
38-115            94.069
38-116            94.070
38-117            94.071
40-1              70.001
40-2              70.010
40-3              70.002
40-4              70.003
40-5              70.004
40-6              70.005
40-7              70.006
40-8              70.007
40-9              70.025
40-10             70.026
40-11             70.027
40-12             70.028
40-13             70.029
40-14             70.030
40-15             70.045
40-16             70.046
40-17             70.008
40-18             70.009
40-19             70.031
40-41             70.060
40-42             70.061
40-43             70.062
40-44             70.063
40-45             70.064
40-46             70.065
40-47             70.066
40-48             70.067
40-49             70.068
40-50             70.069
40-51             70.070
40-52             70.071
40-53             70.072
40-54             70.073
40-76             71.01
40-77             71.02
40-78             71.03
40-79             71.04
40-80             71.05
40-81             71.06
40-82             71.07
40-83             71.08
40-84             71.09
40-85             71.10
40-86             71.11
40-87             71.12
40-88             71.13
40-89             71.14
40-90             71.15
40-91             71.16
40-92             71.17
40-93             71.18
40-94             71.19
40-95             71.20
40-96             71.21
40-97             71.22
40-97             71.23
40-99             71.24
40-111            71.50
40-112            71.51
40-113            71.52
40-114            71.53
40-136            72.01
40-137            72.02
40-138            72.03
40-139            72.04
40-140            72.05
40-141            72.06
40-142            72.07
40-143            72.08
40-144            72.09
40-145            72.10
40-146            72.11
40-147            72.12
40-148            72.13
40-149            72.14
40-150            72.15
40-151            72.16
40-152            72.17
40-153            72.18
40-154            72.19
40-155            72.20
40-156            72.99
40-196            74.01
40-197            74.02
40-198            74.03
40-199            74.04
40-200            74.05
40-201            74.06
40-202            74.07
40-228            70.100
42-1              52.01
42-2              52.02
42-3              52.03
42-4              52.04
42-5              52.05
42-6              52.06
42-7              52.07
42-8              52.08
42-9              52.09
42-10             52.10
42-11             52.11
42-12             52.12
42-13             52.13
42-14             52.14
42-36             52.30
42-37             52.31
42-38             52.32
42-39             52.33
42-40             52.34
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      3-9-2004    32.01
–      6-8-2004    50.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     110.015–
                     110.025,
                     110.040–
–      5-30-1995   110.050,
                     110.065–
                     110.073,
                     110.075,
                     110.076
–      5-30-1995   112.01,
                     112.99
3        12-5-1995   32.30
4        12-19-1995  130.04
5        3-19-1996   111.02
7        9-10-1996   111.02
–      1-7-1997    TSO I
6        5-20-1997   114.01–
                     114.06
–      8-12-1997   TSO I
–      8-12-1997   TSO I
8        2-10-1998   34.15–
                     34.19
                     Charter, 1-1,
                     Art. 1,
                     3-1 –
-        4-13-1999   3-4,
                     4-1,
                     5-1,
                     6-1 –
                     6-3
9        4-13-1999   74.08
10       4-13-1999   91.52,
                     91.99
12       1-11-2000   72.04
                     91.01–
                     91.03,
                     91.05,
13       2-8-2000    91.06,
                     91.15–
                     91.31,
                     91.99
                     70.085–
14       9-12-2000   70.088,
                     70.999
15       9-12-2000   91.55,
                     91.99
                     91.01–
16       10-10-2000  91.03,
                     91.05,
                     91.06
17       10-23-2001  TSO II
–      2-12-2002   TSO I
–      7-9-2002    TSO I
–      8-6-2002    TSO I
–      6-10-2003   TSO I
–      6-10-2003   TSO IV
–      12-9-2003   TSO IV
2004-01  6-8-2004    32.43
2004-02  9-14-2004   72.04
2004-03  9-14-2004   35.01–
                     35.12
2004-04  10-12-2004  72.99
2004-05  10-12-2004  94.049,
                     94.999
2004-06  10-12-2004  93.07,
                     93.99
                     90.001–
                     90.003,
                     90.015–
                     90.018,
2005-02  - -2005     90.030–
                     90.042,
                     90.055–
                     90.059,
                     90.070–
                     90.079
2005-03  5-10-2005   TSO III
2005-04  5-10-2005   TSO III
2005-06  5-9-2006    110.076
                     71.35–
2006-01  11-14-2006  71.39,
                     71.99
2007-02  6-12-2007   72.04
2007-03  8-14-2007   91.02–
                     91.06
2007-05  8-14-2007   34.15–
                     34.19
                     130.35–
2007-04  9-11-2007   130.40,
                     130.99
2007-06  11-13-2007  TSO IV
2008-01  9-9-2008    94.040–
                     94.057
                     151.001–
                     151.006,
                     151.015–
                     151.022,
                     151.035–
2008-02  5-13-2008   151.044,
                     151.055,
                     151.056,
                     151.085–
                     151.091,
                     151.999
                     73.01–
2008-04  9-9-2008    73.04,
                     73.99,
                     Ch. 73 Appx A
2009-01  1-13-2009   92.17
                     152.001,
                     152.002,
                     152.015–
                     152.026,
                     152.040–
2009-03  2-10-2009   152.049,
                     152.060–
                     152.062,
                     152.075–
                     152.077,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 Appx A
2009-02  3-10-2009   110.076
2009-04  4-14-2009   35.30–
                     35.42
2009-06  10-13-2009  72.21
2010-02  12-14-2010  TSO IV
2011-01  4-12-2011   Adopting Ordinance
2011-02  11-15-2011  TSO IV
2011-03  11-15-2011  110.024,
                     Ch. 110 Appx A
2011-04  11-15-2011  93.03,
                     93.99
                     130.35 –
2012-01  3-13-2012   130.40,
                     130.99
2012-02  3-13-2012   130.05 –
                     130.10
2012-03  6-12-2012   Ch. 110 Appx A
2012-04  10-9-2012   90.056,
                     90.057
2012-05  11-13-2012  Ch. 110 Appx A
                     152.001,
                     152.002,
                     152.015 –
                     152.026,
                     152.040 –
2013-02  3-12-2013   152.049,
                     152.060 –
                     152.062,
                     152.075 –
                     152.077,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 Appx A
2013-03  4-9-2013    91.02
2013-04  11-12-2013  93.03,
                     93.99
                     152.001,
                     152.002,
                     152.015 –
                     152.026,
                     152.040 –
2014-00  2-11-2014   152.049,
                     152.060 –
                     152.062,
                     152.075 –
                     152.077,
                     152.999,
                     Ch. 152 Appx A
                     71.50 –
2014-02  4-8-2014    71.53,
                     71.99
2014-03  10-14-2014  Charter, 5-1
2015-01  2-10-2015   130.03
2015-02  2-10-2015   Charter, 3-3
2015-03  3-10-2015   117.01-
                     117.05
                     130.50,
2015-04  3-10-2015   130.51,
                     130.99
2015-05  11-12-2015  90.035,
                     90.040
2017-01  3-14-2017   93.02
2017-02  8-8-2017    116.02
2018-01  6-12-2018   72.04
2019-01  5-14-2019   72.14
2019-02  8-26-2019   Charter, 3-1,
                     3-2
                     51.03 -
2019-03  4-9-2019    51.15,
                     51.99
2019-04  10-8-2019   10.99
2020-01  5-12-2020   94.047
                     32.17,
                     151.001,
                     151.039,
–      4-13-2021   151.041,
                     151.042,
                     151.056,
                     152.015
2021-01  10-14-2021  72.99
2021-02  10-14-2021  10.12
2021-03  10-14-2021  72.19
2022-01  4-12-2022   72.99
2022-02  4-12-2022   91.99
2022-03  4-12-2022   130.99
2022-04  11-8-2022   130.03
                     75.01-
                     75.06,
2023-01  5-9-2023    75.20-
                     75.22,
                     75.99
2023-02  8-28-2023   TSO III
2023-03  10-10-2023  116.03
                     74.08,
2023-04  11-14-2023  130.04,
                     130.99
                    
 
