PINEBLUFF, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. passed 9-18-2006
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
   
1.1.   Incorporation
   
1.2.   Powers
   
1.3.   Corporate Limits
Article II. Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
2.1.   Governing Body
   
2.2.   Board of Commissioners; Composition; Terms of Office
   
2.3.   Election of the Mayor; Term of Office; Duties
   
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
Article III. Municipal Elections
   
3.1.   Regular Municipal Elections
   
3.2.   Election of the Board of Commissioners; Election of Mayor
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1.   Form of Government
   
4.2.   Town Attorney
   
4.3.   Town Clerk
   
4.4.   Town Tax Collector
   
4.5.   Town Treasurer
   
4.6.   Consolidation of Functions
   
4.7.   Other Administrative Officers and Employees
Article V. Special Provisions
   
5.1.   Bird Sanctuary
   
5.2.   Sale of Real Estate at Private Sale
   
Charter Comparative Table   Session Laws
Editor’s note:
    Printed herein is the Charter of The Town of Pinebluff being Session Laws
1070, chapter 243, as adopted by the North Carolina Legislature on April 2,
1979, and effective on the same date. Amendments to the Charter are indicated
by history footnotes following amended provisions. The absence of a history
footnote indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original
Charter. Obvious misspellings have been corrected without notation. For
stylistic purposes, a uniform system of headings, catchlines and citations to
state statutes has been used. Words and punctuation added for clarity are
indicated by brackets.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.1. INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina, in the County of Moore, and the
inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate, under the name and style of the “Town of Pinebluff”, (hereinafter at
times referred to as the “Town”).
§ 1.2. POWERS.
   The Town of Pinebluff shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties,
rights, privileges and immunities, which are now, or hereafter may be,
conferred either expressly or by implication, upon the Town of Pinebluff
specifically, or upon municipal corporations generally, by this Charter, by the
State Constitution, or by general or local laws.
§ 1.3. CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits of the Town of Pinebluff shall be those existing at the
time of ratification of this Charter, as the same are set forth on the official
map of the Town, and as the same may be altered from time to time in accordance
with law. An official map of the Town, showing the current Town boundaries,
shall be maintained permanently in the office of the Town Clerk, and shall be
available for public inspection. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate
limits made pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official map of the
Town shall be made.
ARTICLE II. MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 2.1. GOVERNING BODY.
   The Mayor and Board of Commissioners, elected and constituted as herein set
forth, shall be the governing body of the Town. On behalf of the Town, and in
conformity with applicable laws, the Mayor and Board may provide for the
exercise of all municipal powers, and shall be charged with the general
government of the Town.
§ 2.2. BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall be composed of five (5) members, each of
whom shall be elected for terms of four (4) years in the manner provided by
Article III of this Charter; provided, they shall serve until their successors
are elected and qualified.
Editor’s note:
   The Charter was amended to provide for two (2) year terms instead of four
(4) year terms by “An Ordinance Amending the Charter of the Town of Pinebluff
Implementing a Two Year Term for the Members of the Town of Pinebluff Board of
Commissioners” adopted on March 19, 1987 and subsequently agreed to by the
State Legislature.
§ 2.3. ELECTION OF THE MAYOR; TERM OF OFFICE; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be elected directly by the voters of the Town in the manner
provided by Article III of this Charter for a term of four (4) years; provided,
the Mayor shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified. The Mayor
shall be the official head to the Town government and shall preside at all
meetings of the Board of Commissioners. He shall have the right to vote only if
there are an equal number of votes in the affirmative and the negative on any
matter before the Board. The Mayor shall exercise such powers and perform such
duties as presently are or hereafter may be conferred upon him by the General
Statutes of North Carolina, by this Charter, and by the ordinances of the Town.
Editor’s note:
   The Charter was amended to provide for two (2) year terms instead of four
(4) year terms by “An Ordinance Amending the Charter of the Town of Pinebluff
Implementing a Two Year Term for the Members of the Town of Pinebluff Board of
Commissioners” adopted on March 19, 1987 and subsequently agreed to by the
State Legislature.
§ 2.4. MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   In accordance with applicable State laws, the Board of Commissioners shall
appoint one of its members to act as Mayor pro tempore to perform the duties of
the Mayor in the Mayor’s absence or disability. In the event of a vacancy in
the office of the Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the
Mayor until the vacancy is filled. The Mayor pro tempore as such shall have no
fixed term of office, but shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the
remaining members of the Board.
ARTICLE III. MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
§ 3.1. REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in the Town every two (2) years in
odd-numbered years and shall be conducted in accordance with the uniform
municipal election laws of North Carolina. The Mayor and members of the Board
of Commissioners shall be elected according to the nonpartisan plurality method
of election, as provided in G.S. 163-292.
§ 3.2. ELECTION OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   At the regular municipal election in 2017, the Mayor and the two (2)
Commissioners receiving the highest number of votes cast shall be elected to
four (4) year terms expiring in 2021. The three (3) Commissioners receiving the
next highest number or votes cast in the 2017 regular municipal election shall
be elected to two (2) year terms, expiring in 2019, at which time the seats
held by said Commissioners shall be subject to four (4) year terms at the
regular municipal election 2019. Thereafter, all terms of office for
Commissioners and the Mayor shall be four (4) years.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 4.1. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The Town shall operate under the Mayor-Council form of government in
accordance with Part 3 of Article 7, Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
§ 4.2. TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Attorney who shall be
licensed to engage in the practice of law in the State of North Carolina. It
shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute and defend suits against
the Town; to advise the Mayor, Board of Commissioners and other Town officials
with respect to the affairs of the Town; to draft all legal documents relating
to the affairs of the Town; to inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts,
franchises and other instruments with which the Town may be concerned; and to
perform other duties required by law or as the Board of Commissioners may
direct. The Board of Commissioners may employ other legal counsel from time to
time, in addition to the Town Attorney, as may be necessary to handle
adequately the legal affairs of the Town.
§ 4.3. TOWN CLERK.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of
the proceedings of the Board, to maintain in a safe place all records and
documents pertaining to the affairs of the Town, and to perform such other
duties as may be required by law or as the Board of Commissioners may direct.
§ 4.4. TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Tax Collector to collect all
taxes, licenses, fees and other moneys belonging to the Town, subject to the
General Statutes, the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the
Town. The Town Tax Collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all the
laws of North Carolina relating to the collection of taxes by municipalities.
§ 4.5. TOWN TREASURER.
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Town Treasurer, or Finance
Officer, to perform the duties of the finance officer as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, and to perform such other duties as
may be required by the Board.
§ 4.6. CONSOLIDATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The Board of Commissioners may consolidate any two or more positions of Town
Clerk, Town Tax Collector or Town Treasurer, or may assign the functions on any
one or more of these positions to the holder or holders of any other of these
positions, subject to the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
§ 4.7. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Consistent with applicable State laws, the Board of Commissioners may
establish other positions, provide for the appointment of other administrative
officers and employees, and generally organize the Town government in order to
promote the orderly and efficient administration of the affairs of the Town.
ARTICLE V. SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.1. BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (a)   The Town of Pinebluff, within its entire corporate limits, is hereby
declared to be a Bird Sanctuary. It shall be the duty of the Town officials to
use such means as they deem best to encourage the citizenry to attract and
protect all birds. A number of appropriate signs shall be placed on the
highways where they enter the Town, stating the Town is a Bird Sanctuary and
all birds are protected by both State and Federal law. and that harming them in
any way is a misdemeanor and punishable as such.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful within the Town limits to pursue, shoot, hunt,
kill, capture, snare or net any bird, collect birds’ nests, except old and
abandoned nests, or eggs, and all lesser acts such as disturbing or annoying
birds or placing or using any net or other device for the purpose of taking
birds, whether or not they result in taking such birds, except as hereinafter
provided.
   (c)   The Town Board may, upon the recommendation of two adults of good
repute owning and maintaining residence within the Town, issue licenses,
revocable at their pleasure, permitting owners of real estate to shoot, trap or
destroy, upon their own property, any or all birds named in the bulletins
issued by the United States Biological Survey as not worthy of protection.
   (d)   It shall be lawful under a bird-banding permit issued by the United
States Bureau of Biological Survey, endorsed or supplemented by the State
officials of North Carolina, to maintain a bird-banding station and to capture
live and uninjured birds for banding purposes.
   (e)   Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and punishable by
a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), or imprisonment for thirty days.
§ 5.2. SALE OF REAL ESTATE AT PRIVATE SALE.
   In order to convey real estate owned in the name of the Town of Pinebluff,
it shall be necessary for the deed of conveyance to be executed by the Mayor
and the Town Clerk. All real estate heretofore sold at private sale by the Town
of Pinebluff and deed for same made and executed by Levi Packard, is hereby
validated.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
SESSION LAWS.
   This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any
amendments thereto.
 
Year Chapter Date     Section this Charter
1979 243     4-2-1979 Arts. I-V
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Pinebluff shall be
designated as the “Code of Pinebluff, North Carolina” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AT-LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his, her, or their immediate family or other authorized
person either by leash, cord, chain, or other tangible device.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The legislative body of the Town of Pinebluff,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computer by excluding the first and including the last day, and if the last day
is Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Moore County, North Carolina.
      DOG. Both male and female of the canine species.
      GENDER. Words imparting one gender shall include the other genders.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      GRAVE SITE. One grave plot.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Includes spouse, child, mother, father, stepmother,
stepfather, sister, brother, grandmother, grandfather, mother-in-law, father-
in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in- law, brother-in-law, and
grandchild.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      KENNEL. Any place where dogs are kept for breeding and subsequent
commercial sale, a place where dogs are boarded for a fee, and any place where
more than three dogs are kept.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PARKWAY. Any portion of a street, between the curbline and the adjacent
property line.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. When applied to dogs, shall be intended to mean any dog
which habitually or repeatedly chases, attacks, snaps at, or barks at
pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicles, turns over garbage cans, damages gardens,
or excessively or continuously barks.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      SUPERMAJORITY. When applied to actions of the Board of Commissioners,
means that four of the five Commissioners must agree to a motion for it to
pass. This term will apply in particular to issues of involuntary annexation of
property to the town and in cases whereby consideration is given to selling
real property owned by the town.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing an
artificial body of water for swimming, diving, or recreational bathing.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Ord. passed 12-19-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Admission of code in evidence, see G.S. § 160A-79
   Adoption of code of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-77
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Definitions and rules for construction of statutes, see G.S. § 12-3
   Definitions and rules of statutory construction relating to municipalities,
see G.S. § 160A-1
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such a construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of that act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such an error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter, or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, if any, are listed following the text of the
code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise    exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code or any other ordinance shall be a misdemeanor or an infraction as the
case may be, and punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of
not more than 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within a
period of time prescribed by the court after such offender has been cited for
such violation.
   (C)   Any provision of this code or any other ordinance may be enforced by
any appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   (1)   Any provision of this code or any other ordinance that makes
unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice shall
have jurisdiction to issue such orders.
      (2)   When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town may apply to
the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and rules governing
civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in general and Rule
65 in particular.
      (3)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgement in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or other movable property be removed from
buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that improvements or
repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this code or such ordinance.
      (4)   If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, such defendant
may be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement.
      (5)   The town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of
executing an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s
lien.
      (6)   The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all costs of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior
Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and
shall be conditioned on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order
of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
   (E)   The provisions of this code and any other ordinance may be enforced by
any one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this
section.
   (F)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or any other ordinance shall be a
separate and distinct offense
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
   Authority, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body; composition, duties, and powers
   
30.02   Mayor general duties, vote in case of tie, pro tem
   
30.03   Town attorney appointment and duties
   
30.04   Committee appointments and duties
   
30.05   Addition, consolidation, termination, or reassignment of administrative
offices
   
30.06   Vacancies in administrative office
   
30.07   Town Clerk and Treasurer appointment and duties
   
30.08   Tax Collector appointment and duties
Meetings and Procedures
   
30.20   Regular meetings
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Adjourned meetings
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Quorum
   
30.25   Previous questions
   
30.26   Motions having precedence
   
30.27   Motions to adjourn
   
30.28   Action on resignations of members
   
30.29   Proposal of ordinances in writing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY; COMPOSITION, DUTIES, AND POWERS.
   (A)   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and five
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
   (B)   The Commissioners’ duties and powers are such as set out by statute
and by the Town Charter.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
2.1 and
4.1
§ 30.02 MAYOR GENERAL DUTIES, VOTE IN CASE OF TIE, PRO TEM.
   (A)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
      (1)   Preside over all meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Vote in case of a tie;
      (3)   Keep himself, herself, or themself informed as to the town’s
business;
      (4)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced; and
      (5)   Perform such other and further duties as the nature of the office
may require.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
   (B)   Vote in case of tie. When there is an equal division of the Board upon
any question, the Mayor may vote to break the tie, but the Mayor shall have no
vote under any other circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
   (C)   Mayor Pro Tem. At the first meeting of the Board after each election,
it shall select one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem
shall have no fixed term of office. The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform all the
duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s absence or disability.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
   (D)   Sale of real property. The Mayor may execute deeds of conveyance
pursuant to §
5.2 of the Town Charter only with the approval of a supermajority of the Board
of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 1-15)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
2.3 and
2.4
§ 30.03 TOWN ATTORNEY APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   At the first regular meeting following the election and
qualifications of members, the Board shall reappoint the incumbent Town
Attorney.
      (2)   The Town Attorney in place at the time of the initial meeting of a
newly-elected Board of Commissioners shall be retained as Town Attorney until
at least the second regularly scheduled meeting of the newly-elected Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   Should the newly-elected Board of Commissioners decide to appoint a
new Town Attorney, such appointment may take place during or after the second
regularly scheduled meeting of the newly-elected Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board of Commissioners, and other town officials
with respect to the affairs of the town;
      (3)   Draft all legal documents relating to the affairs of the town;
      (4)   Inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts, franchises and
other instruments with which the town may be concerned; and
      (5)   Perform other duties required by law or as the Board of
Commissioners may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §
4.2
§ 30.04 COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment; assigning duties. The Mayor shall appoint such committees
and assign to them the duties as such official deems necessary for the proper
and efficient operation of the municipal government.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
   (B)   Duties generally. Each committee shall be held responsible for its
respective assignment and shall make recommendations in writing to the Mayor
and Board as it deems advisable in order that its department may operate with
efficiency and economy.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §
4.7
§ 30.05 ADDITION, CONSOLIDATION, TERMINATION, OR REASSIGNMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE
OFFICES.
   The Board may add any administrative office and fix the duties, consolidate
any two or more administrative offices, reassign duties, and terminate any
office, in accordance with state law. All actions under this section shall be
subject to appropriations therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
4.6 and
4.7
§ 30.06 VACANCIES IN ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   All vacancies occurring from any cause whatsoever in any administrative
office shall be filled by the Board as soon thereafter as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
§ 30.07 TOWN CLERK AND TREASURER APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Clerk and Treasurer shall be appointed by the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk and Treasurer to:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Board;
      (2)   Keep an accurate record of all proceedings of the Board;
      (3)   Make such financial reports and statements as the Board may
require;
      (4)   Keep the books of accounts of the town, which shall show the
following:
         (a)   A detailed statement of all moneys collected for the town by all
the town officers and officials;
         (b)   All property belonging to the town and the income derived
therefrom;
         (c)   Each payment of the town’s money, its purposes, and to whom
paid;
         (d)   A separate account for each department of the town government;
and
         (e)   All other accounts as may be necessary for the financial
statement of the town.
      (5)   Keep the original of all ordinances and the corporate seal;
      (6)   Sign, with the appropriate official, all warrants or orders for the
payment of public funds;
      (7)   Cooperate with the Tax Collector, collect all real and personal
taxes and all license and privilege taxes that may be assessed, and file a
statement of such collections with the Board;
      (8)   Keep a map of the cemetery, sell lots therein, and keep a record of
same;
      (9)   Keep a record of all officers and employees who are receiving
compensation; who are under bond, the amount and surety on same; and all who
are required to take oath before being admitted to office; and shall also show
whether the compensation, bond or oath is provided by state law, charter, or
ordinance; if the latter, the number of the ordinance and date of same;
      (10)   Receive and keep an account of all moneys which such officer shall
receive in behalf of the town; and
      (11)   Perform other such duties as may be assigned.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
4.3 and
4.5
§ 30.08 TAX COLLECTOR APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment. A town Tax Collector shall be appointed by the Board or
the town may contract with the county to have tax collection services rendered
by the county’s Tax Collector.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to:
      (1)   Collect all personal and real property taxes in cooperation with
the Town Clerk;
      (2)   Collect all license taxes, street assessments, and dog taxes, in
cooperation with the Town Clerk;
      (3)   Cooperate with the Police Department;
      (4)   Pay over to the Town Treasurer all moneys collected;
      (5)   File a detailed report each month with the Board, showing the
amount of money, and from what source, collected; and
      (6)   Perform all duties assigned.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
Charter reference:
   Related provisions, see §
4.4
MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meeting of the Board shall be on the third Thursday of each
month at Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Mayor when deemed
necessary, and shall be called upon the written request of two or more
Commissioners, of which special meeting all Commissioners shall be notified in
writing or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.22 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the
Board, or if for any reason the meeting shall fail to complete transaction of
the business before the meeting, such meeting may be adjourned to any date
prior to the next regular meeting, agreed upon by a majority of the members
present.
(Prior Code, § 2-22)
§ 30.23 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings shall be as follows:
      (1)   Approval of minutes of last meeting;
      (2)   Reports of committees;
      (3)   Reports of officers;
      (4)   Unfinished business;
      (5)   Reading communications; and
      (6)   New business.
   (B)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the meeting.
   (C)   No motion shall be entertained by the Presiding Officer until it has
been seconded, and every motion shall, when required by the Presiding Officer
or any member, be reduced to writing.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
§ 30.24 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board or the Mayor and at least three
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.25 PREVIOUS QUESTIONS.
   The previous question may be called at any time by a majority of the members
present. The ayes and noes may be called for by any member.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 30.26 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received
except to:
      (1)   Lay on the table;
      (2)   Postpone to a time certain;
      (3)   Postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   Refer to a committee;
      (5)   Amend;
      (6)   Strike or insert; and/or
      (7)   Divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order
named above.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.27 MOTIONS TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and shall be decided without
debate.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.28 ACTION ON RESIGNATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing, and such
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
§ 30.29 PROPOSAL OF ORDINANCES IN WRITING.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance, and every new
ordinance, shall be proposed in writing, signed by the member presenting the
same, and approved as to form by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
CHAPTER 31: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Law Enforcement
   
31.01   Police Department organization
   
31.02   Auxiliary Police Department organization
   
31.03   Head of Department
   
31.04   Administration of Department
   
31.05   Entering into agreements
   
31.06   General duties
   
31.07   Residence requirement
   
31.08   Appointment of additional police
   
31.09   Outside agencies
   
31.10   Police power extended to town property
Fire Department
   
31.25   Composition and organization
   
31.26   Officers
   
31.27   Appointment of the Chief
   
31.28   Appointment of Department officers
   
31.29   General powers of Chief
   
31.30   General duties of Chief
   
31.31   Application, appointment, and supervision
   
31.32   Physical fitness requirements
   
31.33   Equipment
   
31.34   Rules and regulations
   
31.35   Fundraising, social arm of Fire Department
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 31.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers and other personnel as the Board of Commissioners shall from
time to time determine to be necessary, and as many special police officers as
the Mayor and Board of Commissioners deem necessary to appoint for special
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
§ 31.02 AUXILIARY POLICE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Whereas, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a), a town may, by ordinance,
provide for the organization of an Auxiliary Police Department made up of
volunteer members, and by enactment of an ordinance, may provide that while
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the city
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police of the city,
auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits for which
such volunteer personnel qualify.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby established within the town’s Police Department,
as a division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division.
      (2)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a volunteer organization,
whole members shall serve without compensation, composed of as many members may
from time to time be determined by the Chief of Police and approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 31.03 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police is designated the head of the town’s Police Department,
as the term is used in G.S. § 160A-288, and is delegated the authority to make
or grant requests pursuant to this statute.
(Prior Code, § 14-11)
§ 31.04 ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, subject to the direction of the Board of
Commissioner and through supervision by the Public Safety Commissioner, shall
have charge of the police force.
   (B)   He, she, or they shall assign such duties and uniforms as he, she, or
they thinks best for the good order of the town, and he, she, or they shall be
responsible to the Public Safety Commissioner in seeing to it that the police
officers faithfully perform their duties.
   (C)   The Chief shall keep the Public Safety Commissioner informed of the
Department’s activities and make such reports that the Board of Commissioners
or the Public Safety Commissioner may from time to time require.
(Prior Code, § 14-12)
§ 31.05 ENTERING INTO AGREEMENTS.
   In accordance with provisions of G.S. § 160A-288, the Police Chief is
authorized to enter into agreements for exchanging law enforcement officers,
equipment, or supplies.
(Prior Code, § 14-13)
§ 31.06 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The general duties of the Police Chief include:
   (A)   Supervise the Department;
   (B)   When directed by the Board of Commissioners, organize, train, and
supervise an Auxiliary or Reserve Police Department made up of volunteer
members;
   (C)   Preserve the peace by suppressing all disturbances and by apprehending
all offenders;
   (D)   Assign such duties to the police officers as he, she, or they deems
best for the welfare of the town; and
   (E)   Carry out such further duties as may be assigned to him, her, or them
by the Public Safety Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 14-14)
§ 31.07 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT.
   It is desirable that police officers employed by the town be residents of
the town, but the Public Safety Commissioner is authorized in his, her, or
their discretion to employ or continue to employ police officers who reside
outside of the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-22)
§ 31.08 APPOINTMENT OF ADDITIONAL POLICE.
   Whenever an emergency arises requiring the same, the Public Safety
Commissioner shall have the authority to employ or appoint as many qualified
police officers as may be necessary for the extent of such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 14-23)
§ 31.09 OUTSIDE AGENCIES.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to enter into law enforcement mutual aid
agreements with other law enforcement agencies in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 160A-288.
(Prior Code, § 14-31)
§ 31.10 POLICE POWER EXTENDED TO TOWN PROPERTY.
   The police power of the town is hereby extended to include all lands and
property owned or leased by the town or any agency of the town, and the general
ordinances of the town shall be applicable on such land and property
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to extend jurisdiction, see G.S. § 160A-176
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.25 COMPOSITION AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of such volunteer and full time
members, and such quarters, vehicles, apparatus, equipment and other personal
property as may from time to time be authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The management and operation of the Fire Department shall be as
provided by regulations promulgated pursuant to §
31.28.
(Prior Code, § 10-23) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.26 OFFICERS.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, Assistant Chief(s), Captain
(s), Lieutenants(s), and other positions as the Board of Commissioners, on
advice of the Chief, may deem necessary for the effective operation of the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 10-24) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.27 APPOINTMENT OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Chief of the Fire Department,
such Chief to be appointed by the Board of Commissioners to serve at the
Board’s pleasure.
   (B)   The Chief shall be technically qualified by training and experience
and shall have the ability to lead people and hold their respect and
confidence.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to demote,
suspend, or dismiss the Fire Chief.
   (D)   The Chief shall report to the Board of Commissioners through the
Public Safety Commissioner and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 10-25) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.28 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, on recommendation of the Fire Chief, Mayor
and current officers, shall approve minimum qualifications to be met by all
nominees for the positions of Chief, Assistant Chief, Captain, Lieutenant,
Training Officer, Personnel Captain and any other positions established by the
Board of Commissioners, promulgated pursuant to § 32.29.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, and other officer positions
shall be appointed in accordance with this section.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners will then appoint a member taking into
consideration the Fire Chief’s recommendation.
(Prior Code, § 10-26) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.29 GENERAL POWERS OF CHIEF.
   Subject to the general supervision by the Board, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall have general control of the Department, the personnel, and
apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 10-27) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.30 GENERAL DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   In addition to the other duties set forth in this subchapter, as amended
from time to time, the Chief of the Fire Department shall:
   (A)   Oversee the maintenance of all equipment of the Fire Department;
   (B)   Compel, if necessary, all officers of the town to aid in the
extinguishing of fires and the handling of emergencies;
   (C)   Enforce all rules and ordinances relative to fire prevention;
   (D)   Report to the Board all violations of this subchapter and other fire
prevention ordinances;
   (E)   Oversee training of Fire Department personnel;
   (F)   See that complete records are kept of all fires, inspections,
apparatus, and minor equipment, personnel and other information about Fire
Department operations;
   (G)   Report monthly to the Board the general condition of the major
apparatus and equipment, the number of fires during the month, their location
and cause, and date of same, the number and purpose of all other runs made, and
the number of members responding to each fire or other run; and
   (H)   Perform such other duties as from time to time the Board may
prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 10-28) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.31 APPLICATION, APPOINTMENT, AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   On and after the effective date of this subchapter, all applications
to become a volunteer firefighter for the town will be reviewed by the Fire
Chief of the town, who will recommend selection or rejection of the application
to the full membership, along with reasons for the recommendation.
   (B)   Thereafter, the Chief’s recommendation and reasons therefor, and the
membership’s recommendation, along with reasons therefor if the recommendation
is rejection of the application, shall be submitted to the Board of
Commissioners who will either appoint or reject the application, taking into
consideration the recommendations of the Chief.
   (C)   The persons who are volunteer firefighters of the town as of the
effective date of this subchapter, shall be governed by the rules and
regulations of the town, as the same now exists or as they may be hereafter
amended, and shall be supervised by the chain of command as established by the
town from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 10-29) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.32 PHYSICAL FITNESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the final appointment as a volunteer firefighter, the
applicant must meet any and all minimum physical fitness requirements as set
out in the Fire Department regulations promulgated pursuant to § 32.29, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and must pass a physical examination.
   (B)   The Board may also promulgate ongoing minimum physical fitness
requirements and require and/or provide for physical examinations of the
members, pursuant to the provisions of § 32.29.
(Prior Code, § 10-30) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.33 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)    Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made by
the Chief, and, after approval by the Board, shall be purchased in a manner as
may be designated by the Board. Provided that nothing herein prohibits any Fire
Department nonprofit corporation created pursuant to § 32.30 from purchasing
equipment and apparatus with its own funds as it sees fit.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in those places as may be designated by the Board.
   (D)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment without proper
authority from the Fire Chief or Town Board for any private purpose. No person
shall take away or conceal any article used in any way by the Fire Department.
   (E)   No person shall take away or conceal any article used in any way by
the Department.
   (F)   No member of the public shall enter any place where fire apparatus is
housed or handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by, or having the special permission of, an officer or authorized
member of the Department. This provision shall not apply to town officials and
employees who may need to enter on official town business or for other
legitimate reasons.
(Prior Code, § 10-31) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 31.34 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, and Board of Commissioners, in consultation with the Chief of the
Fire Department as of the date this subchapter is adopted, and the Town
Attorney, shall prepare standard operating guidelines for the government of the
Fire Department and the personnel thereof. Such guidelines, which may be
amended from time to time, shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for
approval. A copy of all such approved rules and regulations shall also be
placed on file at the Fire Department headquarters and in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-32) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
§ 31.35 FUNDRAISING, SOCIAL ARM OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The volunteer Fire Department membership may organize a nonprofit
corporation for fundraising and social purposes and may elect a President,
Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer and such other officers, as it deems
advisable.
   (B)   Such officers may be elected in any manner and for any term the
membership may decide on, and their duties shall be to arrange for and manage
any and all fundraising and social functions sponsored by the corporation.
   (C)   The function and duties of the social officers shall in no way
interfere with those of the regular Department officers who are charged with
responsibility for all fire service activities of the Department.
   (D)   The name of any such organization shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners, said approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
   (E)   The fundraising/social organization shall report to the Board of
Commissioners at least once per year to generally advise of its activities for
the previous year, including money raised and equipment purchased, if any.
   (F)   The funds so raised may be used for any lawful purpose as the
nonprofit organization deems fit, and are subject by the town’s Finance
Director audit.
(Prior Code, § 10-33) (Ord. passed 5-21-1998; Ord. passed 8-20-1998)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Definition
   
32.02   Mayor authorizations
   
32.03   Curfew restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Public safety and law enforcement, see
Chapter 31
§ 32.01 DEFINITION.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 32.02 MAYOR AUTHORIZATIONS.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare the people within the town,
or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the town is
hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in order more
effectively to protect the lives, safety, and property of the people within the
town, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application
of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
corporate limits of the town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses, and such
other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
   (C)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state and curfew as soon as
circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 32.03 CURFEW RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to such curfew to:
   (A)   Be or travel upon any public street, alley, or upon public property,
unless in search of medical assistance, food, or other commodity or service
necessary to sustain the well-being of himself, herself, or themself, or his,
her, or their family or some member thereof;
   (B)   Possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell, give away, or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous
weapon of any kind;
   (C)   Sell beer, wines, or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to possess
or consume the same off one’s own premises; or
   (D)   Sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products, or any other
inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the provisions of the
curfew imposed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Adoption by reference
§ 33.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel policies are adopted herein by reference, a copy of
which is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and is available for public
inspection and copying during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, Ch. 19)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
      
51.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
52.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Water and sewer connection required
   
50.02   Discontinued septic system
   
50.03   Use of well and cross-connection control provisions
   
50.04   Enforcement
   
50.05   Unauthorized tampering with water meter
   
50.06   Filling and draining swimming pools
Rules and Regulations
   
50.20   Classification of service
   
50.21   Rate schedule and tap-on fees
   
50.22   Application for service
   
50.23   Deposit
   
50.24   Tap-on fee
   
50.25   Town’s responsibility and liability
   
50.26   Consumer’s responsibility
   
50.27   Access to premises
   
50.28   Change of occupancy
   
50.29   Meter reading, billing, and collection
   
50.30   Suspension of service, notice, and hearing
   
50.31   Complaints and adjustments
   
50.32   Requests for extension of service
   
50.33   General extension requirements
   
50.34   Financing extensions within and outside corporate limits
   
50.35   Specifications and ownership
   
50.36   Abridgement or modification of rules
   
50.37   Sewer franchise
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water connection required. The owner of developed property on which
there are situated one or more residential dwelling units or commercial
establishments located within the town limits shall connect the plumbing system
of the property to the town’s water system if any portion of the property is
located within a distance of 120 feet of any town water line. Those property
owners who had existing wells at the time the new town water system was
installed shall have two years from July 22, 1986 to connect to the town’s
system. Until such date of connection, the property owner will pay the existing
minimum water rate assessed to all town water users.
      (1)   Irrigation meter requirements. All new in-ground irrigations
systems installed after application of this section that will be supplied from
the town’s water system and shall be independently connected to the system and
water consumption shall be measured through a separate irrigation meter.
      (2)   Methods of connection. An irrigation service line may be installed
by a direct tap into the (separate tap) or by a split line off the non-
irrigation service line at a point between the main and the non-irrigation
meter (split tap). Either method of connection shall be performed by the town’s
Water Department or a licensed contractor. A licensed contractor must obtain a
permit from the town prior to installing an irrigation service line.
      (3)   Technical and other requirements. An irrigation service line, the
irrigation meter and all related appurtenances that apply to non-irrigation
meters.
   (B)   Sewer connection required.
      (1)   Developed property. The owner of a developed property located
within the town limits shall connect the plumbing system of the property to the
town’s sewer system if any portion of the property is located within 120 feet
of any town’s sewer line. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, a developed
property served by a septic system as of January 19, 2012 shall only be
required to connect to the town’s sewer system if the septic system fails. For
the purpose of this section, a septic system has “failed” when either:
         (a)   Sewage or effluent backs into the building, building drains, or
collection system served by the septic system; or
         (b)   The septic tank must be replaced.   
      (2)   Undeveloped property. The owner of an undeveloped property within
the town limits shall connect the property to the town’s sewer system if:
         (a)   Residential development has been proposed for the property; and
         (b)   Any part of the property is located within the following
distance of any town sewer line: 120 feet plus ten feet for each proposed
dwelling unit in excess of four units. The owner of any undeveloped property
within the town limits shall connect the property to the town’s sewer system
if:
            1.   Nonresidential development has been proposed for the property;
and
            2.   Any part of the property is located within the following
distance of any town sewer line: 120 feet plus ten feet for every 500 square
feet or less of heated space above 2,000 square feet of heated space proposed
to build.
(Prior Code, § 15-1) (Ord. passed 7-22-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUED SEPTIC SYSTEM.
   If a property owner abandons a septic system for any reason, the contents of
the septic lines and tank must be removed, the remaining system components must
be collapsed and backfilled, and the discontinued system must be otherwise
secured as required by the county’s Environmental Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 15-1.1) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 USE OF WELL AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Cross-connection control. Any wells that were in existence on July 22,
1986 may continue to be used by the owner or tenant of the real property
whereon the well is located for uses other than domestic household water
supply. For purposes of this section, domestic household water supply shall
mean water used on the interior of the home for any purpose. No new private
wells may be installed within the town after August 29, 2002. There shall be no
cross-connection of the town’s water system with any private well or any other
source of water supply.
      (1)   The purpose of this cross-connection control section is to define
the authority of the town as the water purveyor in the elimination of all
cross-connections within its public potable water supply.
      (2)   This section shall apply to all users connected to the town’s
potable water supply regardless of whether the user is located within the
corporate limits of the town or outside of its corporate limits.
      (3)   This section will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act
(Pub. Law No. 93-523), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., the State Building Code
(Volume II) as they pertain to cross-connection with the public water supply.
   (B)   Objectives. The specific objectives of this cross-connection control
section for the town are as follows:   
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the county against
actual or potential contamination by isolating within the consumer’s water
system contaminants or pollutants which could, under adverse conditions,
backflow through uncontrolled cross-connections into the public water system;
      (2)   To eliminate or control existing cross-connections, actual or
potential, between the consumer’s potable water system and non-potable or
industrial piping system; and
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross-connection
control which will systematically and effectively control all actual or
potential cross-connections which may be installed in the future.
   (C)   Responsibilities.
      (1)   Health agency. The state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources has the responsibility for promulgating and enforcing laws, rules,
regulations, and polices to be followed in carrying out an effective cross-
connection control program. The state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources also has the primary responsibility of insuring that the water
purveyor operates the public potable water system free of actual or potential
sanitary hazards, including unprotected cross-connections. The state’s
Department of Environment and Natural Resources has the further responsibility
of insuring that the water purveyor provides an approved water supply at the
service connection to the consumer’s water system and further, that he, she, or
they requires the installation, testing and maintenance of an approve backflow
prevention assembly on the service connection when required.
      (2)   Water purveyor. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
water purveyor’s responsibility to ensure a safe water supply begins at the
source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including the
service connection, and ends at the point of delivery to the consumer’s water
system. In addition, the water purveyor shall exercise reasonable vigilance to
insure that the consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the public
potable water system. To insure that the proper precaution are taken, the town
is required to determine the degree of hazard or potential hazard to the public
potable water system; to determine the degree of protection required; and to
ensure proper containment protection through an on-going inspection program.
When it is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is required for the
protection of the public water system, the town shall the consumer, at the
consumer’s expense, to install an approved backflow prevention assemble at each
service connection, to test immediately upon installation and thereafter to
annually test, properly repair and maintain such assembly or assemblies and to
keep adequate record of each test and subsequent maintenance and repair
including material and/or replacement parts.
      (3)   Plumbing inspections. The town’s Inspection Department has the
responsibility to not only review building plans inspect plumbing as it is
installed; but, they have the explicit responsibility of preventing cross-
connections from being designed and built into the plumbing system with its
jurisdiction. Where the review of building plans suggest or detects the
potential for cross-connections being made an integral part of the plumbing
system, the plumbing inspector has the responsibility, under the State Building
Code, for requiring that such cross-connection be ether eliminated or provided
with backflow prevention equipment approved by the State Building Code, the
Plumbing Inspector’s responsibility begins at the point of delivery, downstream
of the first installed backflow prevention assembly, and continues throughout
the entire length of the consumer’s water system. The Plan Inspector should
inquire about the intended use of water at any point where it is suspected that
a cross-connection might be made or where one is actually called for by the
plans. When such is discovered, it shall be mandatory that a suitable, approve
backflow prevention assembly approved by the State Building Code be required by
the plans and be properly installed. The primary protection assembly for
containment purposes only shall have approval from ASSE, USC, UST, the State
Building Code, and the state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      (4)   Consumer. The consumer has the primary responsibility of preventing
pollutants and contaminants from entering his, her, or their potable water
system or the public potable water system. The consumer’s responsibility starts
at the point of delivery from the public potable water system. The consumer’s
responsibility starts at the point of delivery form the public potable water
system and includes all of his, her, or their waters system. The consumer, at
his, her, or their own expense, shall install, operate, test, and maintain
approved backflow prevention assemblies as directed by the town. The consumer
shall send a copy of these records to the town and maintain an accurate record
of tests and repairs made to backflow prevention assemblies and shall maintain
such records for a minimum period of three years. The records shall be on forms
approved by the town and shall include the list of materials or replacement
parts used. Following any repair, overhaul, re-piping or relocation of an
assembly, the consumer shall have it tested to insure that it is in good
operating condition and will prevent backflow. A certified backflow prevention
assembly tester shall make test, maintenance, and repairs of backflow
prevention assemblies.
      (5)   Certified backflow prevention assembly testers. When employed the
consumer to test, repair, overhaul, or maintain backflow prevention assemblies,
a backflow prevention assembly tester will have the following responsibilities;
the tester will be responsible for making competent inspections and for
repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies and making reports of
such repair to the consumer and responsible authorities on forms approved by
the town. The tester shall include the list of materials or replacement parts
used. The tester shall be equipped with and be competent to use all the
necessary tools, gauges, manometers and other equipment necessary to properly
test, repair, and maintain backflow prevention assemblies. It will be the
test’s responsibility to insure that original manufactured parts are used in
the repair of or replacement of parts in a backflow prevention assembly. It
will be the tester’s further responsibility not to change the design, material
or operational characteristics of an assembly during repair or maintenance
without prior approval of the manufacture. A certified tester shall perform the
work and be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and
reports. A certified tester shall provide a copy of all tests and repair
reports the consumer and to the town’s Water Department within ten business
days of any completed tests or repair work. A certified tester shall maintain
such records for a minimum period of three years. All certified test equipment
which has been evaluated and/or approved by the town. All test equipment shall
be registered with the town’s Water Department. All test equipment shall be
calibrated annually and certified to the town as to such calibration and that
an acceptable method was used. All certified backflow prevention assembly
tester must become re-certified every two years through an approved backflow
prevention certification program.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIR-GAP SEPARATION. A physical separation between the free flowing
discharge end of a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure
receiving vessel. An approved AIR-GAP SEPARATION shall be at least three time
the internal diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the overflow
rim of the receiving vessel, in no case less than one inch (2.54cm).
       APPROVED MEANS. As used in reference to a water supply that has been
approved by the state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources; or, as
used in reference to air-gap separation, a pressure-vacuum breaker, a double
check valve assembly, a double check detector assembly, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly, a reduced pressure principle detector
assembly, or other backflow prevention assemblies or methods means an approval
by the town.
       BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water
and other liquids, gases, or other substances into the distribution pipes of
the consumer or public potable water system from any source or source.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY; APPROVED. An assembly used for containment
and/or isolation purposes that has been investigated and approved by and has
been shown to meet the design and performance standards of the American Society
of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) or the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern California. The APPROVAL OF
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES is based on a favorable report by Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the University of Southern
California, recommending such an approval. To be approved, an assembly must be
readily assessable for in-line testing and maintenance, and shall successfully
complete a one-year field evaluation within the water system.
    BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY; UNAPPROVED. An assembly that has been
investigated by the town’s licensed tester and has been determined to be
unacceptable for installation within the town’s water system. Consideration for
disapproval and removal from the “approved list” shall be based upon, but not
limited to, the following criteria:
         (a)   Due to poor performance standard;
         (b)   Lack of or unavailability of repair parts; and/or
         (c)   Poor service or response of assembly factory representative.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY; TYPE. An assembly used to prevent backflow
into a consumer or public potable water system. The TYPE OF ASSEMBLY used
should be based on the degree of hazard either existing or potential. The TYPES
are:
         (a)   Double check valve assembly (DCVA);
         (b)   Double check detector assembly (fire system) (DCDA);
         (c)   Pressure vacuum breaker (PVB);
         (d)   Reduced pressure principle assembly (RP); and
         (e)   Reduced pressure principal detector assembly, fire system
(RPDA).
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER; CERTIFIED. A person who has proven
his, her, or their competency to the satisfaction of the state’s Water
Treatment Facility Operators Certification Board. Each person who is certified
to make competent test, or to repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow
prevention assemblies shall be knowledgeable of applicable laws, rules, and
regulations must hold a valid cross-connection control licenses from the
state’s Water Treatment Facility Operators Certification Board.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE-APPROVED. A device used for isolation purposes
that has been shown to meet the design and performance standards of the
American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) and the American Water Works
Association (AWWA).
      BACKPRESSURE BACKFLOW. Any elevation in the consumer water system, by
pump elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure, above the supply
pressure at the point of delivery which would cause, or tend to cause, a
reversal of the normal direction of flow.
      BACK-SIPHONAGE BACKFLOW. A reversal of the normal direction of flow in
the pipeline due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply
line with the backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
      CHECK VALVE-APPROVED. A check valve that is drip-tight in the normal
direction of flow when the inlet pressure is at least on psi and the outlet
pressure is zero. The check valve shall permit no leakage in a direction
reverse to the normal flow. The closure element (e.g., clapper, poppet, or
other design) shall be internal loaded to promote rapid and positive closure.
An APPROVED CHECK VALVE is only one component of approved backflow prevention
assembly, i.e., pressure vacuum breaker, double check valve assembly, double
check detector assembly, reduced pressure principle assembly, or reduced
pressure detector assembly.
      CONSUMER. Any person, firm or corporation using or receiving water from
the town’s water system.
       CONSUMER’S POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. The portion of the privately owned
potable water system lying between the point of delivery and point of use and/
or isolation protection. This SYSTEM will include all pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment and appurtenances used to produce, convey,
store, or use potable water.
      CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system commencing at the point of
delivery and continuing throughout the consumer’s plumbing system, located on
the consumer’s premises, whether supplied by public potable water or an
auxiliary water supply. The SYSTEM or SYSTEMS may be either a potable water
system or an industrial piping system.
      CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the public potable water supply
by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service
connection.
      CONTAMINATION. Any impairment of the quality of the water which creates a
potential or actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of
hazardous or toxic substances or through the spread of disease by sewage,
industrial fluids, or waste.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection or
structural arrangement between a public or a consumer’s water system and any
other source or system through which it is possible to introduce any
contamination or pollution, other than the intended potable water with the
system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable section,
swivel or change-over devices and other temporary or permanent devices through
which or because of which “backflow” can or may occur are considered to be
CROSS-CONNECTION.
      DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly composed of
a line-size approved double check valve assembly. The meter shall register (in
U.S. gallons) accurately for only very low rates of flow and shall show a
registration for all rates of flow. This ASSEMBLY shall only be used to protect
against a non-health hazard (i.e., pollutant).
      HAZARD; DEGREE OF. Derived from the evaluation of condition within a
system which can be classified as either a “pollutional” (non-health) or a
“contamination” (health) hazard.
      HAZARD; HEALTH. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a
physical, hazardous, or toxic nature to the public or the consumer’s potable
water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger to
health.
      HAZARD; NON-HEALTH. An actual or potential threat to the quality or the
potability of the public or the consumer’s potable water system but which would
not constitute a health or a system hazard, as defined. The maximum degree or
intensity of pollution to which the potable water system could be degraded
under this definition would cause a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable
or could cause minor damage to the system or its appurtenances.
      HEALTH AGENCY. The state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
      INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health or non-health hazard if introduced into a
public or consumer potable water system. Such FLUIDS may include, but are not
limited to: process waters; chemicals in fluid form; acids and alkalis, oils,
gases, and the like.
      INDUSTRIAL PIPING SYSTEM; CONSUMER’S. Any system used by the consumers
for transmission of or to confine or store any fluid, solid or gaseous
substance other than an approved water supply. Such a SYSTEM would include all
pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances use
to produce convey or store substances which are or may be polluted or
contaminated.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A consumer that is classified as a manufacturing
industry by the North American Industrial Classification Standard (NAICS),
Published by the U.S. Government Census Bureau. More than 50% of the consumer’s
utility usage must be for its manufacturing purposes.
      ISOLATION. The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer’s
water system by installing approved backflow prevention assemblies. The town
may make recommendations, upon facility inspections, as to the usages of
ISOLATION devices/assemblies, but does not assume or have responsibility
whatsoever for such installations.
      NONRESIDENTIAL. Includes:
         (a)   Office buildings, stores, shops, restaurants, service stations,
and other NONRESIDENTIAL establishments;
         (b)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and institutional care facilities;
         (c)   Schools, dormitories, churches, and other similar NONRESIDENTIAL
structures institutions; and
         (d)   Utility service(s) used in a multifamily residential structure
(other than the individual residential units), laundry facilities, recreational
facilities, and the like.
       POINT OF DELIVERY. Generally at the property line of the consumer,
adjacent to the public street where the town’s mains are located, or at a point
on the consumer’s property where the meter is located. The consumer shall be
responsible for all water piping and control devices located on the consumer’s
side of the POINT OF DELIVERY.
      POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which
does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such water for domestic use.
      POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been investigated by the
state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources and which has been
approved for human consumption.
      PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
operated as a public utility, under a current state Department of Environment
and Natural Resources permit to supply water for public consumption or use.
This SYSTEM will include all sources, facilities, and appurtenances between the
source and the point of delivery such as valves pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used to produce, convey,
treat, or store potable water for public consumption or use.
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly
containing within its structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved
check valves, together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically
independent, pressure differential relief valve located between the check
valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The first check valve
reduces the supply pressure a predetermined amount so that during normal flow
and at cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the checks is less than
the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the pressure
differential relief valve, by discharge to atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the checks less than the supply pressure. The
unit shall include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and each ASSEMBLY shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
The ASSEMBLY is designed to protect against a health hazard (i.e.,
contaminant).
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed
assembly composed of a line-sized approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-sized
approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventing assembly. The meter
shall register, in U.S. gallons, accurately for only very low rates of flow and
shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This ASSEMBLY shall be used to
protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant).
      RESIDENTIAL. An individual residence, defined as a single dwelling unit,
which provides permanent and independent facilities complete for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. An individual residence may include
a house, condominium, modular home, mobile home, or individually metered
apartment.
      SPLIT TAP. A line that is split prior to the point of delivery.
      VACUUM BREAKER; ATMOSPHERIC TYPE. Also known as the NON-PRESSURE TYPE
VACUUM BREAKER, means a device containing a float-check, a check seat, and an
air inlet port. The flow of water into the body causes the float to close the
air inlet port. When the flow of water stops, the float falls and forms a check
valve against back siphonage and at the same time opens the air inlet port to
allow air to enter and satisfy the vacuum. A shutoff valve immediately upstream
may be an integral part of the device. An ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER is
designed to protect against a non-health hazard, isolation protection only,
under a back siphonage condition only.
      VACUUM BREAKER; PRESSURE TYPE. An assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and independently operating loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly is
to be equipped with properly located test cocks and tightly closing shutoff
valves attached at each end of the assembly. The assembly is designed to
protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant) under a back siphonage
condition only.
      WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or operator of a public potable water system,
providing approved water supply to the public.
      WATER SUPPLY; APPROVED. Any public potable water supply, with has been
investigated and approved by the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources. The system must be operating under a valid public water supply
system permit. In determining what constitutes an APPROVED WATER SUPPLY, the
state’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources has reserved the final
judgment as to its safety and potability.
      WATER SUPPLY; AUXILIARY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public potable water supply. These AUXILIARY
WATERS may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or
any natural source such as well, spring river, stream, and the like, used
water, or industrial fluids. These WATERS may be polluted, contaminated, or
objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
purveyor does not have sanitary control should be disconnected at once.
      WATER SUPPLY; UNAPPROVED. A water supply which has not been approved for
human consumption by the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
      WATER; USED. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   (E)   Right of entry.
      (1)   Authorized representatives from the town shall have the right to
enter, upon presentation of proper credential and identification, any building
structure, or premised during normal business hours, or at any time during the
event of an emergency, to perform any duty imposed by this section. Those
duties may include sampling and testing of water, or inspections and
observations of all piping systems connected to the public water supply. Where
a user has security measures in force which would require proper identification
and clearance before entry into their premises, the owner shall make necessary
arrangement with the security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, the town’s personnel will be permitted to enter, without delay,
for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Refusal to
allow entry for these purposes may result in discontinuance of water service.
      (2)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the town any pertinent
information regarding the water supply system on such property where cross-
connections and backflow, are deemed possible.
   (F)   Elimination of cross-connections, degree of hazard.
      (1)   When cross-connections are found to exist, the owner, his, her, or
their agent, occupant, or tenant will be notified in writing to disconnect the
cross-connection within the town limit established by the town. Degree of
protection required and maximum time allowed for compliance will be based upon
the potential degree of hazard to the public water supply system. The maximum
time limits are as follows.
         (a)   Cross-connections with private well or other auxiliary water
supplies shall have immediate disconnection.
         (b)   All facilities which pose a health hazard to the potable water
system must have an air gap or containment assembly in the form of a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly within 30 days unless an
immediate health hazard exists then immediate disconnection is required or the
water will be shut off.
         (c)   All industrial and nonresidential facilities not identified, as
a health hazard shall be considered non-health hazard facilities. All non-
health hazard facilities must install, as a minimum containment assembly, a
double check valve assembly with 90 days unless otherwise approved the town’s
Public Works Director.
         (d)   If, in the judgment of the town’s Public Works Director, an
imminent health hazard exists, water service to the building or premises where
a cross-connection exists may be terminated unless an air gap is immediately
provided, or the cross-connection is immediately eliminated.
         (e)    Lawn irrigation systems are required to have a split tap or a
designated lawn irrigation service tap the connection of a lawn irrigation
system to the service line at any point after the point of delivery is
prohibited.
         (f)   Based upon recommendation from the town, the consumer is
responsible for installing sufficient internal isolation backflow prevention
assemblies and/or methods (i.e., air gap, pressure vacuum breakers, reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly, double check valve
assemblies).
         (g)   Waster mains served by the town but not maintained by the town
should be considered cross-connections, with degree of hazard, as determined by
the town.
         (h)   In the event that a town cross-connection control inspector does
not have sufficient access to every portion of a private water system (e.g.,
classified research and development facilities; federal government property) to
allow a complete evaluation of the degree of hazard associated with such
private systems, an approved reduced pressure principle assembly shall be
required as a minimum of protection.
         (I)    Consumer shall not modify their private water system in a
manner that would affect the degree hazard of such system until the town has
been provided with information showing that the appropriate backflow prevention
assembly is installed. If such modifications or change is determined by the
town to require the installation of a different backflow prevention assembly,
the require backflow prevention assembly must be installed in accordance with
provisions of this section prior to making the proposed modification or change.
      (2)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tanker containing
pesticides, fertilizers, or other toxic chemicals or their residues from the
public water system except at a location equipped with an air gap or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly properly
installed on the public water supply.
   (G)   Installation of assemblies.
      (1)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the specifications furnished by the town and/or the manufacture’s
installation instructions and/or in the latest edition of the State Building
Code, whichever is most restrictive.
      (2)   All new construction plans and specifications, when required by the
State Building Code and the state’s Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, shall be made available to the town for review and approval, and to
determine the degree of hazard.
      (3)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the assembly shall be the
responsibility of the consumer.
      (4)   All double check valve assemblies two and one-half inches and
larger must be installed above ground unless otherwise approved in writing by
the town’s Public Works Director.
      (5)   Reduced pressure principle assemblies must be installed in a
horizontal position and in a location where no portion of the assembly can
become submerged in any substance under any circumstances. Pit and/or below
grade installations are prohibited unless otherwise approved in writing by the
town’s Public Works Director and the vault is gravity drained. Double check
valve assemblies may be installed in a vertical position with prior approval
from the town’s Water Department provided the flow of water is in an upward
direction.
      (6)   The installation of a backflow prevention assembly that is not
approved must be replaced with an approved backflow prevention assembly.
      (7)   The installer is responsible to make sure a backflow prevention
assembly is working properly upon installation and is required to furnish the
following information to the town’s Water Department within ten days after a
reduced pressure principle backflow preventer (RP), double check valve assembly
(DCVA), pressure vacuum breaker (PVB), double check detector assembly (DCDA),
or reduced pressure principle detector assembly (RDDA) is installed:
         (a)   Service address where assembly is located;
         (b)   Owner and address, if different from service address;
         (c)   Description of assembly’s location;
         (d)   Date of installation;
         (e)   Installer, include name, plumbing company represented, tester
certification number and project permit number;
         (f)   Type of assembly, size of assembly;
         (g)   Manufacturer, model number, serial number, test results/report;
         (h)   Meter number;
         (I)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, provisions
shall be made for a parallel installation of backflow, preventer when the
assembly is in need of testing, repair, or replacement;
         (j)   The consumer shall, upon notification, install the appropriate
containment assembly not to exceed the following time frame:
            1.   Health hazard: 30 days, but may vary as determined by the ORC
of the system; and
            2.   Non-health hazard: 90 days.
         (k)   Following installation, all reduced pressure principle backflow
preventers (RP). Double check valve assemblies (DCDA), or reduced pressure
principle detector assemblies (RPDA), or reduced pressure principle detector
assemblies (RPDA), are required to be tested by a state certified backflow
prevention assembly tester within ten days and annually thereafter.
   (H)   Testing and repair of assemblies.
      (1)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies shall be made by a state-
certified backflow prevention assembly tester at the consumer’s expense. Such
test is to be conducted upon installation and annually thereafter or at a
frequency established by town regulations. A record of all testing and repairs
is to be retained by the consumer. Copies of the records must be provided to
the town’s Water Department within ten business days after the completion of
any testing and/or repair work.
      (2)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing or routine inspection by
the owner or by the town these repairs must be completed within a specified
time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In no case shall this time period
exceed:
         (a)   Heath hazard facilities: 14 days; and
         (b)   Non-health hazard facilities: 21 days.
      (3)   All backflow prevention assemblies with test cocks are required to
be tested annually or at frequency established by the town’s regulations.
Testing requires a water shutdown usually lasting five to 20 minutes. For
facilities that require an uninterrupted supply of water, and when it is not
possible to provide water service from two separate meters, provisions shall be
made for a parallel installation of backflow prevention assemblies.
      (4)   All certified backflow prevention assembly tester must obtain and
employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been evaluated
and/or approved by the town. All testing equipment shall be registered with the
town’s Water Department. All test equipment shall be checked for accuracy
annually, at a minimum, calibrated, if necessary, a certified to the town as to
such accuracy and calibration, employing a calibration method acceptable to the
town.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified tester to submit
any record to the town which is false or incomplete in any material respect. It
shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified tester to fail to submit to the
town any record which is required by this section. Such violations may result
in enforcement actions.
   (I)   Facilities requiring protection.
      (1)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the
service line to any premises that the town has identified as having a potential
for backflow.
      (2)   The following types of facilities or services have been identified
by the town as having a potential for backflow of non-potable water into the
public water supply system. Therefore, an approved backflow prevention assembly
will be required on all such services according to the degree of hazard
present. Other types of facilities or services not listed below may also be
required to install approved backflow prevention assemblies if determined
necessary by the town. As a minimum requirement, all nonresidential services
will be required to install a double check valve assembly, unless otherwise
listed in this section. The installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly or method other than those specified by this section can be allowed
only by the approval of the town’s Public Works Director:
         (a)   DCVA: Double check valve assembly;
         (b)   RP: Reduced pressure principle assembly;
         (c)   DCDA: Double check detector assembly;
         (d)   RPDA: Reduced pressure detector assembly;
         (e)   AG: Air gap; and
         (f)   PVB: Pressure vacuum breaker.
Facilities/Services Type of Backflow Prevention Assembly
                                                                               Type of
Facilities/Services                                                            Backflow
                                                                               Prevention
                                                                               Assembly
Aircraft and missile plants                                                    RP
Automotive plants                                                              RP
Automotive services stations, dealerships, and the like:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         DCVA
Auxiliary water systems:
   Approved public/private water supply                                     DCVA
   Unapproved public/private water supply                                   AG
   Used water and industrial fluids                                         RP
Bakeries:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         CVA
Beauty shops/barber shops:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         DCVA
Beverage bottling plants                                                       RPZ
Breweries                                                                      RP
Buildings: hotels, apartment houses, public and private buildings, or other
structures having unprotected cross-connections:
   (Over five stories) All                                                  RP
   (Under five stories) Health hazard                                       RP
   (Under five stories) No health hazard                                    DCVA
Canneries, packing houses, and rendering plants                                RP
Chemical plants (manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment           RP
Chemically contaminated water systems                                          RP
Commercial car wash facilities                                                 RPZ
Commercial greenhouses                                                         RP
Commercial sales establishment (department stores, malls, and the like):
   Health hazards                                                           RP
   No health hazards                                                        DCVA
Concrete/asphalt plants                                                        RP
Dairies and cold storage plants                                                RP
Dye works                                                                      RP
Film laboratories                                                              RPZ
Fire systems:
   Systems three-fourths to two inch:
      Health hazard: (booster pumps, foam, antifreeze solutions, and the RPDA)
      No health hazards                                                  DCVA
   Systems two and one-half inches to ten inches or larger:
      Health hazard (booster pups, foam, antifreeze solution, and the likRPDA
      No health hazard                                                   DCVA
Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy
facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics, and veterinary    RP
hospitals
Industrial facilities:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         DCVA
Laundries:
   Health hazard (i.e.; dry cleaners)                                       RP
   No health hazard                                                         RPZ
Lawn irrigation systems (split taps)                                           RP
Metal manufacturing, clearing, processing, and fabricating plants              RP
Mobile home parks:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         DCVA
Oil and gas production, storage, or transmission properties                    RP
Paper and paper products plants                                                RP
Pest control (exterminating and fumigating)                                    RP
Plating plants                                                                 RP
Power plants                                                                   RP
Radioactive materials or substances plants or facilities handling              RP
Restaurants:
   Health hazard                                                            RP
   No health hazard                                                         DCVA
Restricted, classified or other closed facilities                              RP
Rubber plants (natural or synthetic)                                           RP
Sand and gravel plants                                                         RP
Schools and colleges                                                           RP
Sewage and storm drain facilities                                              RP
Swimming pools                                                                 RP
Waterfront facilities and industries                                           RP
 
      (3)   All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection an
approval by the town.
   (J)   Connection with unapproved sources of supply.
      (1)   No personal shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of
water not approved by the state’s Department of Environmental and Natural
Resources to the water system supplied by the town. Any such connection allowed
by the town must be in conformance with the backflow prevention requirements of
this section.
      (2)   In the event of contamination of pollution of a public or consumer
potable water system the consumer shall notify the town immediately in order
that appropriate measures, may be taken to overcome and eliminate the
contamination or pollution.
   (K)   Fire protection systems.
      (1)   All connection for fire protection systems connected with the
public water system, two inches and smaller, shall be protected with an
approved double check valve assembly as a minimum requirement. All fire systems
using toxic additives or booster pumps shall be protected by and approved
refaced pressure principal assembly at the point of delivery.
      (2)   All connection for fire protection systems connected with the
public water systems greater than two inches shall be protected with an
approved double check detector assembly as a minimum requirement. All fire
protection system using toxic or hazardous additives or booster pumps shall be
protected by an approved reduced pressure principle detector assembly at the
point of delivery.
      (3)   All backflow prevention assemblies installed on fire lines shall be
installed within 100 feet of the consumer’s tap to the town’s water main
serving the facility unless otherwise approved by the town.
      (4)   All existing backflow prevention assemblies two and one-half inches
and larger installed on fire protection systems that were installed on fire
protection system that were initially approved by the town shall be allowed to
remain on the premises, as long as they are properly maintained, tested, and
repaired as required by this section. If however, the existing assembly must be
replaced or it can no longer be repaired, or in the event of proved water theft
through an unmetered source, the consumer shall be required to install an
approved double check detector assembly or reduced pressure principle detector
assembly.
(Prior Code, § 15-2) (Ord. passed 7-22-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In addition to charging violators of this chapter with a misdemeanor
offense under the provisions of G.S. § 14-4, this chapter may also be enforced
by appropriate equitable remedies, including mandatory injunction, issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction as provided by G.S. § 160A-175(d) and (e).
   (B)   The owner, manager, supervisor, or person in charge of any
installation found not be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be notified in writing specifying the nature of the violation and the
corrective action to betaken within the time given.
   (C)   The owner, manager, supervisor, or person in charge of any
installation which remains in noncompliance after the time prescribe in the
initial notification, as outlined in division (D) below, shall be considered in
violation of this chapter, and may be issued a notice of violation (NOV) by the
town. The NOV shall be sent by registered mail and shall specify the nature of
the violation and the provision of this chapter violated, and further notify
the offender that the civil penalty for such violation is as set forth in §
50.99(B), and is to be paid to the town within 29 days. If the penalty
prescribed in this chapter is not paid within the time allowed, the town may
initiate a civil action in the nature of a debt and recover the sums set forth
in §
50.99 plus the cost of the action
   (D)   If, in the judgment of the town, any owner, manager, supervisor, or
person in charge of any installation found to be in noncompliance with the
provisions of this chapter neglects his, her, or their responsibility to
correct the violation, such neglect may result in discontinuance of water
service until compliance is achieved.
   (E)   Enforcement of this program shall be administered by the Public Works
Director of the town.
   (F)   Request for extension of time shall be made in writing to the Public
Works Director of the town. All other appeals shall be made in accordance with
the following procedures.
      (1)   Adjudicatory hearings. A consumer assessed a civil penalty under
this section shall have the right to an adjudicator hearing officer designated
by the Public Works Director of the town upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the Public Works Director
of the town within 30 days following notice of final decision to assess a civil
penalty. Unless such demand is made within the time specified in this chapter,
the decision on the civil penalty assessment shall be final and binding.
      (2)   Appeal hearings. Any decision of the town hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicator hearing held under division (F)(1) above may be
appealed by any party to the town’s Board of Commissioners upon filing a
written demand within ten days of receipt of notice of decision. Hearings held
under this section shall be conducted in accordance with the town hearing
procedures. Failure to make written demand within the time specified in this
division (F) shall bar further appeal. The town shall make a decision on the
appeal with 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a
written copy of its decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (F)
(2) above, the town shall prepare an official record of the case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other evidence introduced;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, than a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-3) (Ord. passed 7-22-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 UNAUTHORIZED TAMPERING WITH WATER METER.
   (A)   The unauthorized tampering with or altering the condition of water
meters installed by the town anywhere within the town’s water system is
prohibited.
   (B)   Authorization for altering the condition of or turning on and off town
water meters is to be granted in the sole discretion of the Board of
Commissioners for the town, upon majority vote in regular sessions of such
Board.
   (C)   Any person whose water has been cut off by the town and who is found,
after the water has been cut off, to be receiving water from the town without
the prior approval and knowledge of the town’s Water Department, shall have the
water again cut off and shall be additionally liable to the town for the
penalty of $75 to be added to the cost of the water used between the initial
cut off and the subsequent cut off. Any such person who damages a water meter
after tampering with such meter shall be also be responsible for the cost of
repairing such water meter, in addition to any other costs and penalties
discussed herein. Failure to pay such penalty within ten days shall, in
addition to the penalty stated above, constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such
person to fine or imprisonment as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 15-4) (Ord. passed 1-7-1971) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 FILLING AND DRAINING SWIMMING POOLS.
   The Director of Public Works may regulate the hours for filling of pools,
and no pool shall be drained during periods of rainfall.
(Prior Code, § 15-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
Cross-reference:
   Swimming pool construction requirements, see §
150.27
   Swimming pool construction, use, and inspections, see §
91.60
   Swimming pool permits required, see §
150.41
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.20 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE.
   All services are classified under one category to include residential,
schools, churches and commercial users.
(Prior Code, § 15-21) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.21 RATE SCHEDULE AND TAP-ON FEES.
   (A)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   The rates per gallon of water usage are on file at the office of
the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Meter connections made or discontinued between billings will be
billed at regular monthly rates.
      (3)   (a)   Apartments, motels, mobile home parks, or multifamily
residences may be supplied by one master meter when approved by the Board of
Commissioners. If a master meter is used, the service charge for water shall be
based on the total consumption for the total amount of units. The monthly
service charge shall apply regardless of whether the single-family residential
unit is occupied or unoccupied.
         (b)   For example: the total meter reading will be divided by the
total number of units and this amount applied to the fee schedule. The total
monthly fee so determined per unit shall then be multiplied by the total number
of units to obtain the monthly service charge, which shall not be less than the
minimum rate times the number of units.
   (B)   Tap-on fees.
      (1)   Tap-on fees are on file at the office of the Town Clerk.
      (2)   All taps to the town’s water line will be made by or under the
direct supervision of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 15-22) (Ord. passed 3-7-1974; Ord. passed 7-1-1981; Ord. passed
10-18-1984; Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. Passed 6-28-1990; Ord. passed 11-16-
2000)
§ 50.22 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Service will be supplied only to those who have completed and filed
application with the Town Clerk. Official application blanks may be obtained
from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Users will make application for service, in person, at the Town Hall
and at the same time make the deposit guarantee required by §
50.23.
   (C)   The town may reject any application for service not available under a
standard rate or which involves excessive service cost, or which may affect the
supply of service to other consumers or for other good and sufficient reasons.
   (D)   The town may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service previously supplied at any
location, provided that when the owner of the premises has been served water
and has not paid for same, the town shall not be required to render service to
anyone at said location where the water was used until said water bill has been
paid. The town will not be required to render water service to a rental unit if
the owner of said unit is delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service
previously supplied at any location within the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-23) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.23 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All users will make a minimum cash deposit of $100, except that
commercial users who are located outside the town limits shall have a minimum
deposit of $500. Deposits shall not draw interest.
   (B)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished.
   (C)   A separate deposit is required for each meter installed.
   (D)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed only at the
Town Hall, with no interest.
   (E)   Where the town finds that the request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town may require the applicant for refund to produce the
deposit receipt properly endorsed.
(Prior Code, § 15-24) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.24 TAP-ON FEE.
   (A)   The tap-on fee, as provided for in the rate schedule in §
50.21(B), shall be made for each meter installed. Each meter requires a
separate meter reading sheet, and each meter reading shall cover a separate and
individual account.
   (B)   (1)   Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only.
      (2)    Each consumer’s service must be separately metered at a single
delivery and metering point.
      (3)   Each commercial unit and each storeroom or stall used for business
purposes shall have a separate meter.
      (4)   All commercial use, including storerooms and stalls for business
purposes, shall be metered separately from any residential use and vice versa,
whether now in service or to be installed in the future.
(Prior Code, § 15-25) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.25 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution line runs immediately adjacent and
parallel to the property to be serviced, and for which a tap-on fee then in
effect for each size of meter will be charged.
   (B)   The town may install its meter at the property line or, at the town’s
option, in a location mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly designated
to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s
lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (F)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water or the use of water on the consumer’s premises, unless
such damage results directly from negligence on the part of the town. The town
shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in
the piping, fixtures or appliances on the consumer’s premises. The town shall
not be responsible for negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control
of the town resulting in any interruption of service.
   (G)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
(Prior Code, § 15-26) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.26 CONSUMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
   (B)   If the consumer’s piping on consumer’s premises is so arranged that
the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of metering
will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the
consumer’s side of the meter; the town to provide a like valve on the town’s
side of such meter.
   (D)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at the consumer’s expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the town’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the state’s Board of Health.
   (E)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his, her, or their agents or
employees, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by
the consumer to the town and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed
by the consumer.
   (F)   The amount of such loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be
added to the consumer’s bill, and if not paid, service may be discontinued by
the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-27) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.27 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Each consumer shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted or conveyed
to the town a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any property owned or
controlled by the consumer wherever said perpetual easement and right-of-way is
necessary for the town’s water facilities and lines so as to be able to furnish
service to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 15-28) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.28 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than three days notice must be given in person or in writing,
at the Town Hall, to discontinue service for a change in occupancy.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is
longest.
(Prior Code, § 15-29) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.29 METER READING, BILLING, AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered as follows:
      (1)   Meters will be read by the last day of the previous month;
      (2)   Bills will be mailed out on or about the first day of the following
month; and
      (3)   The town reserves the right to vary the dates or length of period
covered, temporarily or permanently if necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water will be figured in accordance with the town’s
published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter readings.
   (C)   Charge for service commences when the meter is installed and
connection made, whether used or not.
   (D)   Readings from different meters will not be combined for billing,
irrespective of the fact that said meters may be for the same or different
premises, or for the same or different consumers, or for the same or different
services.
   (E)   (1)   Bills are due when rendered and are payable at the Town Hall by
the fifteenth of the month in which they are rendered.
      (2)   The grace period runs from the fifteenth of the billing month until
9:00 a.m. on the twenty-fifth of the billing month or the next business day if
the twenty-fifth falls on a weekend or holiday. If the bill is not paid by that
date and time a $15 late fee is added.
      (3)   If the bill is still not paid by 9:00 a.m. the first of the
following month, water service will be disconnected and a reconnect fee of $25
will be added and must be paid in full in order to reconnect service.
      (4)   If reconnection is after hours, weekend, or holidays, a $40
reconnection fee must be paid in full in order to reconnect service.
      (5)   No reconnections will be done between 9:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
      (6)   If payment is received by the town after 9:00 a.m. on the date
disconnection is authorized, but before service is actually disconnected, then
a disconnection processing fee of $25 will be added.
      (7)   Payments will need to be made at the Town Hall.
      (8)   No payments will be taken by any town employee other than office
personnel.
      (9)   If a user feels that this notice has been delivered in error or
that discontinuance of service is otherwise not warranted, he, she, or they is
entitled to be heard by the Public Works Director (by phone or, at his, her, or
their request, in person) prior to the date service is scheduled to be
discontinued. Users may contact the Public Works Director by calling 910-281-
3124.
   (F)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from
becoming delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
(Prior Code, § 15-30) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.30 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE, NOTICE, AND HEARING.
   (A)   When services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit will be
refunded.
   (B)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the consumer; but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the
bill, the town may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by
law for collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, redeposit made, and a service charge is paid for
each meter reconnected. The service charge is on file at the office of the Town
Clerk.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer’s willful disregard of the town’s rules;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; or
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
   (E)    The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
   (F)   (1)   Prior to discontinuing service for nonpayment of bills as
provided in §
50.29(E), the town shall notify a consumer of the town’s intent to discontinue
service at least two working days before the scheduled date of discontinuance.
      (2)   Except in emergency situations or when advance notice would prevent
the effective enforcement of this chapter, the town shall provide similar
notice prior to discontinuing service as a sanction for fraud or abuse or a
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The notice required by this section shall be deemed sufficient if
written notice is left in a conspicuous place at the premises where service is
proposed to be discontinued.
   (H)   The notice required by this section shall inform the consumer that the
consumer is entitled to be heard by the Public Works Director prior to the
scheduled discontinuance of service as to whether the discontinuance is
warranted under the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The hearing may be held by phone or, at the request of the
consumer, the hearing may take place at the office of the Public Works
Director.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted informally. The consumer shall be
given every reasonable opportunity to bring to the attention of the Public
Works Director information that bears upon the reasons for the proposed
termination.
      (3)   The Public Works Director shall inform the consumer of his, her, or
their decision at the conclusion of the hearing, or at such later time prior to
discontinuance of service as the Public Works Director deems appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 15-31) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.31 COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the consumer believes his, her, or their bill to be in error,
he, she, or they shall present his, her, or their claim, in person, at the Town
Hall before the bill becomes delinquent.
      (2)   Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not
be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as heretofore provided.
      (3)   The consumer may pay such bill under protest and said payment shall
not prejudice his, her, or their claim.
   (B)   The town will make special meter readings at the request of the
consumer for a fee of $5 provided, however, that if such special reading
discloses that the meter was over-read, no charge will be made.
   (C)   Meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to
the town of the actual cost to the town of making the test provided; however,
that if the meter is found to over-register beyond 5% of the correct volume, no
charge will be made.
   (D)   If a meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for any cause,
the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his, her, or
their previous bills and/or from other proper data.
   (E)   The town’s water leak adjustment policy is as follows:
      (1)   The consumer shall notify Town Hall immediately or within 30 days
of when the bill is received if he, she, or they feels the usage for the period
is excessive. Water leak has to be three times the average before an adjustment
will be considered.
      (2)   Leak adjustments are for occupied residential dwellings only. No
leak adjustments for irrigation. No leak adjustments for newly built
residential dwellings for the first year. From this date December 17, 2020,
leak adjustments will only be given for consumers with no more than two
households on a single meter.
      (3)   If there is a leak which requires a plumber, the consumer should be
sure to keep his, her, or their bill. If the consumer is able to repair it
himself, herself, or themself, he, she, or they must show receipts of materials
used.
      (4)   The consumer must be in good standing and current. Pay the bill on
time, and if an adjustment is due, there will be a credit given on the account.
      (5)   The proper procedure to follow for an adjustment is to make a
request to the Board of Commissioners in writing, along with a copy of the
plumber’s bill or a copy of the material bill if done by the consumer.
      (6)   The town’s Board of Commissioners will review the request and
determine if the consumer is eligible for a leak adjustment.
      (7)   Adjustments for water leaks will be granted one time every year, 12
months. In case there is a second leak on any meter in the 12 months that is
greater than the first, the town will allow the consumer to pay the full amount
on the first leak and adjust the second. In the event the leak expands into the
next billing cycle without notice given to the town it will be one adjustment.
      (8)   In the event a consumer experiences more than two leaks in three
years that require an adjustment to be eligible for future adjustments they
must explain to the Board what repairs have been made to ensure no further
leaks occur for that residence.
   (F)   Adjustments will be determined by the following steps:
      (1)   The leakage amount of water will be billed as follows for in-town
consumers:
 
0-15,000 gallons        $4.32 per 1,000 gallons
15,001-40,000 gallons   $4.80 per 1,000 gallons
40,001 gallons and over $10.08 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   Out of town rates will be:
 
0-15,000 gallons        $6.48 per 1,000 gallons
15,001-40,000 gallons   $7.22 per 1,000 gallons
40,000 gallons and over $12.72 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Oakwood and the Pines will be:
 
0-15,000 gallons        $6.71 per 1,000 gallons
15,001-40,000 gallons   $7.45 per 1,000 gallons
40,001 gallons and over $12.77 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (G)   Adjustments will be determined by the following steps:
      (1)   Add the total of usage for the last 12 previous bills;
      (2)   Divide by 12 for average per month;
      (3)   Subtract average from leak bill. Divide the difference by one and
one-half for the adjustment;
      (4)   Take adjustment amount put amount in “What if Calculation” to get
the amount owed for the adjustment amount;
      (5)   Subtract adjustment from leak bill and this will give what amount
is owed; and
      (6)   Consumers may make payments:
 
Under $500      Over six months
$500 - $1,000   Over one-year period
$1,000 - $5,000 Over three-year period
Above $5,000    Over five-year period
 
(Prior Code, § 15-32) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.32 REQUESTS FOR EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Any property owner, or owners, desiring water or sanitary sewer
service shall apply in writing to the Town Board requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service or both.
      (2)   No request for the extension of services shall be considered unless
submitted in writing in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The town may require the applicant to submit as part of the written
application such information, plans or other data as may be required to
adequately determine if the requirements of this section are to be met.
   (C)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (D)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-33) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000)
§ 50.33 GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following.
   (A)   (1)   The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or
sanitary sewer main shall be determined by a licensed engineer and must comply
with the state’s Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources
(DEHNR) rules governing public water systems.
      (2)   In general, the minimum distance for extensions shall be one
platted block, or in the case of water mains from the main line valve to valve
and in the case of sanitary sewer extension from manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by a licensed engineer
and must comply with the state’s Department of Environmental Health and Natural
Resources (DEHNR) rules governing public water systems.
   (C)   All water and sewer line extensions shall be approved by the state’s
Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources (DEHNR) before any
construction of the facilities can begin.
(Prior Code, § 15-34) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.34 FINANCING EXTENSIONS WITHIN AND OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   Financing extensions within corporate limits.
      (1)   Extensions to approved subdivisions or developed property.
         (a)   When application is received requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the town, and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the town,
the Director of Public Works or other person designated by the Town Board shall
estimate the cost of the project and present the application for such
extension, the estimated cost and other required information to the Town Board
for approval. If the application is approved by the Town Board and subject to
the availability of funds, the town shall install or have installed by contract
under its supervision the extensions which have been approved, and such
extension shall be financed in accordance with division (A)(2) below;
         (b)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has
been completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, 75% of the total
cost of such water or sanitary sewer extension or both shall be assessed
against the property owners whose property abuts upon such extension at an
equal rate per front foot in accordance with and under the authority granted to
the town by G.S. § 160A-239.2. The remaining 25% of the total cost of such
extensions shall be borne by the town from funds appropriated for this purpose.
         (c)   Any property owner or owners shall have the opportunity to pay
his, her, or their proportionate share of the cost of such extensions after the
assessment roll is confirmed rather than paying his, her, or their share in
equal annual installments with interest as required by the statute.
      (2)   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivisions.
         (a)   When an application is received requesting the extension of
water or sanitary sewer service or both to proposed developments or
subdivisions within the corporate limits which have not been approved by the
Town Board, the Director of Public Works or other person designated by the Town
Board shall estimate the cost of the project and present the application for
such extension, the estimated cost and other required information to the Town
Board for their approval. If the application is approved and subject to the
approval of the development or subdivision and by the town, and subject to the
availability of funds, the town will install or have installed by contract
under its supervision such extensions which shall be financed in accordance
with division (A)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner
or owners shall advance to the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the
total estimated cost of the proposed extensions. Upon receipt of such funds, a
written contract shall be entered into by and between the town and the property
owner or owners, under which the town will use such funds upon the following
terms and conditions.
            1.   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the town
for which a separate accounting will be made.
            2.   At the time construction of the extension is completed and the
total cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited exceeds 100% of the
total cost, then that portion in excess of the total cost will be refunded to
the owner or owners without interest. If the amount deposited is less than 100%
of the total cost, the owner or owners shall pay such additional amount to the
town and this condition shall be a part of the written contract.
            3.   In lieu of depositing the required funds, the owner or owners
may provide a surety bond or some other form of security that will insure
payment to the town of the owners’ proportionate share of the cost of extension
in accordance with this section.
            4.   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
or owners who pay 100% of the total cost of extension under the requirements of
this section except as provided for in division (A)(2)(b)2. above.
      (3)   Exception authorized: Nothing in this section shall prevent the
Town Board from extending water or sanitary sewer mains or both within the
corporate limits on their own motion without receipt of an application from
property owners, and to assess the cost of such extensions in accordance with
division (A)(1) above, when, in the opinion of the Town Board, the general
public interest demands such extension of service.
(Prior Code, 15-35)
   (B)   Filing extensions outside corporate limits.
      (1)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the
corporate limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same
requirements as provided for in §§
50.05 and
50.06.
      (2)   (a)   If an application is approved by the Town Board, the owner or
owners shall be required to pay 100% of the total cost of all extension.
Provided, the town may participate to the extent agreed upon by the Town Board
in the cost of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains required
to serve the project.
         (b)   No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation and all water and
sewer lines connected to the town system and located outside the corporate
limits shall become the property of the town at the time such facilities are
connected.
      (3)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner or owners
shall deposit with the town funds in an amount equal to 100% of the total
estimated cost of such extensions. Upon receipt of such funds a written
contract shall be entered into by and between the town and the property owner
or owners in accordance with the requirements of this section. Such contract
shall provide that in the event the funds deposited exceed the amount of the
total extension cost when completed, then that portion in excess of the total
cost will be refunded to the owner or owners without interest.
      (4)   In lieu of depositing funds the owner or owners may execute a
surety bond guaranteeing payment for such extension or the owner or owners may
have such extension work performed under private contract with the approval of
the Town Board, provided, the work is to be performed in accordance with all
construction requirements of the town and subject to inspection and approval of
the town.
      (5)   In the event the property for which application has been made for
water or sewer service is contiguous to the corporate limits and the owner or
owners of such property agree to annexation and in the event such property is
annexed to the town, extensions may be made to such property and the cost
thereof financed in accordance with the requirements of divisions (B)(1) and
(B)(2) above, whichever is applicable.
(Prior Code, § 15-36)
(Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 SPECIFICATIONS AND OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions
of this chapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications and other requirements of the town.
   (B)   All facilities installed under the provisions of this chapter, whether
within or outside the corporate limits shall become the sole property of the
town and under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever
at the time such facilities are connected to the town system.
   (C)   When required, the property owner or owners shall grant to the town
such utility easements as the town may require. In addition, a deed to the town
for water and/or sewer facilities installed which are located outside the
corporate limits, the cost of which is borne by individual property owners,
shall be executed prior to the time any extensions provide for in this chapter
are connected to the town systems.
(Prior Code, § 15-37) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.36 ABRIDGEMENT OR MODIFICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the town except as it shall have been agreed upon in
writing, signed and accepted by the acknowledged Mayor and Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   No modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be
made by any agent of the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-38) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.37 SEWER FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-319, no sewer service shall be provided within
the corporate limits of the town without a franchise granted by the town. For
the purposes of this section, the term SEWER SERVICE shall man the provision of
wastewater/sewage collection and treatment facilities using pipes located
within public rights-of-way. This term shall not include the installation,
maintenance or removal of septic tanks.
   (B)   Any entity already providing sewer service within the corporate limits
of the town as of the effective date of this chapter shall not install any new
pipes or other facilities of any kind for sewer service within the corporate
limits of the town without first obtaining a franchise from the town.
   (C)   Any entity already providing sewer service within the corporate limits
of the town as of the effective date of this chapter shall have one year from
the effective date of the chapter to obtain a franchise from the town.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to sewer services provided by the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-39) (Ord. passed 11-21-1985; Ord. passed 11-16-2000) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any offender who shall continue any violations beyond the time limit
provided for in the aforementioned NOV in §
50.04 shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. Each
day in which a violation of any provision of this chapter shall occur or
continue shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Failure of a consumer or certified tester to submit any record
required by this chapter or the submission of falsified reports/records may
result in a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per violation. If a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester submits falsified records to the town, the
town shall take the necessary action to revoke certifications to test backflow
prevention assemblies within the potable water system for a time period not to
exceed one year. The tester will then be required to complete an approved
certification course to acquire a new certification. Falsification made to
records/reports after becoming recertified shall result in the permanent
revocation of the backflow testing certification, in addition to a civil
penalty as provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-3) (Ord. passed 7-22-1986)
CHAPTER 51: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Water shortage response, declaration, and conservation
   
51.04   Applications, violations, enforcement, and remedies
   
51.05   Stage 1: Voluntary conservation
   
51.06   Stage 2: Moderate mandatory conservation
   
51.07   Stage 3: Severe mandatory conservation
   
51.08   Stage 4: Emergency mandatory conservation
   
51.09   Stage 5: Rationing
   
51.10   Scope and duration
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to protect the health, welfare,
and safety of the citizens of the town by assuring that available water
resources are put to reasonable beneficial uses to avoid depletion of the
town’s water supply during a water shortage. This chapter shall be liberally
construed to effectuate such purpose and intent. This chapter is authorized and
enacted pursuant to the statutory authority cited above.
(Prior Code, § 15-51)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and never directory.
   CONSUMER. Any person who is an owner, occupant, or user of real property to
which water is supplied by the town. The term shall also refer to any person
who uses water supplied by the town, or to any person who is billed for the
supply of water from the town, or to any person who is responsible for or
otherwise has the right or permission to utilize the supply of water provided
by the town.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town.
   GOVERNING BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the town.
   PERSON. Any natural person, any group of persons, any firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company, governmental entity, or any other
organization or entity.
   PUBLIC WORKS. The town’s Department of Public Works.
   TOWN. The Town of Pinebluff, North Carolina.
   WATER. All water available to the town for treatment by virtue of the town’s
water rights or withdrawal permits and any treated water introduced by the town
into its potable water supply and distribution system, including water
purchased or offered for sale.
   WATER SHORTAGE. Is deemed to exist when any one or all of the following
difficulties are being encountered:
      (1)   The ordinary demands and requirements of water consumers served by
the town cannot be satisfied without depleting the water supply to or below a
critical level, the level at which the continued availability of water for
human consumption, sanitation and fire protection is jeopardized;
      (2)   When there is inadequate water treatment capability; or
      (3)   When water transmission capability is disrupted or inadequate.
(Prior Code, § 15-52)
§ 51.03 WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE, DECLARATION, AND CONSERVATION.
   (A)   (1)   The existence and severity of a water shortage shall be
determined initially by the Director of Public Works, taking into account the
water levels of available sources of supply, available/usable storage on hand;
drawdown rates, the projected supply capability, outlook for precipitation,
existence of drought conditions, daily water use patterns, and availability of
water from other sources.
      (2)   Upon determining that water conservation measures are necessary to
adequately address the water shortage, the director may declare any stage of
water conservation described herein to be in force.
      (3)   Declaration of any stage of water conservation affecting either the
Town of Southern Pines shall only be made after the Director has consulted with
the manager of the Town of Southern Pines Public Utilities Director prior to
the declaration or as soon as practicable thereafter.
      (4)   Except in the case of an unforeseen emergency, prior to the initial
imposition of a water conservation stage, the Director shall report to the
governing board regarding the Administrations’ intent to impose water
conservation stages.
   (B)   (1)   Following such initial report to the governing board, the
director may impose such stages or stages of water conservation as may be
deemed necessary to protect the town’s water supplies.
      (2)   The imposition of each stage of water conservation shall be
reported to the governing board as soon as possible following such imposition.
      (3)   The Director or the governing board may terminate any stage of
water conservation upon determining that it is no longer necessary.
(Prior Code, § 15-53)
§ 51.04 APPLICATIONS, VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Application. This chapter shall apply to all water consumers of the
town.
   (B)   Violation.
      (1)   In the event that the director shall declare one or more stages of
water conservation as set forth herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to
use or permit use of water supplied by the town in violation of any mandatory
restrictions instituted.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to investigate
violations of the mandatory restrictions.
      (3)   Whenever the town has reasonable cause to believe that a person is
violating any of the provisions of this section or any policy adopted
hereunder, the Director of Public Works shall immediately notify that person of
the violation by affixing a written notice of the violation to the property
where the violation occurred and personally delivering or mailing such notice
to the billing address of the consumer of record.
      (4)   Such notice shall describe the violation, order that it be
corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
public works director determines is reasonable under the circumstances and warn
that more severe measures, such as civil penalties, criminal charges or
termination of water service may be brought, assessed or imposed.
      (5)   All consumers shall cease any violation of the mandatory
restrictions upon the order of the Director of Public Works. Notice under this
section is effective upon posting of the property.
      (6)   If the order is not complied with, within the time period, the town
may undertake enforcement action as outlined in this section.
   (C)   Enforcement. Any consumer within the town limits who violates any
provision of the chapter, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order
made hereunder, shall be subject to any one, all, or a combination of the
remedies described below, or appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court
of competent jurisdiction. This chapter may be enforced against out-of-town
consumers by discontinuance of service.
   (D)   Equitable relief.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by any appropriate
equitable remedy, including a mandatory or prohibitory injunction, and an order
of abatement as authorized by G.S. § 160A-175.
      (2)   The town may commence a civil action in the appropriate division of
the general court of justice for enforcement in accordance with the provisions
of G.S. § 160A-175.
      (3)   It shall not be a defense to the town’s application for equitable
relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (E)   Discontinuance of service. The town may discontinue water in
accordance with the provisions of §
50.30.
   (F)   Penalty not a substitute remedy. The imposition of one or more
penalties for any violation shall not excuse any violation or permit it to
continue. Payment of fines and/or civil penalties will not authorize a consumer
to return to the least severe penalty for subsequent violations. In other
words, if a consumer comes into compliance after two offenses, the next offense
shall be deemed a third offense rather than a first offense.
   (G)   Warning. The Director shall have authority, depending on the
circumstances, to issue a warning for a first offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-54)
§ 51.05 STAGE 1: VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Consumers shall be encouraged to observe water conservation measures to
reduce the wasting of water as follows:
   (A)   Check plumbing, faucets, and toilets for leaks, and if necessary
repair;
   (B)   Store drinking water in the refrigerator to avoid trying to run it
cool at the tap;
   (C)   Use shower for bathing purposes or reduce the depth of water used for
tub baths. Limit showers to five minutes where possible;
   (D)   Refrain from running faucets while shaving, rinsing dishes, or
brushing teeth;
   (E)   Install water flow restrictive devices in showerheads;
   (F)   Install water-saving devices such as plastic bottles or commercial
units in toilet tanks;
   (G)   Review water uses and where feasible install recycle systems,
particularly commercial and industrial consumers;
   (H)   Limit the use of clothes washers and dishwashers, and when used,
operate fully loaded;
   (I)   Reduce the flushing of toilets to the minimum whenever practical;
   (J)   Limit lawn watering to only when grass shows signs of withering and
apply water as slow as possible to achieve deep penetration;
   (K)   Limit shrubbery watering to the minimum, reusing household water when
possible;
   (L)   Limit car washing to the minimum;
   (M)   Limit wash downs of outside areas such as sidewalks, patios,
driveways, or other similar purposes;
   (N)   Limit hours of operation of water-cooled air conditioners where
possible; and
   (O)   Use biodegradable disposable dishes and utensils, both for residential
and commercial purposes, where feasible.
(Prior Code, § 15-55)
§ 51.06 STAGE 2: MODERATE MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Consumers shall be encouraged to observe the recommendations of Stage
1, and the level of the conservation effort shall be increased to require the
following mandatory measures.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Water lawns, grass, trees, shrubbery, flowers, golf greens or
vegetable gardens except between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight;
twice weekly;
      (2)   Introduce water into wading pools or swimming pools except to the
extent necessary to replenish losses due to evaporation or spillage, and
maintain operation of chemical feed equipment;
      (3)   Use water to wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios,
driveways, or for other similar purposes;
      (4)   Introduce water into any decorative fountain, pool; or pond except
where the water is recycled;
      (5)   Serve water in a restaurant or similar establishment, except upon
request;
      (6)   Use water for any unnecessary purpose or intentionally waste water;
or
      (7)   Wash the exterior of a motor vehicle except for commercial washing
or where a private well system is used.
   (C)   All industrial, manufacturing and commercial enterprises shall reduce
consumption with a goal reduction of at least 30%.
   (D)   Such enterprises shall document the specific efforts they have made to
reduce consumption.
(Prior Code, § 15-55) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 STAGE 3: SEVERE MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Consumers shall be encouraged to observe the conservation measures in
Stage 1 and required to continue observing the mandatory requirements in Stage
2.
   (B)   The level of the conservation effort shall increase to require the
following additional mandatory measures. No person shall:
      (1)   Water or sprinkle any lawn, grass, trees, or golf greens;
      (2)   Water any vegetable garden or ornamental shrubs;
      (3)   Fill and wading pool or swimming pool or replenish any filled pool;
      (4)   Make nonessential use of water for commercial or public use; and/or
      (5)   Operate water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment that do
not recycle cooling water, except when health and safety are adversely
affected.
   (C)   All industrial, manufacturing and commercial enterprises shall reduce
consumption with a goal reduction of at least 50%. Such enterprises shall
document the specific efforts they have made to reduce consumption.
(Prior Code, § 15-55) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 STAGE 4: EMERGENCY MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Consumers shall be encouraged to observe the conservation measures in
Stage 1 and required to continue observing the mandatory requirements in Stages
2 and 3.
   (B)   The level of the conservation effort shall increase to require the
following additional mandatory measures. No personal shall:
      (1)   Use water outside a structure except in an emergency involving
fire;
      (2)   Operate evaporative air conditioning units, which recycle water
except during the operating hours of the business;
      (3)   Use any swimming pool or wading pool; or
      (4)   Wash any motor vehicle, including commercial washing unless a
private well is used.
   (C)   In addition to the conservation measures enumerated above, consumers
shall use plates, glasses, cups and eating utensils that are disposable and
biodegradable.
(Prior Code, § 15-55) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 STAGE 5: RATIONING.
   (A)   Consumers shall be encouraged to observe the conservation measures in
Stage 1 and required to continue observing the mandatory requirements of Stages
2, 3, and 4.
   (B)   The level of the conservation effort shall increase to require the
following mandatory measures.
      (1)   Fire protection will be maintained, but where possible, tank trucks
shall use raw water.
      (2)   All industrial uses of water shall be prohibited.
      (3)   All other uses of water will be limited to those necessary to meet
minimum health and safety needs of the consumers as determined by the Director
of Public Works upon consultation with the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Failure to act in accordance therewith or use of water in any
prohibited manner, or any attempt to evade or avoid water-rationing
restrictions, shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 15-55) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 SCOPE AND DURATION.
   (A)   Water conservation measures shall be applicable to all users of the
system, including users located outside the town.
   (B)   Conservation measures shall be in force until they are terminated by
the Director of Public Works or the governing body.
   (C)   Notice of conservation measures shall be broadly reported to the
media, and shall, where feasible be included on all consumer’s utility bills.
(Prior Code, § 15-56)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Each day’s continuing violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
      (3)   The penalty for violation shall be a fine of $50 per occurrence or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution, violation of
this chapter may subject the violator or consumer to a civil penalty of $50 per
violation per day for so long as the violation exists, the first violation
(excluding any previous warnings), and $250 per violation per day for the
second and subsequent violations.
      (2)   Each day on which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute
a separate and distinct violation.
      (3)   The town shall serve a written citation on the violator, and the
consumer, if different, by personal delivery or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested or by any other means acceptable for service of
civil process.
      (4)   The citation shall describe the violation, shall specify the amount
of the civil penalty levied, and shall direct the violator to pay the civil
penalty to the town’s finance office within ten days of the date the citation
is received.
      (5)   If the violator fails to pay the civil penalty, the town may
institute a civil action in the nature of debt to recover the civil penalty.
(Prior Code, § 15-54)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
52.01   Garbage and refuse collection fees
   
52.02   Solid waste disposal fees
   
52.03   Leaving garbage containers on parkway
   
52.04   Yard debris
   
52.05   Collection of leaves
   
52.06   Metal and similar materials
   
52.07   Special collection
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   The charges for garbage and refuse collection shall be as set by the
Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   (B)   The charges in division (A) above shall apply to each unit within the
town.
      (1)   A unit is hereby defined as any trailer, residence, dwelling or
apartment occupied by a single-family or household; and excludes only
commercial and industrial buildings not occupied as a residence, and hotels and
motels for transient type occupancy.
      (2)   A separate unit charge shall apply for each family or household
occupancy of any structure.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial buildings not occupied as a residence, and
hotels and motels for transient type occupancy shall pay a fee as set by the
Board of Commissioners from time to time.
   (D)   The unit charges provided for in divisions (A) and (C) above shall be
billed monthly, shall be payable with the town water billing, and shall be
payable within 15 days from the date of billing. Such charges shall be a lien
upon the property involved and may be collected as provided by law.
   (E)   If such charges shall not be paid as provided in division (D) above,
then the town may discontinue further collection and removal of such garbage
and refuse from the unit involved. The further retention of such garbage and
refuse on the property involved shall be unlawful and shall subject the
resident of the unit and the owner of the properties to all applicable health
and sanitation regulations and laws.
(Prior Code, § 20-1) (Ord. passed 1-7-1982; Ord. passed 2-17-2000) Penalty, see
§
52.99
§ 52.02 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fee schedule is on file at the office of the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   Refuse fee billing and payment.
      (1)   Refuse fees shall be collected as part of the monthly utility
billing.
      (2)   Refuse fees will be waived in the case of vacant houses. A home is
considered VACANT if it is unoccupied (i.e. not inhabited) for a period of six
consecutive months or more. In order to qualify for a waiver of refuse fees,
the property owner or occupant must submit to the town, prior to vacating the
home, written notice requesting the fee waiver. The town staff may require that
the notice be submitted on a form provided by the town.
      (3)   Partial payments towards monthly utility bills shall be applied in
the following order:
         (a)   Penalties;
         (b)   Solid waste fee; and
         (c)   Water use charge.
   (C)   Businesses.
      (1)   Business pick-up shall be two times per week with a maximum of
three 30-gallon containers or three 30-gallon trash bags per pick-up.
      (2)   Businesses which require greater than three 30-gallon containers
two times per week pick-up shall be required to contract for dumpster pick-up
by a private waste hauler.
      (3)   Multifamily developments such as apartment complexes or duplexes
with greater than four residential units shall be treated as businesses
requiring dumpster service from a contract hauler.
   (D)   Residential. Residential pick-up shall be two times per week with a
maximum of three 30-gallon containers or three 30-gallon trash bags per pick-
up.
(Prior Code, § 20-2) (Ord. passed 8-19-1993; Ord. passed 2-17-2000)
§ 52.03 LEAVING GARBAGE CONTAINERS ON PARKWAY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes limits to the time during which
garbage containers (such as cans) may be left on the town parkways for the
purpose of garbage pickup. Garbage containers left beyond the allotted time are
deemed unnecessary and unsightly, and are injurious to the neat appearance of
the town.
   (B)   Details.
      (1)   On garbage collection days (Tuesdays and Fridays), residents of the
town must place their garbage cans, containers or plastic-tied bags of refuse
on the parkway near the street no earlier than 7:00 p.m. on Monday or Thursday
nights. Refuse will be picked up from the parkway near the street by refuse
collection personnel during the period 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday and
Friday.
      (2)   Residents must remove their garbage cans, containers or other
refuse from the parkway near the street no later than 7:00 a.m. Wednesday or
Saturday mornings. No visible garbage container will remain on the parkway
after 7:00 a.m. on the day after garbage collection.
(Prior Code, § 20-3) (Ord. passed 12-17-1987; Ord. passed 2-17-2000) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.04 YARD DEBRIS.
   (A)   Yard waste generated by normal lawn care that is separated and placed
at the curb shall be picked up by the town. Separation shall be as follows:
      (1)   Pine straw, pine cones, and leaves can be together;
      (2)   Vines separate;
      (3)   Sticks and twigs can be together; and
      (4)   Limbs and branches together need to be parallel to the street.
   (B)   (1)   Limbs and branches no larger than four inches in diameter and
ten feet in length will be picked up by the town no more than once a week per
household.
      (2)   The debris to be removed must be consistent with the vegetation
found on the property and be reasonable related to the quantity of plant
material the property can grow. They must be placed at the curb for pick up.
      (3)   Limbs and branches larger than four inches in diameter and longer
than six feet in length or stumps may be picked up after a fee is paid to the
town. The fee will be calculated by a town employee or agent following an
inspection based upon weight. If the fee is not paid, the limbs and/or yard
debris will not be picked up.
      (4)   An amount of limbs four feet high, ten feet long and six feet wide
is the most that can be put at the curb for pick up at any one time. If this
amount is exceeded, it will not be picked up.
   (C)   The contractor will remove its tree cuttings and tree removal debris.
CONTRACTORS are defined as persons of legal age whose derives income by
landscaping/gardening/pulpwood contractor.
   (D)   No land clearing debris will be picked up by the town.
   (E)   No building materials, demolition materials, shingles, or cross-ties
will be picked up by the town. The town truck may be used, but owner is
responsible for loading and payment of fee.
   (F)   No tree trunks, tree stumps, rocks, or masonry products will be picked
up by the town, same provision as division (E) above.
   (G)   The town shall collect scrap metal and appliances, and other metal
products for recycling. The town shall not collect appliances generated by a
commercial enterprise.
   (H)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots, except for limbs,
regular yard debris as defined in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 20-4) (Ord. passed 2-17-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 COLLECTION OF LEAVES.
   The town shall collect leaves, straw, grass clippings, bush trimmings, and
other trash generated as a result of normal lawn care.
(Prior Code, § 20-5) (Ord. passed 2-17-2000)
§ 52.06 METAL AND SIMILAR MATERIALS.
   No person shall place any metal or similar material, which cannot be safely
disposed of by wood chipper in with yard debris and other trash to be picked up
at curbside, by the town.
(Prior Code, § 20-6) (Ord. passed 2-17-2000) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 SPECIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   All materials to be collected shall be placed on the curb line at the
street, or in an area close by, without blocking street, sidewalks, and the
like. These materials shall be in neat compact piles. Call Town Hall for pickup
and fees.
   (B)   The town shall pick up the above items during normal garbage days or
each Wednesday with provision as currently stated.
   (C)   In the event of a major storm, some or all of the yard waste
regulations may be waived for a short period of time.
(Prior Code, § 20-7) (Ord. passed 2-17-2000)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
52.06 shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $200 or imprisoned not
more than 30 days for each such offense. Any offender is liable for the cost of
repair to chipper and/or other equipment resulting in violation of §
52.06.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)
   (C)   (1)   As provided by G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175, the town has the
authority to impose a penalty not to exceed $50 for violations of this chapter.
      (2)   Garbage containers left on the parkway after the prescribed hours
shall be classified as a violation of this section. Each subsequent day they
are left on the parkway will be considered a new offense.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
(Ord. passed 12-17-1987; Ord. passed 2-17-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   Transit by trucks
   
70.02   Method of parking
   
70.03   Parking of tractor trailers
   
70.04   Wheeled apparatus on sidewalks, trails, parking lots, and parks
   
70.05   Parking on or obstructing sidewalks and public rights-of-way
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 TRANSIT BY TRUCKS.
   (A)   Tractor-trailer rigs may use residential streets only to discharge or
pick up cargo. They may not use residential streets to transit the town.
   (B)   Tractor-trailer rigs may transit the town on state system roads only.
Such roads are more explicitly defined as:
      (1)   U.S. Highway # 1 (or Walnut Street);
      (2)   East of U.S. Highway # 1:
         (a)   East Baltimore Avenue from U.S. Highway # 1 to Currant Street;
         (b)   All of Currant Street;
         (c)   East New England Avenue from Currant Street to South Peach
Street;
         (d)   South Peach Street from East New England Avenue to Pinebluff
Lake Road; and
         (e)   Pinebluff Lake Road to the eastern town limits.
      (3)   West of U.S. Highway # 1:
         (a)   West Baltimore Avenue to Ridgecrest Street; and
         (b)   Ridgecrest Street from West Philadelphia Avenue to the northern
town limits.
(Prior Code, § 22-1) (Ord. passed 9-21-1989)
§ 70.02 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the Business
District; except, that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
   (B)   When signs are placed which prohibit parking or when the curbing has
been painted yellow in lieu of such signs, no person shall park a vehicle at
any time upon any of the streets so marked. Parking on U.S. Highway #1/Walnut
Street is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 22-21) (Ord. passed 3-6-1980; Ord. passed 4-20-1999) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING OF TRACTOR TRAILERS.
   (A)   Tractor trailers (18-wheel trucks, trailers, or both) may use
residential streets only to discharge or pick up cargo.
   (B)   Tractor trailers (18-wheel trucks, trailers, or both) may not be
parked on residential streets, or in driveways or on residential lots outside
of a fully enclosed structure, any longer than necessary to discharge or pick
up cargo.
   (C)   Tractor trailers (18-wheel trucks, trailers, or both) may not remain
parked overnight or stored in residentially zoned areas, outside of a fully
enclosed structure.
(Prior Code, § 22-22) (Ord. passed 9-21-1989) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 WHEELED APPARATUS ON SIDEWALKS, TRAILS, PARKING LOTS, AND PARKS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, wheeled apparatus shall include but are
not necessarily limited to the following: automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, go-
carts, motor-driven bikes, all terrain vehicles, mini-bikes, scooters,
coasters, golf carts, riding lawn mowers, motorized farm and construction
equipment vehicles, and any other self-propelled vehicle as well as roller
skates, skateboards, roller blades, and any other non-motorized wheeled
apparatus. For the purposes of this section, bicycles and tricycles are not
included in this definition, but both bicycles and tricycles may nonetheless be
excluded in certain areas that are marked with appropriate signs.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, park, ride, or use any
wheeled apparatus upon or within any town sidewalk, walking trails, town
parking lot (except for licensed automobiles, trucks, and motorcycles), or any
other public or private property which is not a public street or highway except
in the following instances:
      (1)   Where such wheeled apparatus is being driven, ridden, or used upon
property of the owner, resident, or occupant, or by an authorized visitor when
such visitor is accompanied by or has written authorization in his, her, or
their possession of the owner, resident, or occupant of such property;
      (2)   Where such use in permitted in accordance with the Chapter 152 of
this code of ordinances;
      (3)   Where the use of any such wheeled apparatus is specifically allowed
by the town in an area specifically designated for such use; or
      (4)   Where the wheeled apparatus is a wheelchair.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, park, ride, or use any
wheeled apparatus upon or within any town park, or bicycle path except in areas
so designated, signed, and/or marked for use by wheeled apparatuses, and except
for maintenance and/or other activities under the direction of and authorized
by the town.
(Prior Code, § 22-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING ON OR OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect any pole, standard, or
tower, or make or dig any hole or make any excavations or dig into any street,
sidewalk, alley, or any thoroughfare dedicated to public use or install any
item over or under public right-of-way without first requesting and obtaining
from the town Public Works Director’s permission to perform such work.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to install or erect any apparatus or
structure not limited to skateboard ramps or basketball goals, either permanent
or portable, adjacent to or on street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 22-24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   As provided by G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175, the town has the authority to
impose a penalty and/or fine not to exceed $50 for violation of this chapter.
Each day after initial action that vehicles remain parked on streets or
parkways in violation of this chapter shall be considered a new offense.
(Prior Code, § 22-25)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREETS AND PARKWAYS
      
97.    PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Collection of dogs and cats for sale
   
90.003   Privilege tax on dogs and cats
   
90.004   Tax administration
   
90.005   Rabies tags
   
90.006   Enforcement administration
   
90.007   Appeals
Livestock and Wild Animals
   
90.020   Permits
   
90.021   Applicability
   
90.022   Revocation of permit
Animal Control and Regulations
   
90.035   Animal control program
   
90.036   Animal control officers
   
90.037   Interference with Administrator
   
90.038   Confinement and running at-large
   
90.039   Animals creating a nuisance
   
90.040   Dangerous dogs
   
90.041   Security dogs
   
90.042   Location and maintenance of animal pens and enclosures
   
90.043   Stray animals
   
90.044   Impoundment notice to owner
   
90.045   Release to owner
   
90.046   Adoption and destruction
Rabies
   
90.060   Administrator to cooperate in vaccination programs
   
90.061   Quarantine of animals suspected of having rabies
   
90.062   Disposition of rabid animals
   
90.063   Rabies tag
Care and Protection
   
90.075   Cruelty to animals
   
90.076   Notice in case of injury
Kennels and Pet Shops
   
90.090   Applicability to veterinarians
   
90.091   Kennels
   
90.092   Pet shops
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Class I kennels, see §
152.242
   Class II kennels, see §
152.243
   Kennels and pet shops, generally, see §
152.241
   Pet shops, see §
152.244
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision in a sanitary manner at suitable intervals, not
to exceed 24 hours, of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the
species and age, sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each
animal.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A shelter or containment area that:
      (1)   Will keep a non-aquatic animal dry, out of the direct path of winds
and out of the direct sun, at a temperature and level that is healthful for the
animal;
      (2)   Is free of accumulated waste and debris so that the animal shall be
free to walk or lie down without coming in contact with any such waste or
debris;
      (3)   Provides a suitable method of drainage to eliminate accumulating
excess water or moisture; and
      (4)   As applied to aquatic or semi-aquatic animals, a containment area
that has an adequate amount of clean water to enable the animal to move about.
   ADEQUATE WATER. A constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water provided
in a sanitary manner. In near or below freezing temperatures, containers must
be non-metallic.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature specifically including but not limited
to dogs, cats, livestock, birds, fish, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A place provided and operated by the county directly or by
contractual agreement, whether jointly with other governmental agencies or
independently, for the restraint, care, adoption, and disposition of animals.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The animal control officer or any other person designated by
the Town Board to perform the responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the
Administrator.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A person of suitable age who is physically and mentally
capable of keeping an animal under sufficient restrain and control in order to
prevent harm to the animal and to persons and other animals.
   CRUEL TREATMENT. Every act, omission, or neglect whereby unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. Such acts or
omissions shall include, but not be limited to, beating, kicking, hanging,
submerging under water, suffocating, poisoning, setting on fire, and depriving
of food, water, exercise and medical treatment, or otherwise subjecting the
animal to conditions detrimental to its health or general welfare. Such terms,
however, shall not be construed to include lawful taking of animals under the
jurisdiction and regulations of the Wildlife Resources Commission and lawful
activities for sport.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A domesticated or tame animal that is kept principally as a
pet. Livestock and wild animals shall not be regarded as DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or otherwise come into contact with,
any animal known to suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   HARBOR. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered
by the same person or household for 72 consecutive hours or more.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by such person.
   LEASH-FREE AREA. An area of town-owned property within the town limits
designated by the Town Board upon which animals may be permitted to go free
from physical restraint.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, cows, pigs, goats, sheep, fowl (such as chickens,
ducks, turkeys, and the like), rabbits, and all other animals that typically
are kept primarily for productive or useful purposes rather than as pets. All
rabbits and domestic fowl, including but not limited to chicken, ducks,
turkeys, geese and guineas are considered LIVESTOCK, regardless of whether the
birds are kept primarily as pets or for productive purposes.
   OWNER. Any person who owns any animal.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint if its movement is physically
controlled by use of a leash, cage, bridle, or similar effective device which
restrains and controls the animal, or if it is within a vehicle from which it
cannot escape without assistance.
   RUNNING AT-LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be running at-large when it
is off the property of its owner or its keeper, and not under the restraint of
a competent person.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. An animal which has bitten a person or another
animal.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that typically is found in a non-domesticated state
and that, because of its size or vicious propensity or because it is poisonous
or for any other substantial reason, poses a potential danger to persons, other
animals or property, including, without limitation, all felines other than the
domestic house cat, non-human primates (excluding monkeys under 25 pounds),
bears, wolves, coyotes, reptiles (poisonous, crushing, and giant), and any
crossbreed of such animals which have similar characteristics of the animals
specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
§ 90.002 COLLECTION OF DOGS AND CATS FOR SALE.
   No person may engage in the collection of dogs and cats for sale in the
town.
(Prior Code, § 3-31) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.003 PRIVILEGE TAX ON DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   The owner of every dog over four months of age that is kept within the
town shall pay to the town annually a tax on the privilege of keeping such
animal within the town.
   (B)   The amount of the tax shall be established annually as part of the
annual budget ordinance adoption process.
   (C)   In order to further the goal of controlling animal population, the tax
on unspayed or unneutered dogs shall be higher than that on spayed or neutered
animals.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 TAX ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner of every dog over four months of age that is kept within the
town shall, within 30 days after such animal is located within the town or
reaches the designated age, register such animal with the office of the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   The tax year for purposes of the tax levied under this chapter shall
be the 12-month period which runs from January 1 to December 31 of any year.
The full amount of the annual tax shall be paid when the animal is first
registered, regardless of how much of the tax year may have already passed.
   (C)   The town shall provide annually to the owner of an animal for which a
tax is paid under this chapter, an identification tag that will enable a person
examining the tag to determine (by contacting the office of the Town Clerk) the
owner’s name and address.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 RABIES TAGS.
   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-190, the owners and keepers of all dogs shall
cause such animals to wear a valid rabies tag. Cats shall not be required to
wear the rabies tag, but such wear by cats is highly encouraged.
(Prior Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION.
   Primary responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter may be
assigned to one or more individuals by the Town Board. The term ADMINISTRATOR
is used in this chapter to refer to the person or persons assigned these
responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 3-37)
§ 90.007 APPEALS.
   (A)   The owner of any animal who meets one of the following conditions may
appeal to the Town Board within ten days after receiving the written notice of
the determination appealed from. An appeal is taken by filing a written notice
of appeal with the Administrator and stays all enforcement efforts of the
Administrator until the appeal is disposed of:
      (1)   Is required to remove his, her, or their animal from the town
pursuant to §
90.038;
      (2)   Who has been assessed and has paid a civil penalty;
      (3)   Whose permit is denied or revoked pursuant to §§
90.020 through
90.022; or
      (4)   Whose animal is declared a dangerous dog.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Board shall meet within 20 days after notice of appeal
is filed.
      (2)   A quorum of the Board shall consist of three members, and all
decisions shall be made by majority vote.
      (3)   The Board may uphold, reverse, or modify the determination appealed
from, and the Administrator shall thereafter continue, modify, or cease his,
her, or their enforcement efforts in accordance with the Board’s decision.
   (C)   (1)   The burden of justifying the Administrator’s determination shall
be on the Administrator.
      (2)   Strict rules of evidence need not be followed, but the Board may
consider only what a witness knows of his, her, or their own knowledge, and no
decision may be based upon hearsay alone.
   (D)   The Board shall reach a decision as expeditiously as possible and
shall provide the appellant and the Administrator with a written decision,
stating the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-38)
LIVESTOCK AND WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.020 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person may keep within the town any wild animal as defined in §
90.001.
   (B)   No person may keep within the town any permissible livestock over four
months of age except in accordance with a permit issued pursuant to division
(C) below.
   (C)   Subject to divisions (D) and (E) below, no permit may be issued for
any livestock unless the applicant for the permit demonstrates that the
livestock will be kept on a tract of land that satisfies each of the following
conditions.
      (1)   The tract shall consist of at least 40,000 square feet of land
under single ownership or control.
      (2)   There shall be at least 20,000 square feet of land per animal.
      (3)   No fence, corral, or similar enclosure shall be erected or
maintained within 15 feet of any property line.
      (4)   No barn, stable, or similar structure used for the keeping of
livestock other than rabbits or fowl shall be erected or maintained within 50
feet of any property line or street right-of-way.
      (5)   No barn, cage, pen, or similar structure used for the keeping of
rabbits for fowl shall be erected or maintained within 15 feet of any property
line or street right-of-way line.
   (D)   The provisions of divisions (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5) above shall not
preclude the establishment, with the consent of the affected adjoining property
owners, of a commonly owned or used fence, barn, or other enclosure, all or
part of which is located along or near a common property line.
   (E)   The provisions set forth above in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above
shall not apply to rabbits and fowl. However, no permit may be issued for
rabbits or fowl unless the provisions of divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) above are
complied with and unless the permit applicant demonstrates compliance with the
following conditions.
      (1)   The tract where such livestock are kept shall consist of at least
10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Such livestock may be kept only on a lot used for residential
purposes. Such livestock may not be kept for commercial purposes.
      (3)   No more than five hens or other female fowl are permitted. No
roosters or other male fowl are permitted.
      (4)   All fowl must be kept in an enclosed yard or pen with direct access
to a shelter or coop with a roost. Both the pen and shelter must meet the
setback of division (C)(3) above.
      (5)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to confirm that the
structure either complies with or is exempt from the State Building Code.
      (6)   (a)   All structures/coops shall be constructed of opaque building
materials and have four solid walls and a roof made of an impervious roofing
material.
         (b)   All structures/coops shall be painted, stained, made of an
impervious material or treated to withstand the elements.
         (c)   Coops may be sized to accommodate up to five birds.
      (7)   No rabbits or fowl may be slaughtered in the town limits for either
consumption, sale, or barter.
   (F)   After compliance with division (G) below, the Administrator shall
issue the permit required by this section unless he, she, or they finds that.
      (1)   The applicant has failed to comply with division (C) above.
      (2)   The animal for which the permit is requested poses a substantial
danger of harm to any person, animal, or property.
      (3)   The animal for which the permit is requested is likely to or does
interfere with the use and enjoyment or neighboring properties because of
offensive noise or odor or for other reasons.
      (4)   The animal for which the license is requested constitutes a threat
to the public health or safety.
   (G)   (1)   Before issuing a permit under this section, the Administrator
shall notify the applicant and the applicant’s immediate neighbors by any
convenient means of a date and time when they may be heard on the question of
whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   After the hearing, the Administrator shall set forth in writing
his, her, or their reasons for the issuance or denial of the permit and shall
furnish a copy thereof to any person requesting the same.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
Cross-reference:
   Horse farms, see §
152.247
§ 90.021 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any livestock
present within the town (or present on property that is subsequently annexed)
on the effective date of this subchapter, or to replacements for such
livestock, or to animals born to such livestock. However, additional livestock
may not be added unless all of the provisions of this subchapter are complied
with.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are subject to the provisions of
G.S. § 106-701.
   (C)   The establishment of horse farms, or owning or keeping of one or more
horses within the town’s planning jurisdiction, shall be subject to the
provisions of §
152.247 rather than the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-6) (Ord. passed 4-21-2005)
§ 90.022 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permit issued in accordance with this section may be revoked by the
Administrator after notice and hearing, for any reason that would have
justified denial of the permit in the first instance.
   (B)   If the Administrator denies or revokes a permit in accordance with
this section, he, she, or they shall notify the owner of the animal of his,
her, or their right to appeal such decision in accordance with §
90.007.
(Prior Code, § 3-7)
ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATIONS
§ 90.035 ANIMAL CONTROL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The town’s Animal Control Program, as herein described and as
otherwise described in other town ordinances related to animals and as
otherwise described under the laws of the state, shall be administered by the
animal control officer or other persons designated by the Town Board to perform
the responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Administrator.
   (B)   Such persons or persons are referred to in this subchapter as “the
Administrator.”
(Prior Code, § 3-8)
§ 90.036 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   The Administrator shall:
   (A)   Enforce all laws of the state and all ordinances of the town
pertaining to animals and cooperate with all animal control officers and law
enforcement officers within the county in fulfilling this duty;
   (B)   Cooperate with all agencies within the county and the towns therein
and assist the enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals, the
vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies, the confinement and leashing of
vicious animals, and any other state law applicable to animals or animal
control;
   (C)   Investigate reported or observed animal cruelty or animal abuse;
   (D)   Investigate public nuisance complaints involving animals;
   (E)   Investigate reports of observed harassment or attacks by dogs or other
animals against livestock and assist in locating those persons owning or
harboring the attacking animals;
   (F)   Investigate all reported animal bites, in order to comply with the
provisions of §§
90.037 and
90.060 through
90.063 of this chapter;
   (G)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records as determined
by the Town Board; and
   (H)   Be trained to standards to be established by the Town Board, which
training shall include but not be limited to training in animal first aid
taught by a licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 3-9)
§ 90.037 INTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, and/or molest
the Administrator or any police officer while in the performance of any duty
authorized by this chapter, or to seek to release any animal in the custody of
the Administrator or other agent of the town, except in the manner herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038 CONFINEMENT AND RUNNING AT-LARGE.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (B) and (C) below, no owner or keeper of any
animal may cause, permit, or allow the animal to stray or in any manner to run
at-large or trespass upon the property of another.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to cats.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to any area of
town property designated by resolution of the Town Board as a “leash-free”
area.
(Prior Code, § 3-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039 ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Subject to division (E) below, no owner or keeper may have within the
town, after receiving the notice of removal prescribed in division (C) below,
any animal that:
      (1)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases, snaps at or
attacks pedestrians, bicycles, or vehicles even if the animal never leaves the
owner’s property (except that this provision shall not apply if such animal is
restrained by a pen, fence, or other enclosure) or does so only to transgress
upon the adjacent right-of-way and then returns to its owner’s property;
      (2)   Seriously interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by
neighboring residents of their property because of its odor, habitual barking,
howling, whining, crying, crowing, or other noise making;
      (3)   Is a female animal that is not confined while in heat in a building
or secure enclosure in such a manner that she will not be in contact with
another animal, provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit
the intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of
the owner or keeper of an animal involved in the breeding process;
      (4)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner or keeper,
including but not limited to, turning over garbage containers or damaging
gardens, flowers, shrubbery, vegetables or trees either by digging, defecation
or urination, or causing injury to domesticated livestock or pets; and/or
      (5)   Without provocation, inflicts on any person a serious injury
requiring treatment by a physician, including but not limited to a bite or
scratch that breaks the skin.
   (B)   If the Administrator determines that any animal is creating a nuisance
as described in division (A) above, he, she, or they shall in writing inform
the animal’s owner of the nature of the violation(s) and shall indicate that
unless these violations are corrected and/or measures taken to prevent their
recurrence within 48 hours, the owner shall be required to remove the animal
from the town.
   (C)   If the Administrator determines that any animal cited for a violation
of division (A) above has, more than 48 hours after service of the notice
prescribed in division (B) above, continued to cause a nuisance as described in
division (A), then the Administrator shall, in writing, notify the animal’s
owner that the animal must forthwith be removed from the town. The
Administrator shall also notify the owner of his, her, or their right to appeal
this determination in accordance with §
90.007.
   (D)   The owner of any animal removed pursuant to this section shall, within
five days after removal, inform the Administrator in writing of the animal’s
present location, including the name, address and telephone number of the
animal’s current owner or keeper. If the animal has been destroyed, the
Administrator shall be informed of the name, address, and telephone number of
the person who destroyed such animal.
   (E)   The provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above shall not apply to
cats. However, cats shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   If a cat engages in any of the activities described in this
section, then the Administrator shall in writing inform the cat’s owner of the
nature of these actions and shall indicate that unless these activities are
corrected and/or measures, such as a bell, are taken to prevent their
recurrence, the owner shall be required to confine the cat on the owner’s
premises. A person who fails to abide by the direction of the Administrator to
confine a cat pursuant to this division (E)(1) shall be subject to the civil
penalties described in §
90.999. This process shall apply to any cat that, off the premises of its owner
or keeper:
         (a)   Habitually or repeatedly defecates or urinates in children’s
sandboxes;
         (b)   Habitually or repeatedly injures or kills animals or birds,
whether domesticated or not;
         (c)   Is a female in heat not confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner as to prevent contact with another cat;
         (d)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases or attacks
pedestrians or bicyclists;
         (e)   Seriously interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by
neighboring residents of their property because of its howling, whining,
crying, or other noise making; and/or
         (f)   Without provocation, inflicts on any person a serious injury
requiring treatment by a physician, including but not limited to a bite or
scratch that breaks the skin.
      (2)   If a cat engages in any of the activities described in division (E)
(1) above, and the Administrator is otherwise unable to determine the identity
of the owner or keeper of the cat, the Administrator may impound the animal. If
the owner or keeper can thereafter be identified, the cat shall be returned to
such owner or keeper and the notification procedures of division (E)(1) above
shall be followed. If the owner or keeper cannot after reasonable effort be
identified or located, the Administrator shall deliver the cat to the animal
control shelter.
(Prior Code, § 3-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section are derived from G.S. §§ 67-4.1 through
67-4.5.
   (B)   As used in this section, unless the context clearly requires otherwise
and except as modified in division (C) below, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person;
         (b)   Is determined by the Administrator to be potentially dangerous
because the dog has engaged in one or more of the behaviors listed in this
division (B); or
         (c)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the Administrator determines to
have:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of
the dog, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer’s official duties;
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog,
or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control of, its owner
or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
   (D)   (1)   The Administrator shall be responsible for determining when a
dog is a potentially dangerous dog.
      (2)   The Administrator must notify the owner in writing, giving the
reasons for the determination, before the dog may be considered potentially
dangerous under this section.
      (3)   The owner may appeal the determination by filing written objections
with the Town Board within three days of notification.
      (4)   The Town Board shall schedule a hearing within ten days of the
filing of the objections.
      (5)   Any appeal from the final decision of the Town Board shall be taken
to the Superior Court by filing a notice of appeal and a petition for review
within ten days of the final decision of the Town Board.
      (6)   Appeals from rulings of the Town Board shall be heard in the
Superior Court division. The appeal shall be heard de novo before a Superior
Court judge sitting in the county.
   (E)   No person may:
      (1)   Leave a dangerous dog unattended on the owner’s real property
unless the dog is confined indoors, in a securely enclosed and locked pen, or
in another structure designed to adequately restrain the dog; or
      (2)   Permit a dangerous dog to go beyond the owner’s real property
unless the dog is leashed and muzzled or is otherwise securely restrained and
muzzled.
   (F)   If the owner of a dangerous dog transfers ownership or possession to
the dog to another person, as defined in G.S. § 12-3(6), the owner shall
provide written notice to:
      (1)   The Administrator, stating the name address of the new owner or
possessor of the dog; and
      (2)   The person taking ownership or possession of the dog, specifying
the dog’s dangerous behavior and the authority’s determination.
(Prior Code, § 3-13) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 SECURITY DOGS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term SECURITY DOG shall mean any dog
on the premises of its owner or keeper that is:
      (1)   Trained or conditioned to attack or otherwise respond aggressively,
but only upon command from its owner or keeper (patrol dog); or
      (2)   Trained or conditioned to attack or otherwise respond aggressively
without command (sentry dog).
   (B)   All persons owning security dogs shall register such animals with the
town’s Police Department.
   (C)   (1)   The owner or keeper of any dog that is classified as a security
dog under this section shall place signs or placards on this premises noting
“Premises Patrolled by Security Dog” or other information noting the presence
of security dog(s).
      (2)   Such signs shall be prominently displayed in points of probable
entry to the premises so as to provide reasonable notice of the presence of
such security dogs.
      (3)   Signs noting “Beware of Dog” shall not be sufficient notice of a
security dog trained to attack or otherwise respond aggressively without
command (sentry dogs).
(Prior Code, § 3-13) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042 LOCATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ANIMAL PENS AND ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   All livestock shall be kept within a pen, coop, fence, or other secure
enclosure.
   (B)   Lots, pens, coops, and other enclosures where animals are kept or fed
shall be located at such a distance from dwellings and places of concentrated
human activity and at such distance from sources of water or food supply or
food preparation as may be necessary to protect the public health.
   (C)   All such lots, pens, coops, and other enclosures shall be maintained
at all times in a sufficiently clean and sanitary manner to protect adjacent
properties from offensive doors or other nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 3-14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person may, without the consent of its owner or keeper, knowingly
or intentionally harbor, feed, or keep in possession by confinement or
otherwise, any animal bearing identification tags or otherwise known by the
person to belong to a specific individual, other than to restrain the animal
pending notification of its owner or the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person coming into the possession of an animal bearing
identification or otherwise known to belong to a specific individual shall make
reasonable efforts to notify the owner within 24 hours.
   (C)   Any person who keeps or keeps in his, her, or their possession any
animal whose owner or keeper is unknown to such person is obligated within 72
hours from the time such animal comes into his, her, or their possession to
notify the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3-15) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044 IMPOUNDMENT NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Administrator may impound any animal that:
      (1)   Is found to be running at large in violation of §
90.038; or
      (2)   In accordance with §§
90.060 through
90.063, has bitten any person or is otherwise suspected of having rabies.
   (B)   Whenever an animal is impounded, or whenever an animal otherwise
lawfully comes into the possession of the Administrator, the Administrator
shall either return the animal to its owner or keeper or take the animal to the
animal shelter, where the animal shall be kept until released or destroyed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Whenever an animal is impounded or otherwise comes into the possession
of the Administrator, the Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to
identify the owner, notify him, her, or them of the impoundment, and advise
him, her, or them of the conditions under which the animal may be reclaimed, if
any.
   (D)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-186, an animal running at large may be seized
and either sold or destroyed after reasonable efforts to notify the owner.
(Prior Code, § 3-22)
§ 90.045 RELEASE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, an owner of an impounded animal may
reclaim the animal after it is impounded, upon compliance with the requirements
of this section and in accordance with the requirements established by the
animal shelter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Administrator
may refuse to release any animal that is:
      (1)   Subject to an order of removal pursuant to §
90.039(C); or
      (2)   Is being held for ten days pursuant to §
90.061 and G.S. § 130A-198.
(Prior Code, § 3-23)
§ 90.046 ADOPTION AND DESTRUCTION.
   Whenever the ownership of an animal cannot be determined with reasonable
effort, or whenever the owner fails to reclaim the animal as provided in §
90.045, the animal may be adopted or otherwise disposed of in accordance with
the procedures of the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 3-24)
RABIES
§ 90.060 ADMINISTRATOR TO COOPERATE IN VACCINATION PROGRAMS.
      The Administrator shall cooperate with and assist the county’s rabies
inspectors in their efforts to see that all animals are vaccinated against
rabies in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §§ 130A-184 through 130A-200.
(Prior Code, § 3-18)
§ 90.061 QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-198, every animal that has bitten any
person or other animal or that shows symptoms of rabies shall be securely
confined for a period of at least ten days and shall not be released from such
quarantine except by written permission of the Administrator.
   (B)   The owner or keeper of an animal that has bitten any person or other
animal or that shows symptoms of rabies shall report the same immediately to
the Administrator. Any person bitten by an animal shall immediately report the
incident to the Administrator.
   (C)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-196, a physician who attends a person
bitten by an animal known to be a potential carrier of rabies shall report
within 24 hours to the county’s Health Director the name, age, and sex of that
person.
   (D)   Animals quarantined in accordance with this section shall be confined
in a veterinary hospital or the animal shelter at the owner’s expense, unless
the Administrator determines that the owner has adequate confinement facilities
upon his, her, or their own premises and has a current rabies vaccination. For
purposes of this division (D), ADEQUATE CONFINEMENT FACILITIES means a fenced-
in area that has no entrances or exits that are not locked, or a similar area
providing equivalent security.
(Prior Code, § 3-19)
§ 90.062 DISPOSITION OF RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-199, every rabid animal, after rabies
has been diagnosed by a licensed veterinarian, shall be killed at once in a
humane manner by the Administrator, or at his, her, or their direction; except
that, if the animal has bitten a human being, such animal shall be confined
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian until the death of the animal.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-197, every animal known to have been
bitten by another animal that is known or proved to be rabid shall be killed by
the Administrator or at his, her, or their direction, unless the animal has
been properly vaccinated against rabies. In this event, the animal shall be
closely confined for 90 days. If, during this period, the animal shows symptoms
of rabies, the provisions of §
90.061 above shall apply. At the end of this period, the animal may be released
from confinement if declared free from rabies by a licensed veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 3-20)
§ 90.063 RABIES TAG.
   Applicable requirements for the wearing of rabies tags are set forth in §
90.005.
(Prior Code, § 3-21)
CARE AND PROTECTION
§ 90.075 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. §§ 14-360 and 14-361, no person may willfully
subject any animal to cruel treatment, including but not limited to the
following: overdrive, overload, wound, injure, torture, cruelly beat,
needlessly mutilate or kill any animal, deprive any animal of adequate food,
water, shelter or veterinary care, or cause or procure the same.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. §§ 14-362 and 14-362.1, no person may conduct,
promote, attend, or otherwise participate in animal fighting or cock fighting.
   (C)   No person may possess any paraphernalia for the purposes of dog, cock,
or other animal fighting, including but not limited to gaffs.
   (D)   In accordance with G.S. § 14-363.1, no person may sell or offer for
sale, barter, or give away within the town, baby chickens, baby ducklings, or
other fowl or rabbits under eight weeks of age as pets, toys, premiums, or
novelties.
   (E)   No person may color, dye, stain, to otherwise change the natural color
of baby chickens or other fowl or rabbits.
   (F)   No person may tether any fowl.
   (G)   No person may restrain any animal except in a humane fashion. If an
unattended animal is restrained by a chain, leash, or similar restraint, it
shall be designed and placed to prevent choking and strangulation. Such
restraint shall be not less than 15 feet in length and either on a swivel or on
a chain run, and located in such a fashion to prevent entanglement with
obstacles.
   (H)   No person may use for the purpose of trapping animals, any type of
steel jaw trap (except commercially available mice and rat traps). A STEEL JAW
TRAP is defined as any spring-powered device designed to capture or hold an
animal by exerting a lateral force with fix-mounted jaws on the leg, paw, or
any other part of an animal’s body.
   (I)   No person may entice or lure any animal out of an enclosure or off the
property of its owner or keeper, or seize, molest or tease any animal while the
animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper or while the animal is on
or off the property of its owner or keeper.
   (J)   In accordance with G.S. § 14-363, no person may carry or cause to be
carried in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any animal in a cruel or
inhumane manner.
   (K)   No person may transport without adequate ventilation an animal in the
closed trunk of a vehicle, or closed compartment on a vehicle or trailer when
the ambient temperature outside the vehicle or trailer is greater than or equal
to 70°F.
   (L)   No person may commit any of those acts made unlawful under the
provisions of G.S. §§ 14-362 and 14-362.1, or commit any other act made
unlawful by any other law of the state relating to animal fighting or animal
baiting.
   (M)   In accordance with G.S. § 14-361.1, no person may abandon or forsake
any animal within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-25) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.076 NOTICE IN CASE OF INJURY.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle or bicycle, causes injury
to any domestic animal or livestock is obliged to stop at once and render such
assistance as may be possible and shall immediately notify at least one of the
following:
   (A)   The owner(s) or keeper(s) of the animal (if known or ascertained with
reasonable efforts);
   (B)   An animal control officer;
   (C)   The Police Department; or
   (D)   The animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 3-26) Penalty, see §
90.999
KENNELS AND PET SHOPS
§ 90.090 APPLICABILITY TO VETERINARIANS.
   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians
for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter except for the provisions relating to cruelty to animals and rabies
control.
(Prior Code, § 3-27)
§ 90.091 KENNELS.
   (A)   No person or persons will keep a kennel in the town limits.
   (B)   There will be no more than three dogs per residence over the age of
six months in the town limits.
   (C)   If a resident of the town wishes to keep more that three dogs as pets
in a residence in the town, he, she, or they may request that the Town Board
grant an exception to this section. The request will be made in writing to the
Town Board, stating reasons why the request for exception should be granted.
   (D)   Any exception to the section must be approved by the Town Board and
duly noted in the minutes of Town Board meetings.
(Prior Code, § 3-28) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 PET SHOPS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the term PET SHOP shall mean an
establishment wherein animals bred by others are held for sale or exchange.
   (B)   No person may own or operate a pet shop within the town.
(Prior Code, § 3-29) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of the provisions of §§
90.037,
90.039(A),
90.041(B), and
90.075 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 3-39)
   (B)   (1)   A violation of any of the provisions cited in division (A)
above, as well as §§
90.003,
90.005,
90.020(A),
90.038(A),
90.039(E),
90.042, and
90.063 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. The penalty for a
second violation of §
90.038(A) shall be $35, and for a third and subsequent violations, the penalty
shall be $50. If the offender fails to pay any penalty within 15 calendar days
after being cited for a violation. The penalty may be recovered by the town in
a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been
notified that such violation exists and that he, she, or they is subject to the
penalties specified in divisions (A) and (B)(1) above shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable
action, including injunctions or orders of abatement.
      (4)   The town may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of
the foregoing remedies.
(Prior Code, § 3-39)
   (C)   (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 67-4.2, violation of §
90.040 is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 or imprisonment
for not more than 30 days or both.
      (2)   In accordance with G.S. § 67-4.3, the owner of a dangerous dog that
attacks a person and causes physical injuries requiring medical treatment in
excess of $100 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to
$5,000, imprisonment up to two years, or both.
      (3)   In accordance with G.S. § 67-4.4, the owner of a dangerous dog
shall be strictly liable in civil damages for any injuries or property damage
the dog inflicts upon a person, his, her, or their property, or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 3-13)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Manner of enforcement
   
91.03   Remedies
Litter and Dumping
   
91.15   Scope
   
91.16   Littering
   
91.17   Handbills
   
91.18   Procedure for clearing litter
   
91.19   New site construction procedures
Premises and Vacant Lots
   
91.30   Maintenance of premises and vacant lots
   
91.31   Specifications for weeds, grass, and the like
   
91.32   Required notice of violation
   
91.33   Serving of notice
   
91.34   Right of appeal
Noise
   
91.45   Scope
   
91.46   Loud or unnecessary noise
   
91.47   Action in criminal court
   
91.48   Manner of enforcement
   
91.49   Additional remedies
Prohibited Behavior
   
91.60   Swimming pool construction, use, and inspections
   
91.61   Authorization for dumping and unauthorized dumping
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE. The removal, prostration, or destruction of that
which causes a nuisance, whether by breaking or pulling it down, or otherwise
removing, disintegrating, or effacing it.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall
include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in the town’s garbage and refuse collection
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced literature which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business, mercantile, commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sale;
      (3)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit, but shall not apply where an
admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up for the purpose of
defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical performance,
exhibition, or event of any kind, when either the same is held, given, or taken
place in connection with the dissemination of information which is not
restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public peace,
safety, and good order. However, nothing contained in this division (3) shall
be deemed to authorize the holding, giving, or taking place of any meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind without a license,
where such license is or may be required by any law of the state or under any
ordinance of the town; or
      (4)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purposes of for private benefit and gain of any person so
engaged as advertiser or distributor.
(Prior Code, § 12-5)
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
(Prior Code, § 12-6)
   LITTER. Shall include GARBAGE, REFUSE, and RUBBISH as defined herein and all
other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends
to create a danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12-7)
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States
in accordance with a federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law. In addition,
NEWSPAPER shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly
published not less than four issues per year, and sold to the public.
(Prior Code, § 12-8)
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the above definitions of commercial handbill or
newspaper.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, anything which is injurious to
health, is indecent or offensive to the senses, or is an obstruction to the
free use of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or which unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any public park, square, street, or highway within the
town.
      (2)   In determining what constitutes a NUISANCE, for the purposes of
this chapter, the question is whether the nuisance will or does produce such a
condition of things as in the judgement of reasonable persons is naturally
productive of actual physical discomfort to persons of ordinary sensibility and
ordinary tastes and habits. However, distinction should be made between public,
private, and mixed nuisances. For that purpose, a PUBLIC NUISANCE is one which
affects an indefinite number of persons, all the residents of a particular
locality, or all people coming within the extent of its range or operation,
although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals may
be unequal. A PRIVATE NUISANCE includes any wrongful act which destroys or
deteriorates the property of an individual or of a few persons or interferes
with their lawful use or enjoyment thereof, or any act which unlawfully hinders
them in the enjoyment of a common or private right and causes them a special
injury different from that sustained by the general public. A MIXED NUISANCE
has been defined as one which is both public and private in its effects; public
because it injures many persons or all the community, and private in that it
also produces special injuries to private rights.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center, or any other
public area in the town owned or used by the town and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch steps, vestibule, or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other
structure.
(Prior Code, § 12-12)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 12-13)
   REFUSE. Any putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
(Prior Code, § 12-14)
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar
materials.
(Prior Code, § 12-15)
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is, or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, alley, or street, including devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (MOTOR VEHICLE and ABANDONED
MOTOR VEHICLE are as they are defined in G.S. § 160A-303.)
(Prior Code, § 12-16)
(Ord. passed 12-21-1989)
§ 91.02 MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of any part of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the same
manner as any other misdemeanor violation of the town code. However, in the
event of a violation, written notice of intention to prosecute will be given
the alleged violator not less than five calendar days prior to the issuance of
a misdemeanor complaint. No complaint shall be issued in the event the cause of
the violation is removed or the condition is abated or fully corrected within
the five-day period. In the event the alleged violator cannot be located in
order to serve notice of the intention to prosecute, the notice as is required
herein shall be deemed to be given upon mailing such notice by registered or
certified mail to the alleged violator at his, her, or their last known address
or at the place where the violation occurred, in which event the five-day
period shall commence at the date of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 12-51)
§ 91.03 REMEDIES.
   As an additional remedy, any violation of any part of this chapter or any
provision hereof, which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of
normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace of
residents in the area shall be deemed and is declared to be a public nuisance,
and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 12-52)
LITTER AND DUMPING
§ 91.15 SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter is enacted for the purpose of regulating the
distribution of commercial and noncommercial handbills, controlling the
depositing of litter on private premises, providing a lien for the cost of town
clearance of such littering; and protecting the citizens and residents of the
town against anything in this area which might be detrimental to health,
safety, and the general welfare.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of junk. However, this section shall not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 12-31)
§ 91.16 LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place within the town except in public receptacles,
or in authorized private receptacles for collection, which must be done in
accordance with regulations that appear in the garbage collection regulations
of the town.
   (B)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner so as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place or upon private property.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall sweep into or deposit into any gutter, street,
or other public place within the town the accumulation of litter from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway.
      (2)   The persons owning or occupying the property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   (D)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep or
deposit into any gutter, street, or public place within the town the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
town should keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
   (E)   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the town or upon
private property.
   (F)   No persons shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
town unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley, or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or
foreign matter of any kind.
   (G)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the town
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
   (H)   No persons shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake,
or stream, or any body of water in a park or elsewhere within the town.
   (I)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the town, whether owned by such person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of such private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place, or upon any private property.
   (J)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant property
within the town, regardless of whether the same may be owned by such person.
(Prior Code, § 12-32) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the
town, nor shall any person hand out, distribute, or sell any commercial
handbill in any public place. However, it shall not be unlawful on any
sidewalk, street, or public place within the town for any person to hand out or
distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill
to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any vehicle. However, it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
   (C)   No persons shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant.
   (D)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is place on said premises in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing,” “No
Peddlers or Agents,” “No Advertisement,” or any similar notice, indicating in
any manner that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or
have their right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon
such premises.
   (E)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except
by handing or transmitting such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or upon such private premises. However, in the
case of inhabited private premises which are not posted as provided in division
(D) above, such person, unless requested by anyone on such premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent
such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets, or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used
when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (F)   The provisions in division (E) above shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers as defined in §
91.01 except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a
manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property.
   (G)   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop, or deposit within the
town any litter, handbill, or any other object.
   (H)   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or
device calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost,
public utility pole, shade tree, or upon any public structure or building,
except as may be authorized or required by law in connection with carrying out
required governmental functions.
(Prior Code, § 12-33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PROCEDURE FOR CLEARING LITTER.
   Clearing of litter from open private property by the town shall be
accomplished in accordance with the following procedure.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized, directed, and
empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private property within the
town or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such
owner’s property which is dangerous to public health, safety, or welfare. Such
notice shall be by certified or registered mail, addressed to said owner at the
owner’s last known address.
   (B)   Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner or agent so
notified to properly    dispose of litter dangerous to the public health,
safety, or welfare within ten days after receipt of written notice provided for
in division (A) above, or within 30 days after the date of such notice in the
event the same is returned to the town’s Post Office because of its inability
to make delivery thereof (provided the same is properly addressed to the last
known address of such owner or agent), the Board of Commissioners is authorized
and empowered to cause to be paid out of town funds for the disposing of such
litter or to order its disposal by the town.
   (C)   When the town has effected the removal of such dangerous litter or has
paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the
rate of 1% per month from the date of the completion of the work if not paid by
such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the
next regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the town, and said charge
shall be due and payable by said owner at the time of payment of such bill.
   (D)   Where the full amount due the town is not paid by such owner within 30
days after the disposal of such litter as provided for in divisions (A) and (B)
above, the Board of Commissioners shall cause to be recorded in the office of
the town’s Tax Collector a sworn statement showing the cost and expense
incurred for the work, the date the work was done, and the location of the
property on which said work was done.
      (1)   The recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and
privilege on the property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the
amount due in principal and in interest, plus the costs of court, if any, for
collection, until final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be
collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and, further,
shall be subject to a delinquent penalty of 1% per month in the event same is
not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which said charge
appears becomes delinquent.
      (2)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof
shall be prima facie evidence that the work has been done properly and
satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the
matter of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the
property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due and
collectible as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-34) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 NEW SITE CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   Work on new construction sites shall not commence until contractor places a
port-a-john and a dumpster on the work site.
(Prior Code, § 12-35)
PREMISES AND VACANT LOTS
§ 91.30 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND VACANT LOTS.
   Every person owning, occupying, or leasing any premises or vacant lot or
lots in the city limits, or within one mile thereof, of the town shall keep the
premises or vacant lot or lots free of noxious weeds, trash, scrap metal, junk,
and all forms of animal or vegetable refuse which may be dangerous,
prejudicial, or injurious to the public health, safety and general welfare or
which may otherwise constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. passed 3-4-1971) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned structures, see §§
150.55 through
150.63
§ 91.31 SPECIFICATIONS FOR WEEDS, GRASS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every owner or person in owning, occupying, or leasing any premises or
lot within the corporate limits of the town, or within one mile thereof, shall
keep said property improved by mowing or cutting down to within four inches of
the ground all weeds, grass, or other noxious growth of said lot as often as
may be necessary to prevent weeds or grass from exceeding a height of 12 inches
or otherwise becoming a public nuisance.
   (B)   Further, every person or entity owning, occupying or leasing any
premises or vacant lots within the corporate limits, or within one mile
thereof, of the town shall mow said property at least twice each year, the
first such improvement to be made not later than June 15 and the second not
later than September 15 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 8-2) (Ord. passed 3-4-1971) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Noxious growth, see §
151.23
§ 91.32 REQUIRED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate the provisions of §§
91.30 and
91.31, it shall be the duty of the Mayor or someone designated by him, her, or
them to give notice to the owner or the occupant of said premises or lot, as
provided by §
91.33, directing that within ten days from the date of such notice the
offending material as described in §§
91.30 and
91.31 be removed from said premises or lot; provided, that if the animal or
vegetable matter on such lot is in such dangerous condition as to admit no
delay in its removal, the Mayor may, without said notice, proceed to direct and
effect the removal of same, and the cost thereof shall be charged against such
lot or lots as is provided in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-3) (Ord. passed 3-4-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 SERVING OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice to individual property owners. For any property owned by an
individual or individuals, the notice required by §
91.32 shall be personally served on the owner of premises or lot if such owner
can be ascertained with reasonable diligence and if he, she, or they can be
found with reasonable diligence within or near the town. If the name of such
owner cannot be ascertained or if he, she, or they is not in or near the town,
then such notice shall be personally served on any person occupying such
premises or lot, or if there is no occupant, by posting such notice on such
premises or lot and by mailing notice to the owner of the premises, if his,
her, or their address can be ascertained with reasonable diligence. If any such
premises or lot is owned by more than one person, such notice may be served
upon any person having any estate or interest in such lot and such service
shall be deemed sufficient compliance with this section. Any such notice may be
served by any town employee or Commissioner of the town so authorized by the
Mayor.
   (B)   Notice to owners other than individuals. If any property is owned by a
corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or any other entity other than by
an individual, notice may be served personally or by mail, upon any officer,
manager or agent of such entity. Any such notice may be served by any town
employee or commissioner of the town so authorized by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 8-4) (Ord. passed 3-4-1971)
§ 91.34 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Any owner or occupant of land within the town receiving notice form
the Mayor sufficient under §
91.33 directing the removal of offending matter as described in §§
91.30 and
91.31 shall have the right to appeal such order of the Mayor to the Town Board.
   (B)   Any person wishing to exercise that right of appeal shall communicate
his, her, or their intention to do so to the Mayor within ten days next
following the order of the Mayor to move the offending material.
   (C)   Any person exercising such right of appeal shall receive a hearing at
the next regular session of the Board of Commissioners of the town.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the town shall afford any person so
appealing an opportunity to be heard, shall consider the propriety of the
Mayor’s order to remove such offending matter as described in §§
91.30 and
91.31, and shall either affirm or reject the Mayor’s order of removal; provided
that such decision must be made upon a majority vote of all the members of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Such decision may be rendered at the regular session during which the
hearing is held, but in any event, shall be rendered by no later than the
meeting of the next regular session of the Board of Commissioners following the
meeting in which the hearing is held.
   (F)   Within ten days of the determination of the Board of Commissioners
affirming the order of the Mayor to remove such offending matter as described
in §§
91.30 and
91.31, the owner or occupant of premises resisting such order shall comply as
directed by the Board of Commissioners or be liable for the penalty and/or fine
as prescribed in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 8-6) Penalty, see §
91.99
NOISE
§ 91.45 SCOPE.
   This subchapter prohibits unnecessary or unusually loud noises within the
town and establishes regulations for the control and enforcement of such
provisions, as a result of the following provisions.
   (A)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud
noises has long been a problem of municipalities throughout this state and
elsewhere, and the increasing intensity of this form of pollution has reached
the point where it is a detriment to the public health, comfort, convenience,
safety, welfare, and prosperity of the citizens, residents, and other persons
in the town.
   (B)   It is therefore necessary and in the public interest, for the
provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, to be established by the town and
it is hereby declared that the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter
contained and enacted are in pursuance and for the purpose of securing and
promoting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, prosperity,
peace, and quiet of the town and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 8-21) (Ord. passed 12-21-1989) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.46 LOUD OR UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued any excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others within the limits of the town.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but said enumeration
shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street
or public place in the town, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary or unreasonable period of time.
Also, the use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electricity, the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine
exhaust, and the use of such signaling device when traffic is for any reason
held up;
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio receiver set, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for the convenience of the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle, or chamber in which such machine or device is operating and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument,
phonograph, machine or device at any time in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from the building, structure, or vehicle in
which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of the violation of this
provision;
      (3)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound, which is placed upon the
public street for the purpose of commercial advertising for attracting the
attention of the public to any building or structure;
      (4)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort, or repose of the persons in any office, dwelling, hotel, or
other type residence or any persons in the vicinity;
      (5)   Animals, birds, and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird
which by causing frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or
repose of any person in the vicinity;
      (6)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or
steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except those set to give
notice of the time to begin or stop working or as a warning of fire or danger,
or upon request of the proper town authorities;
      (7)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents
loud or explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle,
or other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (9)   Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud excessive
noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and containers;
      (10)   Construction or repair of buildings.
         (a)   The erection (including the excavation), demolition, alteration,
or repair of any building other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. on Mondays through Saturdays except in the case of urgent necessity, in
the interests of public health and safety, and then only with a permit from the
Zoning Administrator, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed
three days or less while the emergency continues and which permit may be
renewed for periods of three days or less while the emergency continues.
         (b)   If the Zoning Administrator should determine that the public
health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration,
or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Mondays through Saturdays and if he, she,
or they shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any
party in interest, he, she, or they may grant permission for such work to be
done within the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. upon application being made at
the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
         (c)   Under no circumstances may any work described in this division
(B)(10) be conducted at any time on a Sunday.
      (11)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church, or court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institution or unduly annoys
patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed on such
streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, or court street.
      (12)   Hawkers, peddlers. The shouting or crying of peddlers, hawkers,
and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet in the neighborhood;
      (13)   Drums. The use of any drums or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show,
or sale;
      (14)   Metal rails, pillars, and columns; transportation thereof. The
transportation of rails, pillars, or columns of iron, steel, or other material,
over and along the streets and other public places on carts, trains, cars,
trucks, or in any other manner, so loaded so as to cause loud noises or as to
disturb the peace and quiet of such streets or other public places;
      (15)   Pile drivers, hammers, and the like. The operation between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic
hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist, or other appliance, the use of which
is attended by loud and unusual noise; and
      (16)   Blowers. The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan
or any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to
the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower
or fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient
to deaden such noise.
(Prior Code, § 8-22) (Ord. passed 12-21-1989) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Industrial noise, see §
152.261
§ 91.47 ACTION IN CRIMINAL COURT.
   (A)   Any citizen, resident, or other person in the town who is annoyed,
disturbed, injured, or whose comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or general
welfare is endangered by any noise prohibited in §
91.46, shall have the right to proceed with an action in the criminal courts to
enforce such violation.
   (B)   Any police officer of the town or member of the county’s Sheriff’s
Department who may investigate a complaint with respect to any violation of §
91.46, shall have the right to institute an action in the county’s criminal
courts for the purpose of enforcing the violation against the alleged offender.
(Prior Code, § 8-23) (Ord. passed 12-21-1989) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Law enforcement, generally, see §§
31.01 through
31.10
§ 91.48 MANNER OF ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of any part of this subchapter shall be prosecuted in
the same manner as any other misdemeanor violation of the town code.
   (B)   Any police officer shall issue a verbal warning to cease such
violation.
   (C)   No citation shall be issued in the event the cause of the violation is
removed or the condition is abated or fully corrected immediately.
   (D)   In the event the alleged violator cannot be located in order to serve
notice of the intention to prosecute, the notice as is required herein shall be
deemed to be given upon mailing such notice by registered or certified mail to
the alleged violator at his, her, or their last known address or at the place
where the violation occurred, in which event the five-day period shall commence
at the date of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-24) (Ord. passed 12-21-1989)
§ 91.49 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   As an additional remedy, any violation of any part of this chapter or any
provision hereof, which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of
normal sensitivity or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, or peace or
residents in the area shall be deemed and is declared to be a public nuisance,
and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or injunction
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-25) (Ord. passed 12-21-1989)
PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
§ 91.60 SWIMMING POOL CONSTRUCTION, USE, AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Scum, splash and deck water. The construction of a swimming pool shall
be made in such a manner that all scum, splash and deck water shall not return
to the pool except through the filter system.
   (B)   Sediment, debris and floating material. Swimming pools shall be kept
free at all times of floating material, sediment and debris, by means of an
automatic surface skimmer, by a scum gutter or by some other means approved by
the county’s Health Department.
   (C)   Recirculating and filtering systems. The entire recirculating system
shall be capable of filtering and recirculating the equivalent volume content
of the pool during a 12-hour period. The rate of application of pool water on
the filter shall not be greater than three gallons per minute per square foot
of filter area. The county’s Health Department may approve other rates of
recirculation or rates of application of water on the filters.
   (D)   Germ and bacterial control. A provision shall be made for positive
germicidal or bacterial control by the use of chlorine, bromine, or other such
disinfecting agent as may be approved by the county’s Health Department.
      (1)   Such disinfecting agents shall be applied to the pool water at a
uniform rate.
      (2)   Provisions shall be made for adjusting the application thereof so
as to keep the germicidal or bacterial protection of the water in the pool
equal to a standard of 0.1 parts per million to 0.5 parts per million chlorine
residual. The pH of the water shall be maintained at a minimum of 7.4 and a
maximum of 8.0.
      (3)   Testing devices capable of accurately measuring such germicidal
residual and pH factors shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-41)
   (E)   Inspections. The county’s Health Department and the Zoning
Administrator shall have the right at any reasonable hour to inspect any
swimming pool for the purposes of determining that all provisions of this
section are fulfilled and complied with.
(Prior Code, § 12-42)
(Ord. passed 12-18-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Filling and draining swimming pools, see §
50.06
   Swimming pool construction requirements, see §
150.27
   Swimming pool permit requirements, see §
150.41
§ 91.61 AUTHORIZATION FOR DUMPING AND UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING.
   (A)   Unauthorized dumping of garbage, rubbish, cans, bottles, trash, brush,
leaves, industrial, animal or poultry wastes anywhere within the city limits of
the town is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 12-21)
   (B)   Authorization for dumping as defined in division (A) above is to be
granted in the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners for the town upon
majority vote in regular session of such Board, and is to be granted, if at
all, only upon written application presented to the Board of Commissioners at
regular meetings of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 12-22)
(Ord. passed 10-1-1993) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person failing to remove offending matter as described in §§
91.30 and
91.31 within ten days of duly given notice shall be liable to the town for a
penalty of $25 for each day that the offense continues beyond the ten day
period after due notice is given, and a failure to pay such penalty within ten
days of the final assessment thereof shall, in addition to the penalty stated
above, constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such person to fine or imprisonment
as provided in state statutes.
      (2)   Any person violating this chapter by allowing animal or vegetable
matter in such dangerous condition as to admit no delay in its removal to
remain on any premises or lot within the town, so as to necessitate the
immediate removal of the same by the town, shall be liable to the town for a
penalty of $50, in addition to the costs of removal of the same as prescribed
in division (B) below, and failure to pay such penalty and such charges within
ten days of the final assessment thereof shall, in addition to the penalty
stated above, constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such person to fine or
imprisonment as provided in state statutes.
      (3)   The civil penalties provision established in this division (A)
shall only apply to properties within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-5)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of any such premises
or lot to remove therefrom, in the time indicated by duly given notice from the
Mayor or someone designated by him, her, or them, or by final determination of
the Board of Commissioners, the offending matter as aforesaid, the Mayor of the
town may direct employees of the town to go upon such premises or lot and
remove there from the offending matter described in §§
91.30 and
91.31; provided, however, that if the animal or vegetable matter is in such
dangerous condition as to admit no delay in its removal, the Mayor may, without
said notice, direct and effect the removal of the same.
      (2)   Upon the completion of such removal, the town employee removing the
matter as directed shall deliver to the town’s Tax Collector a statement
showing the actual cost thereof, which statement shall include costs of
demolition; labor; waste remediation, including the removal of asbestos and
other hazardous materials; hauling and other necessary items of expense, plus
the sum of $1 to cover the cost of notice and cost of collection.
      (3)   The town’s Tax Collector shall thereupon mail to the owner of the
premises or lot a bill covering such costs, if with reasonable diligence the
name and address of such owner can be ascertained, and if the amount of such
bill shall become a lien upon said premises or lot.
      (4)   If not paid within 30 days, it shall become a lien upon said
premises or lot.
      (5)   A lien established pursuant to this section shall have the same
priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
      (6)   The expense of the action shall also be a lien on any other real
property owned by the person in default within the town limits or within one
mile thereof except for the person’s primary residence; this second lien shall
be inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
(Prior Code, § 8-7)
   (C)   Assessment and enforcement of said lien as provided in this section
shall be in addition to, and shall not be computed as a reduction or in
mitigation of, the penalty and/or fine provided in division (B) above. Any
defect in the method of rendering notice required by §
91.33, or in the form thereof, shall not prevent the town, in any case where
the work of removing the offending matter from any premises or lot is actually
done by the town, from collecting the cost thereof from the owner, nor shall it
affect the validity of the lien on such premises or lot for such costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-7)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
91.45 through
91.49 after duly given notice shall be subject to civil penalties as set forth
herein.
      (2)   The first violation of §§
91.45 through
91.49 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50.
      (3)   The second violation within 90 days from the first violation shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100.
      (4)   The third and any additional subsequent violations within 90 days
from the first violation shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $200.
      (5)   Civil penalties assessed pursuant to this section that remain
unpaid for over 30 days may be recovered by the town in an action in the nature
of debt. The town may also seek appropriate injunctive.
      (6)   In addition, second and subsequent violations by the same offender
from the same source shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than $500.
      (7)   The town may use any one, or any combination of available remedies
provided by law to address violations of the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-26)
   (E)   Any person violating §
91.61 shall be liable to the town for a penalty of $100, and failure to pay
such penalty within ten days shall, in addition to the penalty stated above,
constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such person to fine or imprisonment as
provided for in state laws.
(Prior Code, § 12-23)
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
91.01 through
91.03,
91.15 through
91.19,
91.60, and
91.61 within ten days of duly given notice shall be liable to the town for a
penalty of $50 for each day that the offense continues beyond the ten-day
period after due notice is given, and failure to pay such penalty within ten
days of the final assessment thereof shall, in addition to the penalty stated
above, constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such person to fine or imprisonment
as provided in G.S. §§ 14-4, 160A-193, and 160A-303.
(Prior Code, § 12-53)
(Ord. passed 10-8-1970; Ord. passed 3-4-1971; Ord. passed 6-17-2004)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Scope
   
92.02   Abandoned vehicles
   
92.03   Junked vehicles
   
92.04   Prohibited on public streets, alleys, or highways
   
92.05   Removal procedure and redemption
   
92.06   Disclaimer of liability
   
92.07   Certain vehicles exempt
   
92.08   Storage of unlicensed motor vehicles
§ 92.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter provides for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
and junked motor vehicles by the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-11)
§ 92.02 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   A motor vehicle shall be deemed to have been abandoned if:
   (A)   It is left unattended upon a street or highway for longer than 12
hours in violation of a law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
   (B)   It is left unaccompanied on property owned or operated by the town for
a period longer than 24 hours;
   (C)   It is left unaccompanied on any public street, alley, or highway for a
period longer than seven days; or
   (D)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
§ 92.03 JUNKED VEHICLES.
   A JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE is a vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
   (A)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
   (B)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
   (C)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500 or
is more than five years old.
(Prior Code, § 8-13)
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS, OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   If an abandoned or junked motor vehicle is left on a public street,
alley, or highway within the town, it shall be the duty and responsibility of
the owner of such motor vehicle to cause the removal thereof immediately and to
pay all costs incident to such removal. It shall be unlawful for the owner to
allow the motor vehicle to remain abandoned on a public street, public alley,
or highway after notice has been duly given to the owner to have the vehicle
removed.
   (B)   No abandoned or junked motor vehicle shall be kept on private property
except in accordance with §§
92.07 or
92.08.
(Prior Code, § 8-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 REMOVAL PROCEDURE AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Abandoned motor vehicles.
      (1)   Whenever any motor vehicle is abandoned on a public street, alley,
or highway, on property owned or operated by the town, or on private property,
such vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of the Chief of Police or
the Zoning Administrator to a storage garage or area.
      (2)   However, no such vehicle shall be removed from private property
without the written request or permission of the owner, lessee, or occupant
thereof unless the same has been declared by the Chief of Police, Zoning
Administrator or the Board of Commissioners to be a health or safety hazard, in
which case the vehicle may be towed in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Junked motor vehicles. Any junked motor vehicles found to be in
violation of this chapter may be removed to a storage garage or area, but no
such vehicle shall be removed from private property without the written request
of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises unless the Chief of Police,
Zoning Administrator or the Board of Commissioners finds in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (C)   Notice and hearing procedure.
      (1)   Towing notification. Whenever a vehicle is towed pursuant to this
section, the town staff shall immediately notify the last known registered
owner of the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned
to him, her, or them; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
      (2)   Notice of registered vehicles.
         (a)   If the vehicle has a state registration plate or state vehicle
registration, the town staff shall give notice to the owner within 24 hours
after the towing; if the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall
be given to the owner within 72 hours after the towing.
         (b)   This notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether
or not the owner is reached by telephone, written notice shall be mailed to
his, her, or their last known address by first class mail and certified mail,
unless owner or the owner’s agent waives this notice in writing.
      (3)   Notice of unregistered vehicles.
         (a)   No pre-towing notice is required for any vehicle that impedes
the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardizes the public welfare so that
immediate towing is necessary.
         (b)   After the towing is complete, the town staff shall provide the
post-towing notice required by this section.
         (c)   Whenever a vehicle has neither a valid registration plate nor a
valid registration, the town staff shall make reasonable efforts to provide
notice of towing, including the following:
         (a)   Check the vehicle identification number, to determine the last
known registered owner of the vehicle and to notify him, her, or them of the
information listed in division (C)(1) above within a reasonable time after the
towing; and
         (b)   Post written notice on the windshield of the vehicle or some
other conspicuous place at least seven days before the towing occurs.
      (4)   Hearing.
         (a)   The owner or any other person entitled to claim possession of
the vehicle may request in writing a hearing to determine if probable cause
existed for the towing. The request shall be filed with a county magistrate.
The magistrate shall set the hearing within 72 hours of receiving the request.
The owner, the person who requested the hearing if someone other than the
owner, the tower, and the person who authorized the towing shall be notified of
the time and place of the hearing.
         (b)   The owner, the tower, the person who authorized the towing, and
any other interested parties may present evidence at the hearing. The person
authorizing the towing and the tower may submit an affidavit in lieu of
appearing personally, but the affidavit does not preclude that person from
testifying.
         (c)   The only issue at the hearing is whether or not probable cause
existed for the towing. If the magistrate finds that probable cause did exist,
the tower’s lien continues. If the magistrate finds that probable cause did not
exist, the tower’s lien is extinguished. The town shall provide compensation to
the tower if the magistrate finds no probable cause existed for the towing.
         (d)   Any aggrieved party may appeal the magistrate’s decision to
District Court.
      (5)   Possession. At any stage in the proceedings, including before the
probable cause hearing, the vehicle owner may obtain possession of his, her, or
their vehicle by:
         (a)   Paying the towing fee; or
         (b)   Posting a bond for double the amount of the towing fee.
      (6)   Contesting the lien. The tower may seek to enforce his, her, or
their lien or the owner may seek to contest the lien pursuant to G.S. Ch. 44A.
(Prior Code, § 8-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Neither the town nor any person shall be held to answer any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any abandoned, lost, or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as set
forth in this section.
   (B)   Any person who removes a vehicle pursuant to this section shall not be
held liable for damages for the removal of the vehicle to the owner,
lienholder, or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle
removed; however, any person who intentionally or negligently damages a vehicle
in the removal of such vehicle, or intentionally or negligently inflicts injury
upon any person in the removal of such vehicle, may be held liable for damages.
(Prior Code, § 8-17)
§ 92.07 CERTAIN VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any vehicle in an enclosed building;
   (B)   Any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in
a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise;
   (C)   Any vehicle in any storage area maintained by the town; or
   (D)   Any motor vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or
personal use.
(Prior Code, § 8-18)
§ 92.08 STORAGE OF UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit, on premises under the control
of such person, the storage, outside a fully enclosed structure, of a motor
vehicle that does not display current license plates and a current inspection
sticker unless either.
      (1)   The vehicle is stored under and fully covered by a tarp. A vehicle
stored under a tarp must be stored in the rear of property behind the dwelling
or other principal building and not be visible (i.e. it must be obscured buy a
fence or other screening) from adjourning properties or public rights-of-way.
No more than one vehicle may be stored under a tarp pursuant to this section.
      (2)   A permit has been issued for such vehicle under this section;
provided that:
         (a)   The restrictions of this section shall not apply to any person
until 45 days after the Administrator initially notifies the responsible person
that a permit is required under this section;
         (b)   An application for an initial permit under this section shall be
made to the Town Clerk on a form prescribed by the town within 30 days after
the Administrator notifies the responsible person that a permit is required
under this section. Permits shall be valid for a period of one year from the
date of issuance. The Administrator shall send to the permittee an application
for a renewal permit at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit,
and an application for a renewal permit must be submitted to the Town Clerk at
least 15 days prior to expiration of the permit;
         (c)   Any person who submits a completed permit application pursuant
to this division (A)(2) shall be issued a permit under this division (A)(2) if:
            1.   The applicant pays an annual permit fee of $100;
            2.   The vehicle is neither dismantled nor wrecked; and
            3.   The applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Administrator either that:
               a.   The vehicle is operable;
               b.   The vehicle is capable of being made operable and the
applicant is in process of repairing the vehicle such that it will be made
operable within a period of not more than one year. When a vehicle has remained
inoperable for a continuous period of one year or more after the issuance
pursuant to this division (A) of a permit that was premised upon a finding of
compliance with this section; or
               c.   The applicant demonstrates that he, she, or they owns or
leases the property on which the vehicle is stored or has the written
permission of the owner or lessee of such property to store the vehicle at that
location.
         (d)   If the Administrator denies an application for an initial or
renewal permit on the basis that the applicant has failed to demonstrate that
the vehicle is operable or can be made operable within a period of one year,
the applicant may appeal this determination to the Town Board within 30 days of
the Administrator’s decision. The Board shall hear and decide this appeal in
the same manner as the Board of Adjustment hears an appeal of a decision of
Zoning Administrator. The Board shall decide the appeal by majority vote, a
quorum being present. The Board may find that a vehicle is capable of being
made operable within a period of one year even if the vehicle has remained
inoperable for a period of one year or more after the issuance of a previous
permit under this section.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the Administrator shall be any
person designated by the Town Board to perform the functions and exercise the
responsibilities assigned by this section to the Administrator.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to persons, lawfully engaged in a
business necessitating such storage so long as such business has received all
legally required state and local permits and licenses.
(Prior Code, § 8-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Right of entry for fire protection purposes
   
93.02   Consent required for steam engine
   
93.03   Open burning
   
93.04   Receptacles required
   
93.05   Accumulation of combustible waste
   
93.06   Maintenance of chimneys, smokestacks, and furnaces
   
93.07   Fire extinguishers required in certain buildings
   
93.08   Assistance from citizens
   
93.09   Investigation of fires
   
93.10   Enforcement of state codes
   
93.11   Fire inspection permit schedule and fees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR FIRE PROTECTION PURPOSES.
   Any member of the Fire Department, or any person acting under the orders of
the Chief of the Department, shall have the right to go on the premises of any
person, enter any building or room, insert a fire hose, and turn on the water
whenever, in the judgment of the Chief, it shall be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994)
§ 93.02 CONSENT REQUIRED FOR STEAM ENGINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be erected any
steam engine within the fire limits without first obtaining the consent of the
Board of Commissioners and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   This section shall regulate open burning within the town limits. All
types of open burning, including but not limited to bonfires, are subject to
the requirements of 15A NCAC 2D.1901 through 2D.1904, any subsequently adopted
amendments thereto, and all other applicable state statutes and regulations.
The terms used in this section shall have the same meaning as the terms defined
in 15A NCAC 2D.1902. To the extent this section differs from current state open
burning rules, the more restrictive standard shall govern.
   (B)   No open burning of any kind shall be allowed when the state or any of
its agencies prohibits such activities in the town area.
   (C)   Because the town provides public yard waste pick-up service, the open
burning of yard waste is prohibited. For the purposes of this section, “yard
waste” includes leaves, tree branches, and other yard trimmings that are
collected by the town through its yard waste pick-up service.
   (D)   The following types of open burning are permitted without an air
quality permit issued by the state’s Division of Air Quality:
      (1)    Camp fires, bonfires, and other fires used solely for outdoor
cooking and other recreational purposes, for ceremonial occasions, or for human
warmth and comfort and which do not create a public or private nuisance and do
not use synthetic materials or refuse or salvageable materials for fuel. No
bonfire shall be permitted unless written approval for the bonfire has first
been obtained from the town’s Fire Chief;
      (2)   Open burning for land clearing and right-of-way maintenance. Prior
to starting a fire pursuant to this section, the property owner must obtain
written approval from the state’s Division of Air Quality and the town’s Fire
Chief. The property owner shall give the town’s Fire Chief a copy of the
Division of Air Quality approval;
      (3)   Fires purposely set to public or private forest land for forest
management practices for which burning is acceptable to the state’s Division of
Forest Resources and which follows the smoke management plan as outline in the
state’s Division of Forest Resources’ smoke management program. Prior to
starting a fire pursuant to this section, the property owner must obtain
written approval from the state’s Division of Forest Resources and the town’s
Fire Chief. The property owner shall give the town’s Fire Chief a copy of the
Division of Forest Resources approval;
      (4)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease and pest
control and fires set for other agricultural practices for which burning is
currently acceptable to the state’s Department of Agriculture. Prior to
starting a fire pursuant to this section, the property owner must obtain
written approval from the state’s Department of Agriculture and the town’s Fire
Chief. The property owner shall give the town’s Fire Chief a copy of the
Department of Agriculture approval;
      (5)   Fires purposely set for wildfire management practices for which
burning is currently acceptable to the state’s Wildlife Resource Commission.
Prior to starting a fire pursuant to this division (D), the property owner must
obtain written approval from the state’s Wildlife Resource Commission, and a
copy of the approval must be provided to the town’s Fire Chief;
      (6)   Fires for the disposal of dangerous materials when it is the safest
and most practical method of disposal. Prior to starting a fire pursuant to
this division (D), the property owner must first obtain written approval from
the state’s Division of Air Quality Fayetteville Regional Office and the town’s
Fire Chief;
      (7)   (a)   Fires purposely set by manufacturers of fire extinguishing
materials or equipment, testing laboratories, or other purposes, for the
purpose of testing or developing these materials or equipment in accordance
with a standard qualification program.
         (b)   Prior to starting a fire pursuant to this section, the
manufacturer, laboratory or other person must obtain written approval from the
town’s Fire Chief.
         (c)   If the fire or fires are part of an ongoing operation, the
manufacturer must also obtain any necessary zoning approvals;
      (8)   Fires purposely set for the instructions and training of
firefighting personnel at permanent firefighting training facilities. No fire
shall be permitted pursuant to this division (D) unless written approval for
the fire has first has first been obtained from the town’s Fire Chief;
      (9)   No fire shall be permitted pursuant to this section unless written
approval for the fire has been obtained from the town’s Fire Chief. Fires
purposely set for the instruction and training of firefighting personnel when
conducted under the supervision of or with the cooperation of one or more of
the following agencies:
         (a)   The Division of Forest Resources;
         (b)   The state’s Insurance Department;
         (c)   State technical institutes; or
         (d)   State community colleges, including:
            1.   The North Carolina Fire College; or
            2.   The North Carolina Rescue College.
      (10)   Fires not described in divisions (D)(7), (D)(8), or (D)(9) above,
purposely set for the instruction and training of fire-fighting personnel,
provided that.
         (a)   The state’s Division of Air Quality Fayetteville Regional Office
Supervisor and the state’s Division of Epidemiology Health Hazards Control
Branch have been notified according to the procedures and deadlines contained
in the appropriate regional notification form.
         (b)   The Fayetteville Regional Office Supervisor has granted
permission for the burning. Factors that the Regional Office Supervisor shall
consider in granting permission for the burning include type, amount, and
nature of combustible substances. The Regional Office Supervisor shall not
grant permission for the burning of salvageable items, such as insulated wire
and electric motors or if the primary purpose of the fire is to dispose of
synthetic materials or refuse. The Regional Office Supervisor shall not
consider previously demolished structures as having training value. However,
the Regional Office Supervisor may allow an exercise involving the burning of
motor vehicles burned over a period of time by a training unit or by several
related training units. Any deviations from the dates and times of exercises,
including additions, postponements, and deletions, submitted in the schedule in
the approved plan shall be communicated verbally to the Regional Office
Supervisor at least one hour before the burn is scheduled.
         (c)   The fire has been approved in writing by the town’s Fire Chief.
      (11)   Fires for the disposal of material generated as a result of a
natural disaster, including but not limited to a tornado, hurricane, or flood,
if the state’s Division of Air Quality Fayetteville Regional Office Supervisor
and the town’s Fire Chief both grant written or oral permission for the
burning. The person desiring to do the burning shall document and provide
written notification to the Regional Office Supervisor that there is no other
practical method of disposal of the waste. Factors that the regional Office
Supervisor shall consider in granting permission for the burning if the primary
purpose of the fire is to dispose of synthetic materials or refuse or recovery
of salvageable materials. Fires authorized under this division (D) shall comply
with the conditions of division (B) above.
         (a)   Air curtain burners are permitted with written approval from the
state’s Division of Air Quality and the town’s Fire Chief. An air curtain
burners operator shall also obtain an air quality permit from the state’s
Division of Air Quality, if such a permit is required by 15A NCAC 2D.1904(a) or
other applicable laws. The operator must give copies of the Division of Air
Quality approval and any required air quality permit to the town’s Fire Chief.
         (b)   The authority to conduct open burning under this section does
not exempt or excuse any person from the consequences, damages, or injuries
that may result from open burning, and compliance with this section does not
excuse or exempt any person from complying with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules or orders of any other governmental entity having
jurisdiction over open burning.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall deposit ashes, smoldering coals, or embers, grease,
oily substances, or other matter liable to spontaneous ignition within 15 feet
of any wooden or plastered wall, partition, fence, floor, sidewalk, limber,
hay, shavings, rubbish, or other combustible material, except in metallic or
other noncombustible receptacles.
   (B)   The receptacles, unless resting on the ground outside the building,
shall be placed on noncombustible stands, and in every case shall be kept at
least tow feet from any wall or partition.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the deposit of cold or wet ashes
or cinders for the improvement of any unpaved alley or walkway.
(Prior Code, § 10-5) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ACCUMULATION OF COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.
   No person shall permit any accumulation of waste paper, weeds, litter, or
combustible or inflammable waste or rubbish of any kind to remain on any roof
or in any court, yard, vacant lot, or other open space. Every owner or occupant
of property shall cut down and remove therefrom all weeds, grass, vines, and
other growth which endangers the property or any other property which is likely
to be burned.
(Prior Code, § 10-6) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.06 MAINTENANCE OF CHIMNEYS, SMOKESTACKS, AND FURNACES.
   All chimneys, smokestacks, and similar devices for conveying smoke or gases
to the outer air, and the stoves, furnaces, fire boxes, or boilers to which
they are connected shall be maintained in such manner as not to endanger
adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 10-7) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.07 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS REQUIRED IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS.
   Hand or portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in every store,
factory, garage, or other building in the town where readily inflammable
material is stored, handled, kept, or sold. Such fire extinguishers shall be
subject to inspection by the Fire Chief or his, her, or their designee.
(Prior Code, § 10-8) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ASSISTANCE FROM CITIZENS.
   During the continuance of any fire, the Fire Chief and each member of the
Fire Department shall have the power to call on any person to assist in
extinguishing the fire, or in removing to a safe place any goods, wares,
merchandise, or furniture from any building on fire or in danger. No person
shall fail to obey any such order. It shall be the duty of any able-bodied
person at any fire, at the command of the Fire Chief, to assist the
firefighters in managing the hose or other equipment, or to perform any
reasonable service in the prevention or extinguishing of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 10-9) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.09 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   Immediately after the occurrence of any fire, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause, origin, and
circumstances thereof, and as far as possible, shall determine whether the fire
was the result of accident.
(Prior Code, § 10-10) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994)
§ 93.10 ENFORCEMENT OF STATE CODES.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the town for
the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life
and property from fire or explosion, that certain code, known as the “North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code,” also known as the “International Fire Code”
with North Carolina Amendments as currently adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council. Additionally, the Board of Commissioners adopts all
permits contained in section 105, both operational and construction, both
optional and mandatory. Further, the Board of Commissioners adopts Appendix B,
Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings, Appendix C, Fire Hydrant Locations and
Distribution, Appendix D, Fire Apparatus Access Roads and Appendix H, Hazardous
Materials Management Plan (HMMP), and Hazardous Materials Inventory Statement
(HMIS) Instructions.
   (B)   Not less than three copies of the adopted codes shall be on file in
the office of the Town Clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out in length herein, and the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code and standards shall control within the limits of the town and
the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 10-21) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994)
§ 93.11 FIRE INSPECTION PERMIT SCHEDULE AND FEES.
   Fire inspections will be conducted as required by the state’s Fire
Prevention Code. The county’s Fire Inspector will periodically inspect, and do
follow-up inspections as necessary and required by law. A schedule of fees
pertaining to this section shall be approved by the county’s Board of
Commissioners and maintained on record in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-22) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994; Ord.
passed 5-15-1997)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   A schedule of penalties pertaining to this chapter shall be approved by the
county’s Board of Commissioners and maintained on record in the office of the
Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-22) (Ord. passed 11-21-1989; Ord. passed 9-22-1994; Ord.
passed 5-15-1997)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Burial restrictions
   
94.02   Structure restrictions
   
94.03   Tombstone and monument restrictions
   
94.05   Cemetery visiting hours
   
94.06   Funds for maintenance of town cemeteries
   
94.07   Price of grave spaces and collection
   
94.08   Restrictions on size
   
94.09   Restriction of grave site sales
   
94.10   Reselling grave sites
§ 94.01 BURIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of any person
within the corporate limits of the town other than in a duly established
cemetery or other burial ground.
   (B)   Town cemeteries shall be used for the sole purpose of human burials.
   (C)   For each cemetery plot there shall only be one casket or there shall
be no more than two urns per cemetery plot. Any person may add one urn with one
casket for new interments. Urns shall be placed by a professional or a
designated town employee and the location of the urn shall be decided by a
designated town employee.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury a casket in the town’s
cemetery without a vault.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 STRUCTURE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any structure (wall, fence,
buildings, and the like) other than memorial markers and visitor accommodations
provided for by the town on the town’s cemetery premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 TOMBSTONE AND MONUMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Memorial markers are required and must be of a type approved by the
Town Board for erection in the town’s cemetery.
   (B)   To place an urn in a cemetery plot a memorial marker is required and
must be at least two by one by four feet in size or a name plat shall be
installed on the original memorial marker.
   (C)   Town personnel shall install memorial corner markers for each plot at
the time the plot(s) are purchased. The additional charge for this service is
maintained on file at the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-3) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 CEMETERY VISITING HOURS.
   Visiting hours for the town’s cemetery shall be established by the Town
Board and shall be conspicuously posted at the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § 6-4) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976)
§ 94.06 FUNDS FOR MAINTENANCE OF TOWN CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The sum of $25 from the sale of each grave site in the town’s cemetery
shall deposited in a Perpetual Care Trust Fund for the perpetual care and
beautification of the town’s cemetery premises. The remainder of the proceeds
from the sale of any grave site shall be placed in a separate fund to be used
for capital improvements, land acquisition, upkeep, opening and closing of
graves, beautification and management of the town’s cemetery and any and all
tools and equipment necessary for same.
   (B)   The town cemetery’s Perpetual Care Trust Fund shall be kept separate
and apart from all other town funds and in no case utilized by the town for any
purpose other than the care of the town’s cemeteries.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the appropriate Commissioner to ensure
that the appropriate upkeep, beautification, and management of the town’s
cemetery are maintained.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976; Ord. passed 7-12-1983)
§ 94.07 PRICE OF GRAVE SPACES AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The price for a single grave space in the town’s cemetery shall be set
by the Town Board. No partial payments shall be allowed toward the purchase of
any grave space.
   (B)   The total price for a space shall be paid to the Town Clerk for the
Perpetual Care Trust Fund prior to a grave opening.
   (C)   Four corner markers will be included in the purchase price, but the
cost of installation of these corner markers by town personnel will be an
additional charge, as described in §
94.03.
   (D)   Cemetery plots bought in Section II can be exchanged from Section II
to Section III for the cost of administrative fees which will be set by the
Town Board and on file in the Town Clerk’s office. If the cemetery plot
purchased in Section II does not have corner markers then corner markers will
need to be purchased at cost.
(Prior Code, § 6-6) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 RESTRICTIONS ON SIZE.
   The minimum size of a grave site shall be four feet, eight and one-half
inches by ten feet.
(Prior Code, § 6-10) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 RESTRICTION OF GRAVE SITE SALES.
   (A)   Grave sites will be sold to residents and nonresidents of the town.
   (B)   The Town Board shall set one price for residents of the town and an
additional amount for non-residents and their families.
   (C)   Volunteer firefighters with five years of service may purchase plots
at the town rate for themselves, his, her, or their spouse and children.
   (D)   The town will give a plot to any town employee or volunteer
firefighter that is killed while on duty for the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-8) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976)
§ 94.10 RESELLING GRAVE SITES.
   Grave sites may be re-sold to the town only. The town will refund an owner’s
purchase price for any unused grave site upon owner supplying a deed for such
grave site to the town.
(Prior Code, § 6-9) (Ord. passed 6-3-1976)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Use of town recreational facilities
   
95.02   Hours of operation
   
95.03   Littering prohibited
   
95.04   Rules of conduct
Lake
   
95.15   Lake pin required
   
95.16   Use of lake at own risk
   
95.17   Age limits
   
95.18   Proper attire required
   
95.19   No animals permitted in lake
   
95.20   Suspension of lake privileges
   
95.21   Boats
Cross-reference:
   Miniparks, see §§
152.300 and
152.301
   Usable open space, see §
152.302
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 USE OF TOWN RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Due to delicate natural environment and especially in the case of
Pinebluff Lake’s unique ecosystem, the town’s recreational facilities can
support only limited human activities if they are to be able to maintain
themselves in their natural condition. Therefore, use of the town’s
recreational facilities must be limited to a restricted population.
   (B)   The Pinebluff Lake shall be for the use of the residents and/or
property owners within the town; the members of their immediate families and
their guests as allowed per lake pin and no other persons except for; active
and retired members of the town’s Fire Department and their immediate families;
active members of the Planning Board and their immediate families; active
members of the Board of Adjustment and their immediate families; regularly paid
employees of the town and their immediate families; and no other persons except
when granted special permission by the Commissioner for Lake, Parks, and
Recreation or the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 18-1) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person including residents of the town to go
upon or use the town’s recreational facilities between dusk and dawn unless
granted permission by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 18-2) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any food, beverage,
paper, bottle, or other waste materials either in the lake or upon any
recreational facility property, and any person found to be doing so shall be
punished in accordance with the penalties hereinafter provided in this chapter
and may be summarily forbidden to use the facilities thereafter, by the Board
of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 18-3) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   In addition to the rules established in this chapter, the Board of
Commissioners may adopt and amend rules of conduct for any town park, town
recreational facility, and/or Pinebluff Lake.
(Prior Code, § 18-5) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001)
LAKE
§ 95.15 LAKE PIN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each person over the age of 12 years who is authorized by §
95.01 to use the lake facilities is required to purchase annually a lake pin
for admittance to said facility, at a price set by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Each authorized pin holder 18 or older is allowed to escort four
guests who may also use the facilities while in the physical presence of the
pin holder.
   (C)   The pin holder is responsible for each guest and the guests are only
allowed to be at the facility while the pin holder is present.
   (D)   An adult pin holder can take up to four of his, her, or their children
maximum per pin holder (they will not be counted as guest).
   (E)   A pin holder under the age of 18 years of age can not bring a guest
under the age of 12 years old.
   (F)   Lake pins will need to be shown to the lake attendant before entrance
into the water.
(Prior Code, § 18-21) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 USE OF LAKE AT OWN RISK.
   (A)   All persons using the Pinebluff Lake facilities shall exercise
reasonable precautions to protect themselves and others in the swimming area
and elsewhere on said property, and all persons using the lake and surrounding
area and facilities shall do so at their own risk, and may not in any way hold
accountable the town nor any of its employees while using said lake and
surrounding area and facilities.
   (B)   The town shall post adequate signage at the lake to warn users that
they use the lake and surrounding facilities at their own risk.
   (C)   A child possessing a lake pin will be authorized to use the lake as if
he, she, or they were 12 years of age or older, any guest must be 18 years old
or older.
(Prior Code, § 18-22) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17 AGE LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 12 years to use
the lake and the lake facilities without being accompanied by and in direct
personal charge of his, her, or their parent or some other responsible adult
person 18 years of age or older other than the lifeguard.
   (B)   A parent may obtain an exception to the section by providing proof of
a child under the age of 12 years having obtained Red Cross swimming
certification at a minimum level of intermediate. If a parent can show such
certification to the lifeguard, the parent will be authorized to purchase a
lake pin, as described in §
95.15, and the child possessing the pin will be authorized to use the lake as
if he, she, or they were 12 years of age or older. The lifeguards will not
babysit such exceptions, but will regard them in the same manner as any other
owner of a lake pin.
(Prior Code, § 18-23) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.18 PROPER ATTIRE REQUIRED.
   Pinebluff Lake being a family environment, it shall be unlawful for any
person using said lake to do so without being properly covered in such a manner
as to protect his, her, or their person from indecent exposure.
(Prior Code, § 18-24) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.19 NO ANIMALS PERMITTED IN LAKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dogs or other animals to
swim, or fail to prevent same from swimming in the swimming section of the lake
or in any other way come in contact with the water of the swimming area of the
lake at any time between Memorial Day and Labor Day.
(Prior Code, § 18-25) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, generally, see
Chapter 90
§ 95.20 SUSPENSION OF LAKE PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   All Pinebluff Lake users must abide by the rules set forth in this
chapter and in other rules of conduct established by the town. Failure to abide
by the rules set forth in this chapter or in other rules of conduct may result
in expulsion from the lake and a suspension of lake privileges, up to and
including suspension for an entire season. A person may be expelled from the
lake permanently for the following reasons:
      (1)   The person has been convicted or a crime for an act or acts
committed while using lake facilities; or   
      (2)   The person repeatedly violates the rules set forth in this chapter
or other rules of conduct established by the town and has his, her, or their
lake privileges suspended for an entire season at least once before.
   (B)   In the event a person is suspended from the lake for a season or
permanently, the money the person paid for the lake pin will be refunded.
   (C)   Any person whose lake privileges have been suspended may appeal the
determination to the Board of Commissioners by filing written notice of appeal
with the Town Clerk within ten days of the date of the written notice of
suspension.
(Prior Code, § 18-26) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 BOATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to have any boat in the lake other
than powered by electric motors or paddles.
(Prior Code, § 18-27) (Ord. passed 7-6-1993; Ord. passed 6-18-1998; Ord. passed
12-21-2000; Ord. passed 1-18-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND PARKWAYS
Section
   
96.01   Minimum requirements for streets
   
96.02   Uniform numbering system for blocks, streets, and avenues
   
96.03   House numbering
   
96.04   Prohibition of certain signs on town rights-of-way
§ 96.01 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The design of all streets and roads shall be in accordance with
the accepted policies of the state’s Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways, as taken or modified from the American Association of State Highway
Officials (AASHO) manuals.
      (2)   The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the existing
street system of the surrounding area.
      (3)   Where possible, proposed streets shall be the extension of existing
streets.
   (B)   All subdivision streets and roads shall be constructed to meet the
current requirements of the state’s Department of Transportation, Division of
Highways, standards for state maintenance for secondary roads.
(Prior Code, § 21-1) (Ord. passed 8-2-1979)
§ 96.02 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR BLOCKS, STREETS, AND AVENUES.
   (A)   All blocks are as designated on the official map of the town.
      (1)   The southeasterly block at the corner of Boston Avenue and Peach
Street is designated as Block A1.
      (2)   Blocks are numbered northward 1 to 4, and lettered westward A to J,
thus the northwesterly block at the corner of Chicago Avenue and Vineland
Street is designated Block J4.
(Prior Code, § 21-2)
   (B)   All streets and avenues are as designated on the official map of the
town.
      (1)   All streets run in a generally northerly and southerly direction.
      (2)   All avenues run in a generally easterly and westerly direction.
(Prior Code, § 21-3)
(Ord. passed 1- -1976)
§ 96.03 HOUSE NUMBERING.
   (A)   (1)   On the avenues (running east and west), numbers shall progress
eastward and westward from Walnut Street.
      (2)   In the progression westward from Walnut Street on all avenues,
numbers on lots shall increase in increments of ten, beginning with the number
five on the north side, and in increments of ten, beginning with the number ten
on the south side.
      (3)   In the progression from Walnut Street eastward on all avenues,
numbers on lots shall increase in increments of ten, beginning with the number
five on the south side, and in increments of ten, beginning with the number
ten, on the north side.
   (B)   (1)   On the streets (running north and south), numbers shall progress
both northward and southward from Philadelphia Avenue.
      (2)   In the progression northward from Philadelphia Avenue on all
streets, numbers on lots shall increase in increments of ten, beginning with
the number five, on the east side, and in increments of ten, beginning with the
number ten, on the west side.
      (3)   In the progression southward from Philadelphia on all streets,
numbers on lots shall increase in increments of ten, beginning with the number
five, on the west side, and in increments of ten, beginning with the number
ten, on the east side.
   (C)   (1)   To assist rescue and emergency personnel to locate houses in the
town, all house owners shall ensure that house numbers are clearly visible from
the street on which the house is located.
      (2)   The house number must be clearly visible in daylight and also
visible during hours of darkness, when illuminated from the street.
(Prior Code, § 21-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN SIGNS ON TOWN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent visual clutter,
minimize traffic hazards, and maintain political neutrality. Municipalities
have a serious, essentially esthetic, duty to prohibit signs from being posted
on rights-of-way or on public property.
   (B)   Specifics. No person shall paint, mark or write on, or post or
otherwise affix, any political or commercial handbill or sign on the town’s
rights-of-way or upon any sidewalk, parkway, curb, electric light or power or
telephone wire pole, or upon any appurtenance thereof, or upon any lighting
system, drinking fountain, street sign, or traffic sign.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Political signs may be displayed around the polling place, no
closer than 50 feet from the polling place, on the day of any public election.
      (2)   Church or civic non-profit groups may display a sign for a
particular dated event up to three days prior to the event so long as it does
not obstruct a motorist’s view of the street, and is no larger than eight
square feet in size.
      (3)   Individual property owners may display a small (no larger than
three square feet) name and house number sign in front of their homes on the
town’s right-of-way so long as it does not create a problem for the town in
mowing or maintaining the parkway.
   (D)   Authority and enforcement. According to G.S. § 136-32, the town has
the authority to remove and destroy unlawfully posted political, commercial, or
other kinds of signs not expressly permitted under this chapter. Further, it
has the power and authority to remove unlawfully posted signs on state rights-
of-way which fall within the town’s boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 21-5) (Ord. passed 12-18-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Permit required
   
97.03   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
97.04   Certain activities prohibited
   
97.05   Revocation of permit
   
97.06   Interference prohibited
   
97.07   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
97.08   Exceptions
   
97.09   Appeal procedures
Cross-reference:
   Streets and parkways, see
Chapter 96
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons, or of or on behalf of any organization or class or
persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to such assembly.
   PARADE. Any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind in
or upon the public streets, sidewalks, parkways, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds or places.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 22-31) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
parkway, alley, or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor
has been issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 22-32) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his, her, or their designee is authorized to
issue permits as required in §
97.02 and in the issuance thereof he, she, or they shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of such parade, picket line, or group demonstration. Such
application shall:
         (a)   Be on a form prescribed by the Chief;
         (b)   Require the application to be signed by the applicant or
applicants; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant show:
            1.   The proposed time, place, purpose and size of such parade,
picket line or group demonstration; and
            2.   Whether or not any minors below the age of 18 years shall
participate.
      (2)   Refuse to issue such permit when:
         (a)   The activity or purpose stated in the application would violate
any ordinance of the town or any statute of the state; and/or
         (b)   When the activity or purpose would:
            1.   Constitute a clear and present danger to the public health or
safety; and/or
            2.   Hinder or prevent the orderly movement of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys, or sidewalks.
      (3)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18
years will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or
not such minors shall participate, and shall base his, her, or their
determination upon:
         (a)   Whether or not the purpose or time or place of the particular
activity will be detrimental to or endanger the health, safety, or welfare of
such minors; or
         (b)   Will interfere with their education.
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. Such
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group
demonstration and shall carry such permit with him, her, or them at that time.
Such permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person; and
      (5)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
         (a)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties;
         (b)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property
owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their
property;
         (c)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area;
         (d)   The activity will not prevent normal police and fire protection
to the public; and
         (e)   The activity will not be likely to cause injury to persons or
property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to create a public disturbance.
   (B)   The permit may:
      (1)   Set the starting time, duration, speed of travel, and space between
persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or group demonstration;
      (2)   Prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys, parkways,
sidewalks, or other public places to be used; and/or
      (3)   Impose such other reasonable requirements as the Chief may
prescribe for the control and free movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
or for the health, safety and property rights of the participants and the
general public.
(Prior Code, § 22-33) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.04 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or and weapon or
article (including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks, or
flashlights) which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(Prior Code, § 22-34) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
97.04; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 22-35) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.06 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 22-36) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than five feet from the curb line and shall be in
continuous motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalks for picketing and such use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of such sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(Prior Code, § 22-37) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where such activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; or
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 22-38) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 97.09 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit as provided in this
chapter shall have a right of appeal to the Town Board.
   (B)   Notice of the appeal must be given within five days after refusal of
the permit.
   (C)   The appeal will be heard by the Town Board at its next regular meeting
or at any special meeting the Board may set.
(Prior Code, § 22-39) (Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESSES, GENERALLY
      
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES, TAXATION, AND REGULATIONS
      
112.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESSES, GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Alcohol sales on Sunday
Door to Door Solicitation
   
110.15   Residential solicitations
   
110.16   “No Solicitation” or “No Trespassing” signs
   
110.17   Attempt to obtain invitation prohibited
Yard and Garage Sales
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   Regulations
   
110.32   Coverage
   
110.33   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ALCOHOL SALES ON SUNDAY.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the town at any
premises licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00
a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
Cross-reference:
   Consumption and possession of open containers of alcohol on public property,
see §
130.01
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION
§ 110.15 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATIONS.
   No person shall enter or remain upon any residential premises in the town,
not having been requested or invited by the occupant(s) thereof, for the
purpose of contacting said occupants to solicit the immediate or future
purchase or sale of goods, services, or any other thing of value. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to charitable, religious, or
political solicitations unless a “No Solicitation” or “No Trespassing” sign is
posted at or near the entrance(s) to such residence.
(Prior Code, § 5-1) (Ord. passed 6-16-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.16 “NO SOLICITATION” OR “NO TRESPASSING” SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall enter or remain upon any public or private premises in
the town, not having been requested or invited by the occupant(s) thereof, for
the purpose of soliciting the immediate or future purchase or sale of goods,
services or any other thing of value, or to solicit a gift or donation when a
“No Solicitation” or “No Trespassing” sign is posted at or near the entrance(s)
to such premises.
   (B)   This provision shall apply to all solicitations, including, without
limitation, those that are charitable, religious, or political in nature.
(Prior Code, § 5-2) (Ord. passed 6-16-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INVITATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall attempt to obtain, by telephone or otherwise, an invitation
to visit any private residence for the purpose of soliciting the purchase of
sale of goods, services, or any other thing of value, by knowingly making a
false or deceptive representation or statement.
(Prior Code, § 5-3) (Ord. passed 6-16-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
YARD AND GARAGE SALES
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his, her, or their residence and acquired in a normal
course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include merchandise
which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment; nor does it include
items specifically for sale. For example, no yard sale will be allowed for
selling crafts only.
   YARD SALES. Any sale open to the public conducted on residential or business
premises only for the purpose of disposing of personal property, and shall
   include all sales entitled garage, lawn, yard, attic, porch, room, back
yard, patio, or rummage sales.
(Prior Code, § 16-81) (Ord. passed 3-21-1996)
§ 110.31 REGULATIONS.
   No person shall conduct any yard sale or garage sale without first obtaining
a permit therefor from the town. All such sales shall be subject to the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Permit required. No sale shall be conducted until a permit has been
obtained from the Town Clerk. Prior to issuance of any permit, the individual
desiring to conduct the sale shall make a request with the Town Clerk at least
one day before the sale, setting forth the following information:
      (1)    Full name and address of applicant;
      (2)    The location of residence or business where the sale will be held;
      (3)    The date of the sale;
      (4)    The dates of any other sales within the current calendar year; and
      (5)    The affirmative statement that the property to be sold is owned by
the applicant as his, her, or their own personal property and was neither
acquired nor consigned for the purpose of resale.
   (B)   Fee. There shall be an administrative processing fee of $5 for the
issuance of the permit. No more than four permits shall be issued to one
residence or family household during the calendar year. If members of more than
one residence join in for a sale, each separate residence must obtain a permit.
   (C)   Hours of operation; time of sale. Will be limited to daylight hours.
If the sale is not held because of inclement weather, no additional permit fee
will be charged.
   (D)   Display of permit. The permit shall be posted on the premises where
the sale is authorized, where it can be seen from the street by the public.
   (E)   Advertising. No sign shall be exhibited for more than two days before
the sale. No sign shall be on utility poles or other private property. All
signs must be removed at the close of the sale, regardless of where located. No
more than two signs may be used on the site of the sale. All signs must comply
with
Chapter 152.
   (F)   Revocation or refusal of permit. Any permit issued may be revoked or
any application may be refused by the Town Clerk, if the application submitted
contains any false or misleading statements. If any individual is convicted of
an offense under this subchapter, the Town Clerk may not issue that individual
another sale permit for a period of two years from the date of the conviction.
(Prior Code, § 16-82) (Ord. passed 3-21-1996)
§ 110.32 COVERAGE.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or
affect persons selling goods pursuant to an order of court of competent
jurisdiction or persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as
public officials.
   (B)   Public nuisance. No permit holder shall allow loud or boisterous
conduct or allow vehicles to impede the passage of normal traffic. All
individuals shall obey the reasonable orders of the Police Department in order
to maintain the public safety and welfare.
   (C)   Inspections; arrest. A police officer shall have the right of entry to
any premises showing evidences of a sale for the purpose of enforcement or
inspection. He, she, or they may stop the sale and take steps as are necessary
against any individual who violates the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 16-83) (Ord. passed 3-21-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.33 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities are exempt from the requirement for a permit in
order to conduct sales of merchandise on residential or business premises:
   (A)   Any sale conducted by a church or any duly licensed merchant or other
business establishment from or at a place of business, wherein such sale will
be permitted by the zoning regulations of the town; and
   (B)   Any church or bona fide charitable or educational organization where
the proceeds from the sale are used directly for the organization’s charitable
purposes, in the Business District at said address.
(Prior Code, § 16-84) (Ord. passed 3-21-1996)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES, TAXATION, AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Construction of chapter
Levy
   
111.015   Levy
   
111.016   Applicability
   
111.017   Periods of license and due date
   
111.018   Proration of tax
   
111.019   Refunds
   
111.020   Separate businesses
   
111.021   Computation of tax based on gross receipts
   
111.022   Exemptions
Licenses
   
111.035   Application
   
111.036   Refusal or revocation of a license
   
111.037   Unqualified applicants, right to conference
   
111.038   Tax Collector to issue license, prerequisite
   
111.039   Amount of tax disputed
   
111.040   Revocation
   
111.041   Form and contents of license
   
111.042   Assignments
   
111.043   Changes in business conducted by licensee during tax year
   
111.044   Tax Collector to furnish duplicates
   
111.045   Record of conferences
   
111.046   Providing notice to applicant or licensee
Enforcement and Collection
   
111.060   Duty to determine whether tax is due
   
111.061   Tax Collector to investigate
   
111.062   Duty to keep books
   
111.063   Duty to permit inspection
   
111.064   Duty to post license
   
111.065   Notice of deficiency
   
111.066   Request for a conference
   
111.067   Deficiency to become final
   
111.068   Conference held
   
111.069   Collection of deficiency
   
111.070   Enforcement
Privilege License
   
111.085   Privilege license taxes
   
111.086   Electronic gaming sales
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise taxed under this chapter.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Includes any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals (collectively the
“electronic gaming machines”), to conduct games of chance, including
sweepstakes, and by which cash, merchandise or other items of value are
redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
Any machine that provides access solely to the Internet and does not offer
users opportunity to play a game of chance associated with free game entries
given to patrons when they purchase Internet usage time is not an electronic
gaming machine. ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS may include, but are not limited
to, internet cafés, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming machine/operations,
or cybercafés. ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS do not include the following:
      (1)   Any business that only sells Internet access without an
accompanying free entry into a game of chance; or
      (2)   Any lottery approved by the state or any nonprofit operation that
is otherwise lawful under state law (for example, church or civic fundraisers).
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL. The nature of a business when it is conducted for profit six
months or less out of the year.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. passed 6-22-1993)
§ 111.002 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it should be
construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its terms. In
addition issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse
a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
chapter does not prevent the town from imposing license taxes on additional
businesses, from increasing the amount of any license tax, or from regulating
any business taxed.
(Prior Code, § 16-2) (Ord. passed 6-22-1993)
LEVY
§ 111.015 LEVY.
   An annual privilege license tax is levied on each business conducted within
the town.
(Prior Code, § 16-21)
§ 111.016 APPLICABILITY.
   Each person who conducts a business within this town is subject to this
chapter. A person conducts business when he, she, or they engages in one act of
business taxed under this chapter. He, she, or they conducts the business
within the town if he, she, or they maintains a business location within the
city; or if, either he, she, or they personally or through agents, solicits
business within the city limits or picks up or delivers goods or services
within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 16-22)
§ 111.017 PERIODS OF LICENSE AND DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual licenses. Unless this subchapter provides otherwise, a license
issued in accordance with this chapter is good for the 12-month period
beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The tax is due on July of each year.
However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of a year, the tax for that
year is due before the business is begun.
   (B)   Licenses for periods shorter than one year. If the section of this
chapter levying the privilege license tax applicable to a particular business
so provides. a license may be issued for a period of one day, one week, or some
comparable period of less than a full license year. A person may not continue
such a business beyond the period for which the license is issued.
(Prior Code, § 16-23) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.018 PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after January 31, and before July 1, the amount of
tax due is half the amount otherwise due. If the business is seasonal in nature
and if the amount of tax is not based on gross receipts, the amount of tax due
is half the amount otherwise due.
(Prior Code, § 16-24)
§ 111.019 REFUNDS.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his, her, or their business during
the license year, he, she, or they is not entitled to a refund.
(Prior Code, § 16-25)
§ 111.020 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax
must be paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business
under common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with
and open into each other and are operated as a unit.
   (B)   In addition, a separate privilege license tax must be paid for each
business taxable under this chapter conducted by the taxpayer at any one
location; however, the Tax Collector may issue a single license for all taxable
business conducted at one location by a single taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 16-26) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.021 COMPUTATION OF TAX BASED ON GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter levies a privilege license tax computed on the
basis of gross receipts, “gross receipts” means the amount reported as gross
receipts on a business’ state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year.
   (B)   If a business has not been in operation long enough for the
information required in §
111.020 to be available, the Tax Collector shall estimate gross receipts for
the business on the basis of gross receipts of comparable businesses, or any
other information that the Tax Collector considers useful.
   (C)   On or before the July 31 immediately after the license year, each
licensee who paid the tax for the past license year based on estimated gross
receipts shall submit to the Tax Collector a sworn final report showing the
amount of gross receipts for the license year.
      (1)   If the amount shown is more than estimated gross receipts, the
licensee shall pay the amount of additional tax that would have been due had
the estimate been accurate.
      (2)   If the amount shown is less than estimated gross receipts, the town
shall refund to the licensee the difference between the actual tax paid and the
amount of tax that would have been due had the estimate been accurate.
(Prior Code, § 16-27)
§ 111.022 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally, except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt form the payment of a privilege license tax levied by
this chapter.
   (B)   A person who operates a business for a religious, educational, civic,
patriotic, charitable, or fraternal purpose, when the entire gross income of
the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt from paying any privilege
license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States armed forces
and merchant marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by
this chapter to the extent provided by G.S. §§ 105-41(b) and 105-249.2.
   (D)   A person exempt from paying a privilege license tax levied by this
chapter shall nevertheless obtain a license from the Tax Collector. The license
shall state that the licensee is exempt from paying the privilege license tax.
(Prior Code, § 16-28)
LICENSES
§ 111.035 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Tax Collector for each license required by
this chapter no less than 30 days before the date the tax is due.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax
Collector, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this chapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to state laws, and if so, the serial number of the state license
the applicant currently holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the Tax Collector determines to be necessary
to compute the amount of tax due, pursuant to G.S. Ch. 93B.
(Prior Code, § 16-31)
§ 111.036 REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The Tax Collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his, her, or their qualifications for a license; and/or
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 16-32)
§ 111.037 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS, RIGHT TO CONFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
111.036, the Tax Collector shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall
not issue the license.
      (2)   At the applicant’s request, the Tax Collector shall, in accordance
with §
111.045, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license.
      (3)   The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a conference to discuss the refusal.
      (4)   In the request, the applicant shall specify why the application for
a license should not be refused. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference
within a reasonable time.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant
may reapply for a license any time thereafter.
      (2)   If the reason for which the application was refused no longer
exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a license, the Tax
Collector shall issue the license in compliance with §
111.038.
(Prior Code, § 16-33)
§ 111.038 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE, PREREQUISITE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
111.036, the Tax Collector shall determine the amount of tax due and notify the
applicant of that amount.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall not issue a license until the tax is paid.
(Prior Code, § 16-34)
§ 111.039 AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   (A)   If disputes arise over the amount the Tax Collector determines to be
due, the applicant may either refuse to pay and request a conference with the
Tax Collector to discuss the determination or pay the amount and request a
conference to discuss the right to a refund.
   (B)   If a conference is requested, the Tax Collector shall arrange it
within a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 16-35)
§ 111.040 REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to
revoke if as set forth in §
111.036 Before revoking a license, the Tax Collector shall give the licensee
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
111.046.
      (2)   The licensee may within ten days after the day on which notice is
served request in writing a conference with the Tax Collector.
      (3)   The request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be
revoked.
      (4)   The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   (1)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days
after the day on which notice is served, the Tax Collector shall revoke the
license.
      (2)   If the licensee requests a conference, the Tax Collector may not
revoke the license until after the conference.
   (C)   (1)   If the Tax Collector revokes a license, the former licensee may
apply for a new license at any time thereafter.
      (2)   If the reason for which the license was revoked no longer exists
and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a license, the Tax
Collector shall issue the license in accordance with §
111.038
(Prior Code, § 16-36)
§ 111.041 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where
the business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature
of the business licensed, the period for which the license is issued, and the
amount of tax paid.
   (B)   In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall show the
serial number of the machine. The Tax Collector shall keep a copy of each
license issued.
(Prior Code, § 16-37)
§ 111.042 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if a business licensed under this chapter
and carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person, and the
purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the Tax Collector in accordance
with this subchapter. Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a
personal privilege and is not assignable.
(Prior Code, § 16-38)
§ 111.043 CHANGES IN BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING TAX YEAR.
   (A)   (1)   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the
information contained in the license application to the Tax Collector within
ten days after the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the license is affected, the licensee or
assignee shall surrender the license to the Tax Collector when reporting the
change.
   (B)   If there are no reasons for revoking the licenses under §
111.036 above and the change results in the imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
upon payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (C)   If there are no reasons for revoking the license under §
111.036 above and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the Tax Collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
for a fee of 25% of the cost of the original license.
   (D)   If there is reason for revoking the license under §
111.036 above, the Tax Collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall
instead begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with §
111.018 above.
(Prior Code, § 16-39) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.044 TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Tax
Collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of 25% of the cost of the
original license.
(Prior Code, § 16-40)
§ 111.045 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall maintain for three years a record of each
conference held in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The record shall contain the applicant’s or licensee’s name, the date
of the conference, and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the result
reached.
   (C)   After three years, the Tax Collector shall dispose of the record in
accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Prior Code, § 16-41)
§ 111.046 PROVIDING NOTICE TO APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Tax Collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the Tax Collector may do so in one of
three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4
of the state’s Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Prior Code, § 16-42)
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
§ 111.060 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX IS DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he, she, or they
conducts is taxed under this chapter and if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current tax year.
(Prior Code, § 16-51)
§ 111.061 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the city in violation of this chapter, the Tax Collector shall
conduct an investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(Prior Code, § 16-52)
§ 111.062 DUTY TO KEEP BOOKS.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this chapter shall
keep all records and books necessary to compute the tax liability.
   (B)   If a person fails to keep books and records as required, the Tax
Collector shall make a determination of that person’s tax liability from the
information available.
(Prior Code, § 16-53) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.063 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the city shall permit the Tax Collector
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there and to examine the books and records to
determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(Prior Code, § 16-54)
§ 111.064 DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the
place of business licensed.
   (B)   If the licensee has no regular place of business, the license must be
kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper city officials.
   (C)   If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine.
(Prior Code, § 16-55) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.065 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If the Tax Collector determines that a person has not paid the full
amount of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or
for a prior license year, the Tax Collector shall give the person written
notice of the deficiency, in accordance with §
111.046.
   (B)   The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due,
the section of this chapter upon which the tax is based, any interest due, the
balance owed, the manner and time period in which the person may respond to the
notice of the deficiency, and the consequences of failing to respond as
specified.
(Prior Code, § 16-56)
§ 111.066 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request in writing a conference. The request shall specify the person’s
objections to the notice of the deficiency.
   (B)   By way of illustration but not limitations, a person who receives
notice of a deficiency may object on the following grounds:
      (1)   The tax has already been paid;
      (2)   The Tax Collector miscalculated the amount of tax due;
      (3)   The Tax Collector based his, her, or their calculation on incorrect
or insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of
business conducted; or
      (4)   The Tax Collector based the determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this chapter that establishes a category of
business subject to a particular tax.
(Prior Code, § 16-57)
§ 111.067 DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
111.066, the deficiency becomes final and the Tax Collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(Prior Code, § 16-58)
§ 111.068 CONFERENCE HELD.
   (A)   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the Tax Collector shall not
proceed to collect the deficiency until hearing the taxpayer’s objections and
determining that the deficiency should become final.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall maintain for three years a record of each
conference held in accordance with §
111.066. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference, a brief statement of the issues discussed, and the results of the
discussion.
   (C)   After three years, the Tax Collector shall dispose of the record in
compliance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Prior Code, § 16-59)
§ 111.069 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The Tax Collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
111.070(A);
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
111.070(B);
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment, and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; and/or
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the city in accordance with G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for additional tax of
5% every 30 days as imposed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 16-60)
§ 111.070 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Conducting business within this city without having paid the
privilege license tax imposed by this chapter, or without a valid license
issued in accordance with this chapter, or without posting a license in
compliance with §
111.064 is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided by state law.
      (2)   Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this
chapter is a separate offense.
      (3)   Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings in accordance
with this section does not relieve a person of the liability for taxes imposed
under this chapter and G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in division (A) above
and in compliance with state law, the city may seek an injunction against any
person who conducts a business in violation of this chapter and G.S. § 160A-175
(d).
(Prior Code, § 16-61)
PRIVILEGE LICENSE
§ 111.085 PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES.
   The list of privilege license taxes is maintained on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 16-71)
§ 111.086 ELECTRONIC GAMING SALES.
   In addition to those businesses listed in the current privilege license tax
list on file in the office of the Town Clerk, each person and entity engaged in
the business of an electronic gaming operation within the town shall pay an
annual privilege license tax in the amount of $2,000 plus $1,000 per electronic
gaming machine used or stored as part of the electronic gaming operation. For
example, an electronic gaming operation having one machine shall pay an annual
privilege license tax of $3,000, an operation having two machines shall pay an
annual privilege license tax of $4,000, and so forth.
(Prior Code, § 16-72) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by fine not exceeding $50 or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, as provided by law.
   (B)   Each day a sale is conducted in violation of this chapter shall
constitute a separate distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 16-85)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions and classifications of sexually-oriented businesses
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Issuance of license
   
112.05   Fees
   
112.06   Expiration of license
   
112.07   Suspension
   
112.08   Revocation
   
112.09   Appeal
   
112.10   Transfer of license
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
152.535 through
152.549
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare
to the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location, concentration and operation of
sexually-oriented businesses within the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually-oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Prior Code, § 17-3)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND CLASSIFICATIONS OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   A comprehensive list of definitions concerning sexually-oriented businesses
and list of classifications of sexually-oriented businesses are found in §§
152.536 and
152.537 which are incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually-oriented business without a
valid sexually-oriented business license issued by the town pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually-oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually-oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually-oriented business employee by the Town pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually-oriented
business without having secured a sexually-oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
town.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provision of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the town to determine whether
the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under division (E) below and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually-oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his, her, or their
legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he, she, or they is 18 years
of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors and principal stockholders, and the name of the
registered corporate agent and the address of the registered office for service
of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually-oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he, she, or they must:
         (a)   State the sexually-oriented business’ fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal activity
involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, has had a previous license under this
chapter or other similar sexually-oriented business ordinances from another
city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of
the sexually-oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended or
revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and
whether the applicant or a person residing with applicant has been a partner in
a partnership or an officer, director or principal stockholder of a corporation
that is licensed under this chapter whose license has previously been denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually-oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the
date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with applicant holds any
other licenses under this chapter or other similar sexually-oriented business
ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and locations of
such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s) if
any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and/or his, her, or their state or federally issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or recreation
area within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of
any established residence within 2,000 feet of the property to be certified.
For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established
if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (13)   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video cassettes,
other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict specified sexual
activities or specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, than
the applicant shall comply with the application requirements set forth above.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually-oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
town the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including “state” names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually-oriented business
employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   (a)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant
for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the
application, including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking
to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has ever had a
license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended,
or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or
suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state
the name, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full
the reason for denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
(Prior Code, § 17-5)
§ 112.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The application shall then be referred to the appropriate town
departments for an investigation to be made on such information as is contained
on the application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
town shall issue a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence that one or more of the following findings is true.
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information of the application forms.
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter.
      (4)   The sexually-oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statue, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter.
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented business employee license
revoked by the town within two years of the date of the current application.
Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division
(A) shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
112.09.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the town
that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal activity as
defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence of the
previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
112.05.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed sexually-oriented business
application, the town shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The town shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant
unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of
the following findings is true.
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment of the town of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or
imposed upon him, her, or them in relation to any business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant has been denied a license by the town to operated a
sexually-oriented business within the preceding 12 months or whose license to
operate a sexually-oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months.
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter.
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and chapters.
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted shall state on its face the name of the
personal or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually-oriented business and the classification for which the license is
issued, according to §
152.537. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building Official
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the town.
   (F)   A sexually-oriented business license shall be issued for only one
sexually-oriented business classification.
(Prior Code, § 17-6)
§ 112.05 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $250 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually-oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the town an annual non-refundable license fee of $100 within 30
days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually-oriented business employee license
(whether for new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $25 non-refundable application, investigation, and
license fee.
   (D)   All license applications and fee shall be submitted to the town’s Tax
Collector’s office.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
§ 112.06 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.03. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be effected.
   (B)   When the town denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the town finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Prior Code, § 17-8)
§ 112.07 SUSPENSION.
   The town shall suspend a license for a period not exceed 30 days if it
determines that a license or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
and/or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-9)
§ 112.08 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The town shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
112.07 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The town shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the town, county, or state
for any taxes or fees past due.
   (C)   When the town revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year, and the licensee shall be issued a sexually-oriented business license for
one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the town finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
§ 112.09 APPEAL.
   (A)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant of
licensee may seek prompt judicial review in the nature of a mandamus action of
such administrative action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The town shall answer a compliant within 15 days of service (as
opposed to the typical 30-day answer period) and will not seek more than a five
day extension of time to answer, if any.
   (C)   The town will consent to and join in a request by the applicant for an
expedited hearing, trial, or other processing.
(Prior Code, § 17-11)
§ 112.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his, her, or their license to another, nor
shall a licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 17-12)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Consumption and possession of open containers of alcohol on public
property
   
130.02   Smoking in municipal buildings and vehicles
Firearms
   
130.15   Unauthorized discharge
   
130.16   Limited authorization for discharge of firearms
   
130.17   Concealed handguns permitted
   
130.18   Prohibition of openly-carried firearms
   
130.19   Posting and location of signs
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol sales on Sunday, see §
110.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person may consume alcoholic beverages, malt beverages, or
unfortified wines on any property owned or occupied by the town.
   (B)   No person may possess open containers of alcoholic beverages, malt
beverages, or unfortified wines on any property owned or occupied by the town.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Beverage made by distillation rather than by
fermentation such as spirits or liquor.
      MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, or any other brewed
or fermented beverage containing at least 0.5% and not more than 6% alcohol by
volume.
      OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken or a container
other than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
      PROPERTY OWNED OR OCCUPIED BY THE TOWN. This includes all public streets,
sidewalks, parkways, bikeways, and other public rights-of-way, as well as the
Town Hall property, public works facility, all town parks, and all other
properties owned or occupied by the town.
      UNFORTIFIED WINE. Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation or by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar,
and that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
(Prior Code, § 17-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. In this section, the word SMOKING shall mean the use or
possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar, lighted pipe, or any other
lighted tobacco product.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings. It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in any building or facility or portion of a building or
facility now hereafter owned, leased, operated, occupied, managed or controlled
by the town.
   (C)   Smoking prohibited in municipal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any
person to smoke in any vehicle now or hereafter owned or leased by the town.
(Prior Code, § 17-2) (Ord. passed 10-1-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREARMS
§ 130.15 UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGE.
   The unauthorized discharge of any firearm, pellet gun, BB gun, or other
weapon of destruction anywhere within the town limits is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-1) (Ord. passed 1-7-1971; Ord. passed 2-4-1971) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.16 LIMITED AUTHORIZATION FOR DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   Except as otherwise granted by §
130.21, authorization of the discharge of firearms within the town limits is
granted in the sole discretion of the Board of Commissioners for the town, upon
majority vote in regular session of such Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-2) (Ord. passed 1-7-1971; Ord. passed 2-4-1971) Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.17 CONCEALED HANDGUNS PERMITTED.
   A person who has been issued a valid state concealed handgun permit may
carry a concealed handgun into all town buildings and all other town facilities
and property, including but not limited to town parks, greenways, and other
recreational areas and open space.
(Prior Code, § 11-21) (Ord. passed 11-16-1995)
§ 130.18 PROHIBITION OF OPENLY-CARRIED FIREARMS.
   As authorized by G.S. § 14-415.23, all firearms are prohibited in all town
buildings and on all other town property and facilities, including but not
limited to town parks, greenways, and other recreational areas and open space.
This prohibition does not apply to concealed handguns carried by persons in
possession of a valid state concealed handgun permit.
(Prior Code, § 11-22) (Ord. passed 11-16-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 POSTING AND LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   In accordance with this subchapter, the town staff shall post
conspicuous signs at all town buildings and recreational facilities notifying
the public that firearms, except for lawfully carried concealed handguns, are
prohibited therein.
   (B)   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building or other town facility
(Prior Code, § 11-23) (Ord. passed 11-16-1995)
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. A handgun, shotgun, or rifle which expels a projectile by action or
an explosion.
   HANDGUN. A pistol, revolver, or other gun that has a short stock and is
designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand.
(Prior Code, § 11-30)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-409.39
§ 130.21 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The restrictions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A sworn law enforcement officer while on the job and acting within
the scope of his, her, or their duties;
      (2)   A person acting pursuant to the lawful directions of the sworn law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   When a firearm is used in defense of person or property;
      (4)   As part of any use allowed by and permitted under
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances;
      (5)   The discharge of blank cartridges in musical and theatrical
performances, parades, sporting events; and
      (6)   Salutes by firing squads at military funerals.
   (B)   A firearm may be secured in a locked vehicle within the trunk, glove
box, or other enclosed compartment or area within or on the motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 11-31)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
130.15 through
130.21 shall be liable to the town for the penalty of $50, and failure to pay
such penalty within ten days shall, in addition to the penalty stated above,
constitute a misdemeanor subjecting such person to fine or imprisonment as
provided in state laws.
(Prior Code, § 11-32)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   HOUSING CODE
      
152.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Inspections
   
150.03   Removal or repair of unsafe building
   
150.04   Swimming pool defined
   
150.05   Disposal of waste during and after construction
Technical Codes
   
150.20   Building Code adopted
   
150.21   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.22   Heating Code adopted
   
150.23   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.24   Residential Building Code adopted
   
150.25   Compliance with codes
   
150.26   Copies of codes filed
   
150.27   Swimming pool construction requirements
   
150.28   Satellite earth stations, roof or tower-mounted radio and conventional
television antennas
Permits
   
150.40   Required
   
150.41   Swimming pool permit requirements
   
150.42   Satellite earth stations, and roof or tower-mounted radio and
conventional television antennas; permit requirements
Abandoned Structures
   
150.55   Finding, intent
   
150.56   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
150.57   Powers of Zoning Administrator
   
150.58   Standards for enforcement
   
150.59   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.60   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.61   In rem action by the Zoning Administrator, placarding
   
150.62   Costs, a lien on premises
   
150.63   Alternative remedies
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   No building or structure in the town shall be constructed, altered,
repaired, or removed, nor shall the equipment of the building, structure, or
premises be constructed, installed, altered, repaired, or removed, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The scope of this chapter extends to swimming pools, as defined in §
150.04.
(Prior Code, § 4-1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall inspect all buildings or structures
during construction, to see that the provisions of the town’s zoning code are
complied with, and that construction is prosecuted safely.
   (B)   Whenever, in his, her, or their opinion, by reason of defective or
illegal work in violation of a provision of this chapter, the continuance of a
building operation is contrary to public welfare, he, she, or they may order
all further work to be stopped, and may require suspension of work until the
condition in violation has been remedied.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
§ 150.03 REMOVAL OR REPAIR OF UNSAFE BUILDING.
   In accordance with §§
150.55 through
150.63, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to require that a
building or structure that may be or become dangerous or unsafe, and shall,
unless said building is made safe within a reasonable time, after notice has
been given to the owner in writing of its unsafe condition, be authorized to
take down and remove said building.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
Cross-reference:
   Maintenance of premises and vacant lots, see §
91.30
§ 150.04 SWIMMING POOL DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term SWIMMING POOL shall mean any
structure, basin, chamber or tank containing an artificial body of water for
swimming, diving, or recreational bathing.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
§ 150.05 DISPOSAL OF WASTE DURING AND AFTER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Waste material and rubbish shall not be stored nor allowed to
accumulate within the building or within the immediate vicinity, but shall be
removed from the premises as rapidly as practicable. Combustible waste and
rubbish shall be removed at least daily.
   (B)   No material shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the
immediate vicinity, without first getting permission from the Building
Inspector or the Fire Chief, or some responsible designated person in the town.
   (C)   All excess building material must be removed from the premises before
an occupancy permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Litter and dumping, see §§
91.15 through
91.19
TECHNICAL CODES
§ 150.20 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Building Code (Volume I, General Construction), as adopted by the
state’s Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
as full as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-20)
Statutory reference:
   For State Building Code, see G.S. § 143-138
§ 150.21 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The state’s Plumbing Code (State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing), as
adopted by the state’s Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as full as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-21)
§ 150.22 HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The state’s Heating Code (State Building Code, Volume III, Heating), as
adopted by the state’s Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as full as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-22)
§ 150.23 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The state’s Electrical Code (State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), as
adopted by the state’s Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as full as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-23)
§ 150.24 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The state’s Uniform Residential Building Code (State Building Code, Volume
I-B, Residential), as adopted by the state’s Building Code Council, and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as full as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-24)
§ 150.25 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   (1)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and other
provisions of either the State Building Code, General Construction, Volume I or
the State Building Code, Volume I-B, Residential, whichever is applicable, or
of both if both are applicable.
      (2)   Additionally, any residential structure erected in the town must be
so constructed that groundwater drains away from the structure.
      (3)   All residential structures must have a back slope and a drainage
plan for the building site.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the state’s
Plumbing Code (State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used, and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other
provisions of the state’s Heating Code (State Building Code, Volume III,
Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the state’s
Electrical Code (State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
   (E)   Any violation of State Building Codes will be investigated and
enforced by officials from the county.
(Prior Code, § 4-25) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 COPIES OF CODES FILED.
   (A)   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official
copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk or Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Those copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 4-26)
§ 150.27 SWIMMING POOL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a fence, which shall be at
least four feet in height and which shall be of a type not readily climbed by
children.
   (B)   The gates shall be of a self-closing and latching type with the latch
on the inside of the gate, not readily available for children to open;
provided, that if the entire premises of the residence is enclosed, this
provision may be waived by the Zoning Administrator upon inspection and
approval of the residence enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 4-27) (Ord. passed 12-18-1986) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Filling and draining swimming pools, see §
50.06
   Swimming pool construction, use, and inspections, see §
91.60
   Swimming pool permit requirements, see §
150.41
§ 150.28 SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS, ROOF OR TOWER-MOUNTED RADIO AND CONVENTIONAL
TELEVISION ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Permitted. Permitted devices include:
      (1)   Radio and conventional television antennas mounted on the roof of a
building or on a separate tower structure;
      (2)   Satellite earth station antenna structures mounted on the ground
for reception of satellite-transmitted television programming; and
      (3)   Thirty-six inch satellite earth station antenna structures mounted
on the ground or 18-inch satellite earth station antenna structures mounted on
the roof or the exterior walls of a structure.
   (B)   Prohibited. Prohibited devices include:
      (1)   Any tower-mounted antenna or ground-mounted satellite earth station
antenna structure in a front yard or elsewhere than as specified herein; or
      (2)   A satellite earth station antenna mounted on a roof of a main or
accessory building or on a tower, except as permitted in division (A)(3) above.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Except as permitted in division (A)(3)
above:
      (1)   All antenna structures shall be at a minimum distance of 40 feet
from any roadway, or at a greater distance so as not to be in a front yard; and
      (2)   Their minimum setback from a side or any of the rear lot lines
shall be eight feet.
   (D)   Height and size of structures. Except as permitted in division (A)(3)
above:
      (1)   Roof of tower-mounted radio and conventional television antenna
shall not exceed a height of 50 feet above the ground;
      (2)   Satellite earth station antennas shall not exceed 11 feet in
diameter and the final structure shall not exceed a total height of 15 feet
above the ground; and
      (3)   Should the town grant a franchise which provides for the
construction of a master television receiver station to supply programming via
cable connections to individual customers, a satellite earth station antenna of
larger diameter and greater total height and a tower-mounted conventional
television antenna of greater height than the above limits shall be permitted
if required for proper operation of the system.
   (E)   Location of antennas. Antennas should be located as follows:
      (1)   Tower-mounted antennas may be located in either a side yard or a
rear yard; and
      (2)   Satellite earth station antenna structures shall be located only in
a rear yard, subject to the required setbacks. However, if it can be
demonstrated clearly that no suitable look angle can be found in the rear yard
because of physical obstructions even following the trimming or cutting of
trees on the owner’s property, but that a suitable location does exist in the
side yard with the required setback, then a side yard location may be permitted
subject to the provisions of §
150.42(B).
   (F)   Number of structures. Except as permitted in division (A)(3) above:
      (1)   There shall not be more than one tower-mounted antenna and/or
satellite earth station antenna structures located on a single residential lot
or other property belonging to a single owner; and
      (2)   In districts which contain multiple occupancy buildings, there
shall not be more than one tower-mounted antenna and/or satellite earth station
antenna structure for each principal building.
   (G)   Screening and color of satellite earth station antennas. The following
provisions apply to the screening and color of satellite earth station
antennas:
      (1)   Satellite earth station antenna structures shall be screened to the
height of the structure by fencing, landscaping, and/or vegetation which is
dense enough to restrict it from view by neighbors and/or the general public
while allowing the necessary clear view of the satellites by the receiving face
of the antenna. Any vegetation must be expected to reach the necessary height
in two years, and any that dies must be replaced; and
      (2)   Any fencing and any portion of the antenna, if exposed to view,
shall be painted a color compatible with the background surrounding the
structure.
(Prior Code, § 4-28) (Ord. passed 8-20-1987) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERMITS
§ 150.40 REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be built, enlarged, altered, or moved
without first obtaining a zoning permit from the Zoning Administrator and
subsequent building permits from appropriate county agencies. Either the Zoning
Administrator or the county may require a plan of the proposed work drawn by a
reputable architect or reputable company engaged in the business of issuing
such plans, together with a statement of the materials and the type of
materials, whether new or used, and the like, to be used.
   (B)   Before said building may be occupied or the additions or improvements
or alterations may be used, an occupancy permit must be secured from the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 4-31) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 SWIMMING POOL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit shall be applied for and issued by the Zoning Administrator
before construction shall begin on any swimming pool. The application for the
permit shall be accompanied by a complete and detailed set of plans and
specifications of the swimming pool.
   (B)   Before any permit shall be issued, such plans and specifications shall
be approved by the Building Inspector and the county’s Health Department, and
before any swimming pool shall be used, a final inspection and approval shall
be required from both the Building Inspector and the county’s Health
Department.
(Prior Code, § 4-32) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Filling and draining swimming pools, see §
50.06
   Swimming pool construction requirements, see §
150.27
   Swimming pool construction, use, and inspections, see §
91.60
§ 150.42 SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS, AND ROOF OR TOWER-MOUNTED RADIO AND
CONVENTIONAL TELEVISION ANTENNAS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as permitted in §
150.28(A)(3), a permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior to
the erection of any antenna tower or satellite earth station antenna structure,
according to state law. The application and a fee for the permit shall include
a site plan showing the existing structures and the proposed location of the
antenna structure as recommended by a licensed satellite television dealer.
Information shall also be included as to how the structure is to be screened
and the color to be used as outlined in §
150.28(G), if applicable.
   (B)   If the site plan proposes a side yard location as provided for in §
150.28(E)(2), such site plan shall be submitted for approval by the Planning
Board, in accordance with provisions outlined in the zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 4-33) Penalty, see §
150.99
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.55 FINDING, INTENT.
   (A)   It is hereby found that there may exist within the town abandoned
structures which the Board finds to be hazardous to the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities.
   (B)   Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-1129 and
1130, it is the intent of the governing body that this subchapter provide for
the repair, closing, or demolition of any such abandoned structures in
accordance with the same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for
the repair, closing or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Prior Code, § 4-41)
§ 150.56 DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the officer to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Take such action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to
provide to the repair, closing, or demolition of the structures;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned
to such officer.
(Prior Code, § 4-42)
§ 150.57 POWERS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, including the
following powers in addition to others herein granted to:
   (A)   Investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   Enter upon premises for the purposes of making inspections;
   (C)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   Designate such other officers, agents, and employees of the town as
he, she, or they deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-43)
§ 150.58 STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; and/or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Zoning Administrator may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings, or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the state’s Electrical Code,
or the Fire Prevention Code, which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish, or combustible material which
constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the Building Code which might result in danger to
children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and/or
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
(Prior Code, § 4-44) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.59 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Zoning Administrator by at
least five residents of the town charging that any structure exists in
violation of this subchapter or whenever it appears to the Zoning
Administrator, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation thereof,
the Zoning Administrator shall, if such preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for those charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the structure a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Zoning Administrator
at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the
serving of the complaint.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to the structure.
      (3)   Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall state
in writing any determination whether the structure violates this subchapter.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the dwelling is in
violation, the Zoning Administrator shall state in writing his, her, or their
findings of fact to support the determination, and shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
either repair, alter, and improve the structure or else remove or demolish the
same within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Zoning Administrator within the time specified
therein, the Zoning Administrator may submit to the Town Board at its next
regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
Superior Court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Zoning Administrator, as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1201(a).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Zoning Administrator within the time specified therein, if
injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (C)(1) above, the Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Town Board
an ordinance ordering the Zoning Administrator to cause the structure to be
removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the Zoning
Administrator, and pending the removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling
as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(4).
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Zoning Administrator shall have the right, within 30 days after
issuance of the order to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Zoning Administrator pending a final disposition of the cause,
as provided by G.S. § 160D-1208(d).
(Prior Code, § 4-45) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.60 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of those persons are unknown the same cannot be ascertained by the
Zoning Administrator in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Zoning
Administrator shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the
complaint or order upon that person may be made by publication in the manner
prescribed by G.S. § 160D-1206(b).
   (B)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 4-46)
§ 150.61 IN REM ACTION BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, PLACARDING.
   (A)   (1)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order
of the Zoning Administrator issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
and upon adoption by the Town Board of an ordinance authorizing and directing
such owner to do so, as provided by §
150.59(C) and G.S. § 160A-443(5), the Zoning Administrator shall proceed to
cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance
of the Town Board and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the
structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the structure.
      (2)   Use or occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160D- 1203(4).
(Prior Code, § 4-47) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.62 COSTS, A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(7), the amount of the cost of any
removal or demolition caused to be made or done by the Zoning Administrator
pursuant to this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which
the cost was incurred.
   (B)   The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Art. 10, Ch. 160A.
(Prior Code, § 4-48)
§ 150.63 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein
shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided
herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 4-49)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who shall violate a provision of this chapter or fail to
comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect,
construct, alter, or repair, or has erected, constructed, altered or repaired a
building or structure, in violation of a detailed statement or plan submitted
and approved thereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $10, nor more
than $50, or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or by both fine and
imprisonment within the discretion of the courts.
   (B)   The owner of a building, structure, or premises, where anything in
violation of this chapter shall be placed or shall exist, and an architect,
builder, contractor, agent, person, or corporation employed in connection
therewith, and who may have assisted in the commission of such a violation,
shall each be guilty of a separate offense, and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined as therein provided.
   (C)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed, shall not preclude
the Town Attorney from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, or to
prevent an illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about any premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Finding, intent
   
151.02   Compliance required
   
151.03   Structure and materials
Conditions and Standards
   
151.15   Access
   
151.16   Space and security
   
151.17   Electrical system
   
151.18   Heating system
   
151.19   Ventilation and illumination
   
151.20   Sanitary facilities
   
151.21   Rodent control, screening
   
151.22   Infestation and extermination
   
151.23   Noxious growth prohibited
   
151.24   Rubbish storage and disposal
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.35   Zoning Administrator duties
   
151.36   Inspection duty of owners and occupants
   
151.37   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.38   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.39   In rem action by Zoning Administrator, placarding
   
151.40   Costs, a lien on premises
   
151.41   Civil action authorized for enforcement
   
151.42   Alternative remedies
   
151.43   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDING, INTENT.
   (A)    Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-1129 and 1130, it is hereby found that there
may exist within the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light, and sanitary facilities, and other
conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety, and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of the town as authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-1201 et seq., it is the intent of
this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1201.
(Prior Code, § 13-1)
§ 151.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation shall
comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and
all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 STRUCTURE AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Ceilings, walls, and floors shall not have any serious defects such as
severe bulging or leaning, large holes, loose surface materials, severe
buckling, or noticeable movement under walking stress, missing parts, or other
serious damage.
   (B)   The roof structure shall be firm and the roof shall be weather-tight.
The exterior wall structure and exterior wall surface shall not have any
serious defects such as serious leaning, buckling, sagging, cracks or holes,
loose siding, or other serious damage.
   (C)   The condition and equipment of interior and exterior stairways, halls,
porches, walkways, and the like, shall be such as not to present a danger of
tripping or falling.
(Prior Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
151.99
CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 151.15 ACCESS.
   (A)   The dwelling unit shall be useable and capable of being maintained
without unauthorized use of other private properties.
   (B)   The building shall provide an alternate means of egress in case of
fire (such as fire stairs or egress through windows).
(Prior Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 SPACE AND SECURITY.
   (A)   A living room, kitchen area, and bathroom shall be present and shall
contain at least one sleeping or living/sleeping room of appropriate size for
each two persons.
   (B)   Exterior doors and windows accessible from outside the dwelling shall
be lockable.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 ELECTRICAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor or wall-type
electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as determined by the
county’s Building Code.
   (C)   There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet room, laundry
room, and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric
light fixture.
   (D)   In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any
habitable room, then each such habitable room shall contain at least three
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 13-6) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 HEATING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Safe heating facilities which are in proper operating condition and
can provide adequate heat to each room in the dwelling unit appropriate for the
climate to ensure a healthy living environment shall be provided.
   (B)   (1)   Unvented room heaters which burn gas, oil, or kerosene are
unacceptable.
      (2)   Unvented gas log fireplaces which meets the appropriate standards
for such units are acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 13-7) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 VENTILATION AND ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Living and sleeping rooms shall include at least one window.
   (B)   Air circulation shall be adequate throughout the unit.
   (C)   Bathroom areas shall have at least one openable window or other
adequate exhaust ventilation.
(Prior Code, § 13-8) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   There shall be a flush toilet in a separate private room, a fixed basin with
hot and cold running water and a shower or tub with hot and cold running water
that will drain into an approved public or private system, and all maintained
in proper operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 13-8) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 RODENT CONTROL, SCREENING.
   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for ventilation,
and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry for rodents,
shall be supplied with screens installed or such other approved device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
(Prior Code, § 13-9) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.22 INFESTATION AND EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his, her, or their dwelling unit is the only one
infested.
   (B)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rodent-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 13-10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.23 NOXIOUS GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be kept free of
noxious growth.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, NOXIOUS GROWTH means any growth of
weeds, grasses, or other plants or bushes that become or threaten to become a
fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin or
otherwise pose a danger to the public health or safety.
   (C)   Uncontrolled plant growth (i.e., plants not intentionally planted in a
garden, shrub bed, flower bed, or similar area) that is at least 12 inches tall
and remains so for a period of 21 days shall also constitute noxious growth.
(Prior Code, § 13-10.1) Penalty, see §
151.99
Cross-reference:
   Specifications for weeds, grass, and the like, see §
91.31
§ 151.24 RUBBISH STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   (1)   Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall have approved
containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town ordinances and
policies, and the owner, operator, or agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for placing rubbish containers at the curb
in accordance with town ordinances and policies.
      (2)   The owner, operator, or agent in control of each dwelling shall be
responsible for securing such approved containers.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or agent in control of each dwelling shall be
responsible for placing yard waste at the curb for pick up in accordance with
town ordinances and policies.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no owner or occupant
may cause, suffer, or permit wastes, including rubbish and garbage, or scrap
materials, to accumulate on the premises such that said wastes become or
threaten to become a fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes,
other vermin, or otherwise pose a danger to the public health or safety.
      (2)   This division (B) shall include yards and exterior property areas,
provided that occupants shall be liable under this section only for those parts
of the premises under their control.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (B), WASTE shall mean useless,
unwanted, or discarded materials and products, resulting from domestic,
industrial, commercial, or community activities.
   (C)   (1)   Yard waste may be allowed to accumulate or remain in yards and
exterior property areas for uses such as landscaping and composting, provided
that these materials do not become or threaten to become a fire hazard or a
harboring place for rats, mice, snakes, or other vermin, or otherwise pose a
danger to the public health and safety.
      (2)   This provision does not authorize the commercial storage of
landscaping materials on a residential property. Commercial storage is
permitted only in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 152.
      (3)   For the purposes of the this division (C), YARD WASTE shall mean
organic materials commonly consisting of leaves, pine straw, wheat straw, grass
clippings, hedge clippings, dirt, rocks, yard and garden waste, branches, logs,
twigs, and all vegetable matter resulting from landscaping or land clearing
activities (i.e., stumps, trees, and the like).
(Prior Code, § 13-11) Penalty, see §
151.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the officer to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to:
      (1)   Investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings and dwelling
units;
      (2)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   Keep an accurate record of the results of inspection made under
this chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned
to such officer.
(Prior Code, § 13-12)
§ 151.36 INSPECTION DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Zoning Administrator is
hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Zoning Administrator free
access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, and its premises at
all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection, examination, and
survey.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator must have reasonable cause to expect that the
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit is in violation of the provisions of
this chapter before requesting access for the purpose of inspection.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his, her, or their agent or employee, access to any part of such
dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-13) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.37 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Zoning Administrator by a
public authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, he, she, or they shall, if his, her, or their preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit, a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Town Board not less than ten days nor more than three days
after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony
at the time and place fixed in the complaint.
      (3)   Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do
so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being
heard.
      (4)   The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall
not be controlling in hearings before the Town Board.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Zoning Administrator shall state
in writing his, her, or their determination whether such dwelling or dwelling
unit is unfit for human habitation, and if so, whether it is deteriorated or
dilapidated.
      (2)   (a)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the dwelling or
dwelling unit is deteriorated, he, she, or they shall state in writing his,
her, or their findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall
issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and
requiring the owner to repair, alter, and improve such dwelling or dwelling
unit to comply with minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter
within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days.
         (b)   Such order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close such dwelling or dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations, and
improvements have been made.
      (3)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the dwelling is
dilapidated, he, she, or they shall state in writing his, her, or their
findings of fact to support such determination, and shall issue and cause to be
served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
either repair, alter, and improve such dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with
minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter, or else vacate and
remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90
days.
      (4)   (a)   For the purposes of this chapter, a deteriorated dwelling
unit shall be considered to be unfit for human habitation if the cost of
repairing, altering or improving the unit is 50% or less than the value of the
dwelling unit in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   A dilapidated dwelling unit shall be considered to be unfit for
human habitation if the cost of repairing, altering, or improving the unit is
more than 50% the value of the dwelling unit in the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order. If any person to whom an order has been
issued under this chapter shall fail to comply with such order, either of the
following remedies may be pursued.
      (1)   If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or dwelling unit shall
fail to comply with an order of the Zoning Administrator to repair, alter, or
improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of a
dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Zoning
Administrator to vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the
time specified therein, the Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Mayor and
Town Board at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney
to petition the Superior Court for an order directing such owner to comply with
the order of the Zoning Administrator, as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1201(a).
      (2)   After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling or dwelling
unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the Zoning
Administrator within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not
been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) above, the
Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Mayor and Town Board an ordinance
ordering the Zoning Administrator to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be
repaired, altered, improved, or vacated and closed and removed or demolished,
as provided in the original order of the Zoning Administrator, and pending such
removal or demolition, to placard such dwelling as provided in §
151.39 and G.S. § 160D- 1203(4).
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Zoning Administrator or a decision rendered by the Town Board
shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Zoning Administrator pending a final disposition of the cause,
as provided by G.S. § 160-1208(d).
(Prior Code, § 13-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.38 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to
this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or
certified mail.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners of the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Zoning Administrator in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, and the Zoning Administrator makes an affidavit to
that effect, then the serving of a complaint or order upon the unknown owners
or other persons maybe made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of §
151.37.
   (C)   When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby
affected.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
§ 151.39 IN REM ACTION BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Zoning Administrator issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and upon adoption by the Mayor and Town Board of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him, her, or them to do so, as provided by §
151.37(C) and G.S. § 160D-1203(4), the Zoning Administrator shall proceed to
cause such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to
comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to
be vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance
of the Mayor and Town Board, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance
of such dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the following words: “This
building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building
for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so
posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the county’s office of deeds,
and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as
provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(4).
(Prior Code, § 13-16) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.40 COSTS, A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(7), the amount of the cost of
any repairs, alterations, or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal
or demolition, caused to be made or done by the Zoning Administrator pursuant
to §
151.39 shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred.
      (2)   Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced
and the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.10.
   (B)   (1)   If the real property upon which the cost was incurred is located
within the corporate limits of the town, then the amount of the cost is also a
lien on any other real property of the owner located within the town limits or
within one mile thereof except for the owner’s primary residence.
      (2)   This additional lien is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
§ 151.41 CIVIL ACTION AUTHORIZED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Zoning Administrator may file a civil action in the name of the town to
remove such occupant.
   (B)   The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any person occupying such dwelling.
   (C)   The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing the Zoning
Administrator or Town Attorney produces a certified copy of an ordinance
adopted by the Town Board pursuant to §
151.37 authorizing the Zoning Administrator or Town Attorney to proceed to
vacate the occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgement ordering
that the premises be vacated and that all persons be removed.
   (D)   The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated shall be enforced
in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. §
42-30.
   (E)   An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of such judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227.
   (F)   An action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the
owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to
this section unless such occupant was served with notice at least 30 days
before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding that the Board has
ordered the Zoning Administrator or Town Attorney to proceed to exercise his,
her, or their duties under this chapter to vacate and close or remove and
demolish the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 13-18) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and the
enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of
any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any dwelling or
dwelling unit to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the
same, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same or the premises
thereof, upon order of the Zoning Administrator duly made and served as herein
provided, within the time specified in such order, and each day that any such
failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.37, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration, or improvement, or its vacation and
closing, and each day that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 13-19) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 13-20)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or
dwelling unit to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the
same, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the
Zoning Administrator duly made and served as herein provided, within the time
specified in such order, and each day that any such failure, neglect, or
refusal to comply with such order continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.37, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration, or improvement or its vacation and
closing, and each day that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 13-21)
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall also subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $100. If the offender fails to pay this penalty
within ten days after being cited for a violation, then the penalty may be
recovered by the town in civil action in the nature of debt.
(Prior Code, § 13-19)
CHAPTER 152: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title and effective date
   
152.002   Authority
   
152.003   Jurisdiction
   
152.004   Relationship to existing ordinances and land development plan
   
152.005   Conformity required
   
152.006   Fees
   
152.007   Rules of construction
   
152.008   Definitions
   
152.009   Lots divided by district lines
Administrative Mechanisms
   
152.020   Planning Board
   
152.021   Advisory committees
   
152.022   Board of Adjustment
   
152.023   Land Use Administrator
   
152.024   Planning Director
   
152.025   Board of Commissioners
Zoning, Special Use, and Conditional Use Permits
   
152.040   Permits required
   
152.041   No occupancy, use, or sale of lots until requirements fulfilled
   
152.042   Who may submit permit applications
   
152.043   Applications to be complete
   
152.044   Staff consultation before formal application
   
152.045   Staff consultation after application submitted
   
152.046   Zoning permits
   
152.047   Authorizing use or occupancy before completion of development
   
152.048   Special use permits and conditional use permits
   
152.049   Burden of presenting evidence and persuasion
   
152.050   Recommendations on special use permit applications
   
152.051   Planning Board and planning staff recommendations on conditional use
permit applications
   
152.052   Board of Commissioners action on conditional use permits
   
152.053   Board of Adjustment action on special use permits
   
152.054   Additional requirements for special use permits and conditional use
permits
   
152.055   Authorizing use, occupancy, or sale before completion of development
under special use permits or conditional use permits
   
152.056   Completing developments in phases
   
152.057   Expiration of permits
   
152.058   Effect of permits on successors and assigns
   
152.059   Amendments to and modifications of permits
   
152.060   Reconsideration of Board action
   
152.061   Applications to be processed expeditiously
   
152.062   Maintenance of common areas, improvements, and facilities
Information Required with Applications
   
152.075   General
   
152.076   Written application
   
152.077   Development site plans
   
152.078   Graphic materials required for plans
   
152.079   Existing natural, human-made, and legal features
   
152.080   Proposed changes in existing features or new features
   
152.081   Documents and written information in addition to plans
   
152.082   Number of copies of plans and documents
Major and Minor Subdivisions
   
152.095   Regulation of subdivisions
   
152.096   No subdivision without plat approval
   
152.097   Minor subdivision approval process
   
152.098   Major subdivision approval process
   
152.099   Endorsements on major subdivision plats
   
152.100   Plat approval not acceptance of dedication offers
   
152.101   Protection against defects
   
152.102   Maintenance of dedicated areas until acceptance
Appeals, Variances, Special Exceptions, and Interpretations
   
152.115   Appeals
   
152.116   Variances
   
152.117   Special exception permits
   
152.118   Interpretations
   
152.119   Requests to be heard expeditiously
   
152.120   Board action regarding appeals and variances
Hearing Procedures for Appeals and Applications
   
152.135   Hearing required for appeals and applications
   
152.136   Notice of hearing
   
152.137   Evidence
   
152.138   Modification of application at hearing
   
152.139   Record
   
152.140   Written decision
   
152.141   Burden of proof
Enforcement and Review
   
152.155   Complaints regarding violations
   
152.156   Persons liable
   
152.157   Procedures upon discovery of violations
   
152.158   Permit revocation
   
152.159   Judicial review
Nonconforming Situations
   
152.170   Definitions
   
152.171   Continuation of nonconforming situations and completion of
nonconforming projects
   
152.172   Nonconforming lots
   
152.173   Extension or enlargement of nonconforming situations
   
152.174   Repair, maintenance, and reconstruction
   
152.175   Change in use of property where a nonconforming situation exists
   
152.176   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations
   
152.177   Completion of nonconforming projects
   
152.178   Authorization of nonconforming projects
   
152.179   Vested rights, site specific development plan
   
152.180   Vested rights upon issuance of building permits
   
152.181   Nonconforming signs
   
152.182   Nonconforming mobile home communities
Zoning Districts and Map
   
152.195   Residential Districts established
   
152.196   Commercial Districts established
   
152.197   Park District established
   
152.198   Floodplain and Floodway Districts
   
152.199   Agricultural-Residential District established
    
152.200   Water Supply Watershed Protection Overlay District
   
152.201   Official zoning map
   
152.202   Amendments to official zoning map
Permissible Uses
   
152.215   Table of permissible uses
   
152.216   Use of designations P, S, and C in the table of permissible uses
   
152.217   Board of Adjustment jurisdiction over uses otherwise permissible with
a zoning permit
   
152.218   Permissible uses and specific exclusions
   
152.219   Accessory uses
   
152.220   Permissible uses not requiring permits
   
152.221   Change in use
   
152.222   Developments in the GB zoning district
   
152.223   Combination uses
   
152.224   More specific use controls
Supplementary Use Regulations
   
152.235   Manufactured home parks
   
152.236   Temporary emergency, construction, or repair residences
   
152.237   Special events
   
152.238   Gasoline service or filling stations
   
152.239   Junk yards
   
152.240   Temporary seasonal businesses
   
152.241   Kennels and pet shops
   
152.242   Class I kennels
   
152.243   Class II kennels
   
152.244   Pet shops
   
152.245   Communication towers
   
152.246   Sexually-oriented businesses
   
152.247   Horse farms
   
152.248   Electronic gaming operations
Industrial Manufacturing and Processing Performance Standards
   
152.260   Smoke
   
152.261   Noise
   
152.262   Electrical disturbance or interference
   
152.263   Odor
   
152.264   Air pollution
   
152.265   Disposal of liquid wastes
Density and Dimensional Regulations and Architectural Standards
   
152.280   Minimum lot size
   
152.281   Residential density
   
152.282   Minimum lot widths
   
152.283   Building setback requirements
   
152.284   Accessory building setback requirements
   
152.285   Building height limitations
   
152.286   Cluster subdivisions
   
152.287   Architecturally integrated subdivisions
   
152.288   Density on lots where portion dedicated to town
   
152.289   Fences and walls
Recreational Facilities and Open Space
   
152.300   Miniparks required
   
152.301   Miniparks, purpose and standards
   
152.302   Usable open space
   
152.303   Ownership and maintenance of recreational areas and open space
   
152.304   Dedication of open space
   
152.305   Homeowners’ associations
   
152.306   Flexibility in administration authorized
   
152.307   Payment in-lieu fees
Streets and Sidewalks
   
152.320   Street classification
   
152.321   Access to lots
   
152.322   Access to arterial streets
   
152.323   Entrances to streets
   
152.324   Coordination with surrounding streets
   
152.325   Relationship of streets to topography
   
152.326   Street width, sidewalk, and drainage requirements in subdivisions
   
152.327   General layout of streets
   
152.328   Street intersections
   
152.329   Construction standards and specifications
   
152.330   Public streets and private roads in subdivisions
   
152.331   Road and sidewalk requirements in unsubdivided developments
   
152.332   Attention to disabled in street and sidewalk construction
   
152.333   Street names and house numbers
   
152.334   Bridges
   
152.335   Utilities
   
152.336   Specifications for driveway entrances
Specifications for Street Design and Construction
   
152.350   Design speed, sight distance, centerline radius
   
152.351   Cut and fill slopes
   
152.352   Sight distances at intersections
   
152.353   Radius at street intersections
   
152.354   Clearing and grubbing
   
152.355   Grading and compacting
   
152.356   Street base
   
152.357   Street surfaces
   
152.358   Pavement section variations
   
152.359   Street cross-sections
   
152.360   Curb and gutter
   
152.361   Sidewalks
   
152.362   Wheelchair ramps
   
152.363   Stormwater runoff control
   
152.364   Sedimentation control
   
152.365   Entrances onto streets
Utilities
   
152.380   Utility ownership and easement rights
   
152.381   Lots served by town/county/MOWASA owned water and sewer lines
   
152.382   Sewage disposal facilities required
   
152.383   Determining compliance with §
152.382
   
152.384   Water supply systems required
   
152.385   Determining compliance with §
152.384
   
152.386   Lighting requirements
   
152.387   Excessive illumination
   
152.388   Electric power
   
152.389   Telephone service
   
152.390   Underground utilities
   
152.391   Utilities to be consistent with internal and external development
   
152.392   As-build drawings required
   
152.393   Fire hydrants
   
152.394   Sites for and screening of dumpsters
Floodways, Floodplains, Drainage, and Erosion
   
152.405   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose, and objectives
   
152.406   Definitions
   
152.407   General provisions
   
152.408   Administration
   
152.409   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
152.410   Legal status provisions
   
152.411   Special provisions for subdivisions
   
152.412   Water supply and sanitary sewer systems in floodways and floodplains
   
152.413   Setbacks from streams outside designated floodplains
   
152.414   Natural drainage system utilized to extent feasible
   
152.415   Developments must drain properly
   
152.416   Stormwater management
   
152.417   Sedimentation and erosion control
Signs
   
152.430   Definitions
   
152.431   Permit required for signs
   
152.432   Signs excluded from regulation
   
152.433   Certain temporary signs: permit exemptions and additional regulations
   
152.434   Determining the number of signs
   
152.435   Computation of sign area
   
152.436   Total sign surface area
   
152.437   Freestanding sign surface area
   
152.438   Number of freestanding signs
   
152.439   Subdivision and multifamily development entrance signs
   
152.440   Location and height requirements
   
152.441   Sign illumination and signs containing lights
   
152.442   Miscellaneous restrictions and prohibitions
   
152.443   Maintenance of signs
   
152.444   Unlawful cutting of trees or shrubs
   
152.445   Nonconforming signs
   
152.446   Amortization of nonconforming signs
Parking
   
152.460   Definitions
   
152.461   Number of parking spaces required, parking requirement chart
   
152.462   Flexibility in administration required
   
152.463   Parking space dimensions
   
152.464   Required widths of parking are aisles and driveways
   
152.465   General design requirements
   
152.466   Vehicle accommodation area surfaces
   
152.467   Joint use of required parking spaces
   
152.468   Satellite parking
   
152.469   Special provisions for lots with existing buildings
   
152.470   Loading and unloading areas
   
152.471   Curb and gutter required for parking areas for new commercial
development
Screening and Shading
   
152.485   Board of Commissioners’ findings concerning need for screening
requirements
   
152.486   General screening standard
   
152.4687   Compliance with screening standard
   
152.488   Descriptions of screens
   
152.489   Table of screening requirements
   
152.490   Flexibility in administration required
   
152.491   Combination uses
   
152.492   Subdivisions
   
152.493   Board of Commissioners’ findings and declaration of policy on shade
trees
   
152.494   Required trees along dedicated streets
   
152.495   Retention and protection of large trees
   
152.496   Shade trees in parking areas
   
152.497   New construction landscape requirements
Guide for Landscaping
   
152.510   Guide for protecting existing trees
   
152.511   Standard for street and parking lot trees
   
152.512   Formula for calculating shading
   
152.513   Guide for planting trees
   
152.514   Guide for planting shrubs
   
152.515   List of examples of trees and shrubs
   
152.516   Small trees for partial screening
   
152.517   Large trees for evergreen screening
   
152.518   Large trees for shading
   
152.519   Small shrubs for evergreen screening
   
152.520   Large shrubs for evergreen screening
   
152.521   Assorted shrubs for broken screens
   
152.522   Size at time of planting
   
152.523   New construction landscaping requirements
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
152.535   Purpose
   
152.536   Definitions
   
152.537   Classification
   
152.538   Conditional use permit required
   
152.539   Location of sexually-oriented businesses
   
152.540   Inspection
   
152.541   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
152.542   Exhibition regulations
   
152.543   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
152.544   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
152.545   Additional regulations concerning public nudity
   
152.546   Prohibition against children in a sexually-oriented business
   
152.547   Hours of operation
   
152.548   Exemptions
   
152.549   Injunction
Amendments
   
152.560   Amendments in general
   
152.561   Initiation of amendments
   
152.562   Planning Board consideration of proposed amendments
   
152.563   Hearing required; notice
   
152.564   Board of Commissioners action on amendments
   
152.565   Ultimate issue before Board of Commissioners on amendments
   
152.566   Protests to zoning district changes
Conditional Use District Rezoning
   
152.580   Application procedures
   
152.581   Site plan required
   
152.582   Planning Board review
   
152.583   Action by Board of Commissioners
   
152.584   Effect of approval
   
152.585   Changes in use
   
152.586   Revocation of conditional use permit
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Pinebluff Unified
Development Ordinance. The provisions in this chapter were originally adopted
and became effective on December 20, 2001.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to G.S.§ 160D-103.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the state statutes and whenever that section is later amended or superseded,
this chapter shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section of the
section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be effective throughout the town’s planning
jurisdiction and any duly established extraterritorial jurisdiction. Such
planning jurisdiction may be modified from time to time in accordance with this
chapter and state statutes.
   (B)   In addition to other locations required by law, a copy of a map
showing the boundaries of the town’s planning jurisdiction shall be available
for public inspection in the Town Hall.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.004 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAND DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are the same
in substance as the previously adopted provisions in the town’s ordinances,
said new provisions shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new
enactments unless otherwise specifically provided.
      (2)   In particular, a situation that did not constitute a lawful,
nonconforming situation under the previously adopted zoning ordinance does not
achieve lawful nonconforming status under this chapter merely by the repeal of
the zoning code.
   (B)   (1)   It is the intention of the Board of Commissioners that this
chapter implement the planning policies adopted by the Board of Commissioners,
as reflected in the land development plan and other planning documents.
      (2)   While the Board of Commissioners reaffirms its commitment that this
chapter and any amendment to it be in conformity with adopted planning
policies, the Board of Commissioners hereby expresses its intent that neither
this chapter nor any amendment to it may be challenged on the basis of any
alleged nonconformity with any planning document.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.005 CONFORMITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to §§
152.170 through
152.182, no person may use, occupy, or sell any land or buildings or authorize
or permit the use, occupancy, or sale of land or buildings under his, her, or
their control except in accordance with all of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the “use” or “occupancy” of a building
or land relates to anything and everything that is done to, on, or in that
building or land.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.006 FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Reasonable fees sufficient to cover the cost of administration,
inspection, publication of notice, and similar matters may be charged to
applicants for zoning permits, sign permits, conditional use permits, special
use permits, subdivision plat approval, zoning amendments, variances, and other
administrative relief.
      (2)   The amount of the fees charged shall be as set forth in the town’s
budget, or as established by a Board of Commissioners resolution filed in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Fees established in accordance with division (A) above shall be paid
upon submission of a signed application or notice of appeal.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.007 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an act
is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last
day.
      (1)   If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then this
the day shall be excluded.
      (2)   If the period of time prescribed is less than seven days, then
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to perform an act within a prescribed period after the
service of a notice or other paper and the notice or paper is served by mail,
three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
   (C)   As used in this chapter, words importing the masculine gender include
the feminine and neuter.
   (D)   Words used in the singular in this chapter include the plural, and
words used in the plural include the singular.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To cease or discontinue a use or activity without intent to
resume, but excluding temporary or short term interruptions to a use or
activity during periods of remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility, or during normal periods of vacation or seasonal
closure.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way, alley, or easement.
   ACCESSORY USE. See §
152.219.
   ADMINISTRATOR. See LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR.
   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction or
occupancy of an existing structure.
   ANTENNA. Equipment designed to transmit or receive electronic signals.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT (BOA). The local administrative body appointed by the
Board of Commissioners (BOC) whose responsibilities include:
      (1)   Hearing appeals from decisions by the Land Use Administrator;
      (2)   Considering and ruling on applications for special use permits; and
      (3)   Considering requests for variances from the provisions of this
chapter.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS (BOC). The governing body of the town.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A residential use consisting of at least one dwelling unit
together with more than two rooms that are rented or are designed or intended
to be rented out but which rooms, individually or collectively, do not
constitute separate dwelling units. A ROOMING HOUSE or BOARDING HOUSE is
distinguished from a tourist home in that the former is designed to be occupied
by longer term residents (at least month-to-month tenants) as opposed to
overnight or weekly guests.
   BUILDING. A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy, storage,
or shelter.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A minor building that is located on the same lot as a
principal building and that is used incidentally to a principal building or
that houses an accessory use.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The primary building on a lot or a building that houses
a principal use.
   BUILDING LINE. The line, parallel to the street line, that passes through
the point of the principal building nearest the front lot line.
   CERTIFY. Whenever this chapter requires that an agency CERTIFY the existence
of some fact or circumstance to the town, the town may require that such
CERTIFICATION be made in any manner that provides reasonable assurance of the
accuracy of the CERTIFICATION. By way of illustration, and without limiting the
foregoing, the town may accept CERTIFICATION by telephone from an agency when
the circumstances warrant, or the town may require that the CERTIFICATION be in
the form of a letter or other document.
   CHILD CARE HOME. A home for not more than nine orphaned, abandoned,
dependent, abused, or neglected children, together with not more than two
adults who supervise such children, all of whom live together a single
housekeeping unit.
   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility housing more than nine
orphaned, abandoned, dependent, abused, or neglected children.
   CHILD DAY CARE FACILITY, STATE REGULATED. Any child day care arrangement
that is subject to regulation by the state’s Department of Human Resources,
Division of Child Development, or a successor agency, other than a child day
care home. Child care arrangements for one or two children as well as other
specific types of arrangements are excluded from regulation by the state under
G.S. § 110-86(2).
   CHILD DAY CARE HOME. Any child day care arrangement wherein any person not
excluded in G.S. § 110-86(2) provides day care on a regular basis of at least
once per week for more than four hours but less than 24 hours per day for more
than two children under 13 years of age, but not to exceed a maximum of eight
children at any one time. Of the children present at any one time, no more than
five children shall be preschool-aged as defined by the state’s Child Day Care
Commission. Cooperative arrangements among parents to provide care for their
own children as a convenience rather than for employment are not included. To
determine whether a child care arrangement is a DAY CARE HOME, all children
shall be counted except the operator’s own school-aged children and school-aged
children who reside at the location of the DAY CARE HOME.
   CIRCULATION AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially,
driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the
CIRCULATION AREA.
   COMBINATION USE. A use (on one lot) that consists of a combination of two or
more principal uses which are separately listed in the table of permissible
uses in §
152.215. Under selected circumstances, a second principal use may be regarded
as accessory to the first, and thus, a COMBINATION USE is not established, see
§
152.219. In addition, when two or more separately owned or separately operated
enterprises occupy the same lot, and all such enterprises fall within the same
principal use classification, this shall not constitute a COMBINATION USE.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Commissioners that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter as well as any additional requirements imposed by
the Board of Commissioners.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A one-story, retail store containing less than 2,000
square feet of gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily
food, beverages, and other household supplies to customers who purchase only a
relatively few items (in contrast to a supermarket). It is designed to attract
and depends upon a large volume of stop-and-go traffic. Illustrative examples
of CONVENIENCE STORES are those operated by the Fast Fare, 7-11, and Pantry
chains.
   DEVELOPER/APPLICANT. A person who is responsible for any undertaking that
requires a zoning permit, special use permit, conditional use permit, or sign
permit.
   DEVELOPMENT. That which is to be performed pursuant to a zoning permit,
special use permit, conditional use permit, or sign permit.
   DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height, size, or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship between
an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does not
conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located.
   DISABLED OR HANDICAPPED.
      (1)   Having:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities so that such person is incapable of
living independently;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
      (2)   The term DISABLED; however, shall not include current illegal use
of or addiction to a controlled substance, nor shall it include any person
whose residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the health and
safety of other individuals.
   DISABLED, HANDICAPPED OR INFIRM HOME. A residence within a single dwelling
unit for at least six but not more than nine persons who are physically or
mentally handicapped, aged, or infirm, together with not more than two persons
providing care or assistance to such persons, all living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
   DISABLED, HANDICAPPED, AGED, OR INFIRM INSTITUTION. A facility that provides
residential care for more than nine aged, disabled, or handicapped persons
whose principal need is a home with the sheltered or personal care their age or
disability requires. Medical care at such a facility is only occasional or
incidental, such as may be required in the home of any individual or family,
but the administration of medication is supervised. The residents of such a
facility do not occupy separate dwelling units, and this distinguishes such a
facility from a multifamily development occupied by the elderly, handicapped,
or disabled.
   DRIVEWAY. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a
travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
   DUPLEX. See RESIDENCE, DUPLEX.
   DWELLING UNIT. An enclosure containing sleeping, kitchen, and bathroom
facilities designed for and used or held ready for use as a permanent residence
by one family.
   EASEMENT. The right of a person, government agency, or public utility
company to use public or private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals (collectively the
“electronic gaming machines”ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS may include, but are
not limited to, Internet cafés, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming
machines/operations, or cybercafés. ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS do not include
the following:
      (1)   Any business that only sells Internet access without an
accompanying free entry into a game of chance; or
      (2)   Any lottery approved by the state or any nonprofit operation that
is otherwise lawful under state law (for example, church or civic organization
fundraisers).
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. The term also includes binding contractual commitments
to make future expenditures, as well as any other substantial changes in
position.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL PLANNING AREA. That portion of the town’s planning
jurisdiction that lies outside the town’s corporate limits.
   FACADE. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view or that wall
viewed by persons not within the building.
   FAMILY. One or more persons, living together as a single housekeeping unit,
related by blood, marriage or adoption. An unrelated minor living with an adult
in foster care shall also be considered a FAMILY member. In the case of primary
residences with accessory apartments, a FAMILY may live together as two
housekeeping units, one housekeeping unit being in the primary dwelling and one
housekeeping unit being in the accessory apartment.
   FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to be inundated by water from the base
flood. As used in this chapter, the term refers to that area designated as
subject to flooding from the base flood (100-year flood) on the “Flood Boundary
and Floodway Map” prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, a copy of which is on file in the Planning Department.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. As used
in this chapter, the term refers to that area designated as a FLOODWAY on the
“Flood Boundary and Floodway Map” prepared by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development, a copy of which is on file in the Planning Department.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimension of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or
storage.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building for the private use of the owner or occupant of
a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal building for the
storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair
of a commercial or public nature.
   GRADE. The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground,
paving, or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line,
or when the property line is more than five feet from the building, between the
building and a line five feet from the building.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor useable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or any combination thereof.
A floor used only for storage is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   HALFWAY HOUSE. A home for not more than nine persons who have demonstrated a
tendency toward alcoholism, drug abuse, mental illness as defined in G.S. §
122C-3(14), or antisocial or criminal conduct, together with not more than two
persons providing supervision and other services to such persons, all of whom
live together as a single housekeeping unit.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance which may pose a danger to the public
health or safety if contained in the public water supply. This includes all
substances defined as hazardous chemicals by the community right to know
reporting requirements under §§ 311 and 312 of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, and by the state’s Hazardous Chemicals Right to
Know Act (G.S. §§ 95-173 through 95-218).
   HIGH-VOLUME TRAFFIC GENERATION. All business uses in use classification
2.000 of the permissible use table other than low-volume traffic generation
uses.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A formally constituted nonprofit association or
corporation made up of the property owners and/or residents of a fixed area;
may take permanent responsibility for costs and up keep of semi-private
community facilities.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   A commercial activity that is:
         (a)   Conducted by a person on the same lot where such person resides;
and
         (b)   Not so insubstantial or incidental or is not so commonly
associated with the residential use as to be regarded as an accessory use (see
§ 152.219), but that can be conducted without any significant adverse impact on
the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a use may not be
regarded as having an insignificant adverse impact on the surrounding
neighborhood if:
         (a)   Goods, stock in trade, or other commodities are displayed;
         (b)   Any on-premises retail sales occur;
         (c)   More than one person not a resident on the premises is employed
in connection with the purported HOME OCCUPATION;
         (d)   It creates objectionable noise, fumes, odor, dust, or electrical
interference; and/or
         (e)   More than 25% of the total gross floor area of residential
buildings plus other buildings housing the purported HOME OCCUPATION, or more
than 500 square feet of gross floor area (whichever is less), is used for HOME
OCCUPATION purposes.
      (3)   The following is a non-exhaustive list of examples of enterprises
that may be HOME OCCUPATIONS if they meet the foregoing definitional criteria:
         (a)   The office or studio of a physician, dentist, artist, musician,
lawyer, architect, engineer, teacher, or similar professional;
         (b)   Workshops, greenhouses, or kilns; or
         (c)   Dressmaking or hairdressing studios.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products predominately from extracted or raw materials, or use
engaged in storage of, or industrial processes using flammable or explosive
materials, or storage or industrial processes that potentially involve
hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. A use engaged in the manufacture, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage,
sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing.
   INTERMEDIATE CARE HOME. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing
accommodations for not more than seven occupants needing medical care and
supervision at a lower level than that provided in a nursing care institution
but at a higher level than that provided in institutions for the handicapped or
infirm.
   INTERMEDIATE CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility maintained for the
purpose of providing accommodations for more than seven persons needing medical
care and supervision at a lower level than that provided in a nursing care
institution but at a higher level than that provided in institutions for the
handicapped or infirm.
   KENNEL. A commercial operation that:
      (1)   Provides food and shelter and care of animals for purposes not
primarily related to medical care (a KENNEL may or may not be run by or
associated with a veterinarian); or
      (2)   Engages in the breeding of animals for sale.
   LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR. The person primarily responsible for administering
and enforcing this chapter (see § 152.023 for more details about the LAND USE
ADMINISTRATOR). The terms ADMINISTRATOR, PLANNING DIRECTOR, and ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR are occasionally used interchangeably with LAND USE
ADMINISTRATOR.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of §
152.470.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by a legal
instrument such as a recorded deed or a recorded map. A LOT is recognized as a
separate legal unit for purposes of transfer of title.
      (2)   If a public body or any authority with the power or eminent domain
condemns, purchases, or otherwise obtains fee simple title to or a lesser
interest in a strip of land cutting across a parcel of land otherwise
characterized as a LOT by this definition, or a private road is created across
a parcel of land otherwise characterized as a LOT by this definition, and the
interest thus obtained or the road so created is such as effectively to prevent
the use of this parcel as one LOT, then the land on either side of this strip
shall constitute a separate LOT.
      (3)   Subject to §
152.172, the permit-issuing authority (see definition of “permit-issuing
authority” below) and the owner of two or more contiguous lots may agree to
regard the LOT as one when necessary or convenient to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot, except:
      (1)   When the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of the
lot extending into a public street right-of-way, then the lot boundary for
purposes of computing the LOT AREA shall be the street right-of-way line, or if
the right-of-way line cannot be determined, a line running parallel to and 30
feet from the center of the traveled portion of the street; and
      (2)   In a residential district, when a private road that serves more
than three dwelling units is located along any lot boundary, then the lot
boundary for purposes of computing the LOT AREA shall be the inside boundary of
the traveled portion of that road.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, FLAG. Lots or parcels that the town has approved with less frontage on
a public street than is normally required. The panhandle is an access corridor
to lots or parcels located behind lots or parcels with normally required street
frontage.
   LOT LINE. A line dividing one lot from another lot or from a street or
alley.
   LOW-VOLUME TRAFFIC GENERATION. Uses such as furniture stores, carpet stores,
major appliance stores, and the like. that sell items that are large and bulky,
that need a relatively large amount of storage or display area for each unit
offered for sale, and that therefore generate less customer traffic per square
foot of floor space than stores selling smaller items.
   MOBILE HOME. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Consisting of a single unit completely assembled at a factory, or
of two (double-wide) or three (triple-wide) principal components totally
assembled at a factory and joined together at the site;
      (2)   Designed so that the total structure (or in the case of double-
wides or triple-wides, each component thereof) can be transported on its own
chassis;
      (3)   Over 40 feet in length and over eight feet in width;
      (4)   Designed to be used as a dwelling and provides complete,
independent living facilities for one family, including permanent provisions
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation;
      (5)   Actually being used or held ready for use as a dwelling; and
      (6)   Not constructed in accordance with the standards set forth in the
State Building Code.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS A. A mobile home constructed after July 1, 1976, that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies each of the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The pitch of the home’s roof has a minimum vertical rise of one
foot for each five feet of horizontal run, and the roof is finished with a type
of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (2)   The exterior siding consists of wood, hardboard, or aluminum (vinyl
covered or painted, but in no case exceeding the reflectivity of gloss white
paint) comparable in composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior
siding commonly used in standard residential construction;
      (3)   A continuous, permanent masonry foundation, non-pierced except for
required ventilation and access, is installed under the home; and
      (4)   The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and removable towing
apparatus are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS B. A mobile home constructed after July 1, 1976, that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction but that does not satisfy the criteria necessary to qualify the
house as a Class A mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME, CLASS C. Any mobile home that does not meet the definitional
criteria of a Class A or Class B mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A residential use in which more than one mobile home is
located on a single lot.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in the State Building Code applicable to site-built homes and
composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and
transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation.
Among other possibilities, a MODULAR HOME may consist of two sections
transported to the site in a manner similar to a mobile home (except that the
MODULAR HOME meets the State Building Code applicable to site-built homes), or
a series of panels or room sections transported on a truck and erected or
joined together on the site.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter (and
not created for the purposes of evading the restrictions of this chapter) that
does not meet the minimum area requirement of the applicable district.
   NONCONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development, or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
of this chapter, any existing lot or structure or use of an existing lot or
structure does not conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to the
district in which the lot or structure is located. Among other possibilities, a
NONCONFORMING SITUATION may arise because a lot does not meet minimum acreage
requirements, because structures exceed maximum height limitations, because the
relationship between existing buildings and the land (in such matters as
density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with this chapter, or
because land or buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by this chapter.
Nonconforming signs shall not be regarded as NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS for
purposes of §§
152.170 through
152.182 but shall be governed by the provisions of §§
152.445 and
152.446.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. (For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a NONCONFORMING
USE.) The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the
property. (For example, all the activity associated with operating a retail
clothing store in a residentially zoned area constitutes a NONCONFORMING USE.)
   NURSING CARE HOME. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing
skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that
available in a hospital to more than nine persons.
   NURSING CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility maintained for the
purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower
level than that available in a hospital to more than nine persons.
   OUTSIDE DISPLAY OF GOODS FOR SALE OR RENT. Display outside of a fully
enclosed building of the particular goods or pieces of merchandise or equipment
that are themselves for sale. OUTSIDE DISPLAY is to be distinguished from
outside storage of goods that are not prepared and displayed for immediate sale
or rent.
   PARCEL. A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same person or persons.
   PARKING AREA AISLES. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area consisting
of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set aside for the
parking of one vehicle.
   PERMIT ISSUING AUTHORITY. A term that, depending upon the situation, refers
to one of the following: Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board
of Commissioners. See §
152.040 for additional details regarding the permit-issuing authority.
   PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization, or other entity acting as a unit.
   PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A development constructed on a tract of at
least five acres under single ownership, planned and developed as an integral
unit, and consisting of single-family detached residences combined with either
two-family residences or multifamily residences, or both.
   PLANNING BOARD. The local advisory body whose members are appointed by the
Board of Commissioners. The PLANNING BOARD’S responsibilities include:
      (1)   Recommending amendments to this chapter; and
      (2)   Recommending actions regarding conditional use permits (see §§
152.020 and
152.021).
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. A term used interchangeably with Land Use Administrator.
(See §
152.023.)
   PLANNING JURISDICTION. The area within the town limits as well as the area
beyond the town limits within which the town is authorized to plan for and
regulate development, as set forth in §
152.003.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. Any water supply system furnishing potable water
to ten or more dwelling units or businesses or any combination thereof.
   PRINCIPLE USE. The main use of land or structures, as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
   RESIDENCE, DUPLEX. A two-family residential use in which the dwelling units
share a common wall (including without limitation, the wall of an attached
garage or porch) and in which each dwelling unit has living space on the ground
floor and a separate ground floor entrance.
   RESIDENCE, MULTIFAMILY. A residential use consisting of a building
containing three or more dwelling units. For purposes of this definition, a
building includes all dwelling units that are enclosed within that building or
attached to it by a common floor or wall (even the wall of an attached garage
or porch).
   RESIDENCE, MULTIFAMILY APARTMENTS. A multifamily residential use other than
a multifamily conversion or multifamily townhouse.
   RESIDENCE, MULTIFAMILY CONVERSION. A multifamily residence containing not
more than four dwelling units and results from the conversion of a single
building containing at least 2,000 square feet of gross floor area that was in
existence on the effective date of this provision and that was originally
designed, constructed, and occupied as a single-family residence.
   RESIDENCE, MULTIFAMILY TOWNHOUSES. A multifamily residential use in which
each dwelling unit shares a common wall (including without limitation the wall
of an attached garage or porch) with at least one other dwelling unit and in
which each dwelling unit has living space on the ground floor and a separate,
ground floor entrance.
   RESIDENCE, PRIMARY WITH ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A residential use having the
external appearance of a single-family residence but in which there is located
a second dwelling unit that comprises not more than 25% of the gross floor area
of the building nor more than a total of 750 square feet. Only family members
of the primary dwelling owner or renter may reside in the accessory apartment.
   RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED, ONE-DWELLING UNIT PER LOT. A residential
use consisting of a single detached building containing one dwelling unit and
located on a lot containing no other dwelling units.
   RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY. A residential use consisting of a building containing
two dwelling units. If two dwelling units share a common wall, even the wall of
an attached garage or porch, the dwelling units shall be considered to be
located in one building.
   RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY APARTMENT. A two-family residential use other than a
duplex, two-family conversion, or primary residence with accessory apartment.
   RESIDENCE, TWO-FAMILY CONVERSION. A two-family residence resulting from the
conversion of a single building containing at least 2,000 square feet of gross
floor area that was in existence on the effective date of this provision and
that was originally designed, constructed and occupied as a single-family
residence.
   ROAD. All private ways used to provide motor vehicle access to:
      (1)   Two or more lots; or
      (2)   Two or more distinct areas of buildings in non-subdivided
developments.
   ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
   SENIOR CITIZEN RESIDENTIAL COMPLEX. A residential development consisting of
a combination of:
      (1)   Two-family or multifamily dwelling units, at least 90% of which are
one-bedroom units designed for and limited to occupancy by senior citizens; and
      (2)   An intermediate care institution for senior citizens containing a
number of bedrooms that does not exceed the number of dwelling units in the
complex and that is designed to house a number of senior citizens that does not
exceed twice the maximum permissible number of bedrooms in this intermediate
care facility. For purposes of this chapter, the term SENIOR CITIZEN means a
person who is 62 years of age or older or a household composed of one or more
persons at least one of whom is 62 years of age or older.
   SENIOR CITIZENS’ DAY CARE FACILITY. Any day care arrangement or center which
provides day care for more than five senior citizens at any one time, on a
regular basis of at least once per week for more than two hours but less than
24 hours per day. Operation of a day care facility for senior citizens is
considered use 22.300 “Senior citizens day care” in the table of permissible
uses.
   SIGN. Any device that is:
      (1)   Sufficiently visible to persons not located on the lot where such
device is located to accomplish either of the objectives set forth in division
(2) below; and
      (2)   Designed to attract the attention of such persons or to communicate
information to them.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that is attached to, erected on, or supported by
some structure (such as a pole, mast, frame, or other structure) that is not
itself an integral part of or attached to a building or other structure having
a principal function other than the support of a sign. A sign that stands
without supporting elements, such as a sandwich sign, is also a FREESTANDING
SIGN.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign that, on the effective date of this chapter,
does not conform to one or more of the regulations set forth in this chapter,
particularly §§
152.430 through
152.446.
   SIGNS, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or
other activity that is conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN PERMIT. A permit issued by the Land Use Administrator that authorizes
the recipient to erect, move, enlarge, or substantially alter a sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY.
      (1)   A sign that is:
         (a)   Used in connection with a circumstance, situation, or event that
is designed, intended or expected to take place or to be completed within a
reasonably short or definite period after the erection of such sign; or
         (b)   Intended to remain on the location where it is erected or placed
for a period of not more than 15 days.
      (2)   If a sign display area is permanent but the message displayed is
subject to periodic changes, that sign shall not be regarded as TEMPORARY.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. Circuses, fairs, carnivals, festivals, or other types of
special events that:
      (1)   Run for longer than one day but not longer than two weeks;
      (2)   Are intended to or likely to attract substantial crowds; and
      (3)   Are unlike the customary or usual activities generally associated
with the property where the SPECIAL EVENT is to be located.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to deviate from the otherwise applicable requirements
of this chapter under the specific circumstances and in accordance with the
conditions set forth in §
152.117.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter as well as any additional requirements imposed by
the Board of Adjustment.
   STREET. A public street, or a street which an offer of dedication has been
made.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A major street in the town’s street system that serves as
an avenue for the circulation of traffic onto, out, or around the town and
carries high volumes of traffic.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic
between minor, local, and sub collector streets and arterial streets but that
may also provide direct access to abutting properties. It serves or is designed
to serve, directly or indirectly, more than 100 dwelling units and is designed
to be used or is used to carry more than 800 trips per day.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A street that terminates in a vehicular turnaround.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street whose sole function is to provide access to abutting
properties. It serves or is designed to serve at least ten but not more than 25
dwelling units and is expected to or does handle between 75 and 200 trips per
day.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS. A street that is parallel to and adjacent to an
arterial street and that is designed to provide access to abutting properties
so that these properties are somewhat sheltered from the effects of the through
traffic on the arterial street and so that the flow of traffic on the arterial
street is not impeded by direct driveway access from a large number of abutting
properties.
   STREET, MINOR. A street whose sole function is to provide access to abutting
properties. It serves or is designed to serve not more than nine dwelling units
and is expected to or does handle up to 75 trips per day.
   STREET, SUBCOLLECTOR. A street whose principal function is to provide access
to abutting properties but is also designed to be used or is used to connect
minor and local streets with collector or arterial streets. Including
residences indirectly served through connecting streets, it serves or is
designed to serve at least 26 but not more than 100 dwelling units and is
expected to or does handle between 200 and 800 trips per day.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into two or more lots, building
sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building development
(whether immediate or future) and including all divisions of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; but the following
shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations
of this chapter applicable strictly to SUBDIVISIONS:
      (1)   Combination or recombination of portions of previously platted lots
where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the minimum standards set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   Division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   Public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for widening or
opening streets; and
      (4)   Division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the minimum standards set forth in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION, ARCHITECTURALLY INTEGRATED. A subdivision in which approval is
obtained not only for the division of land into lots but also for a
configuration of principal buildings to be located on such lots. The plans for
an architecturally integrated subdivision shall show the dimensions, height,
and location of all such buildings to the extent necessary to comply with the
purpose and intent of architecturally integrated subdivisions as set forth in §
152.286.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision other than a minor subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision that does not involve any of the
following:
      (1)   Creation of more than a total of four lots;
      (2)   Creation of any new public streets;
      (3)   Extension of a public water or sewer system; or
      (4)   Installation of drainage improvements through one or more lots to
serve one or more other lots.
   TEMPORARY EMERGENCY, CONSTRUCTION, OR REPAIR RESIDENCE. A residence (which
may be a mobile home) that is located on:
      (1)   The same lot as a residence made uninhabitable by fire, flood, or
other natural disaster and occupied by the persons displaced by such disaster;
      (2)   The same lot as a residence that is under construction and occupied
by the persons intending to live in such permanent residence when the work is
completed; or
      (3)   A nonresidential construction site and occupied by persons having
construction or security responsibilities over such construction site.
   TOWER. Any structure whose principal function is to support one or more
antennas.
   TRACT. A lot (see definition of lot). The term TRACT is used interchangeably
with the term lot, particularly in the context of subdivisions, where one TRACT
is subdivided into several lots.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure that is:
      (1)   Intended to be transported over the streets and highways (either as
a motor vehicle or attached to or hauled by a motor vehicle); and
      (2)   Designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters but that does not
satisfy one or more of the definitional criteria of a mobile home.
   USE. A use listed in the table of permissible uses.
   UTILITY FACILITIES. Any above-ground structures or facilities (other than
buildings, unless such buildings are used as storage incidental to the
operation of such structures or facilities) owned by a governmental entity, a
nonprofit organization, a corporation, or any entity defined as a public entity
for any purpose by state law and used in connection with the production,
generation, transmission, delivery, collection, or storage of water,
electricity, gas, oil, or electronic signals. Excepted from this definition are
utility lines and supporting structures listed in §
152.220.
   UTILITY FACILITIES, COMMUNITY OR REGIONAL. All utility facilities other than
neighborhood facilities.
   UTILITY FACILITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD. Utility facilities that are designed to
serve the immediately surrounding neighborhood and that must, for reasons
associated with the purpose of the utility in question, be located in or near
the neighborhood where such FACILITIES are proposed to be located.
   VARIANCE. A grant of permission by the Board of Adjustment that authorizes
the recipient to do that which, according to the strict letter of this chapter,
he, she, or they could not otherwise legally do.
   VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles
for access, circulation, parking, and loading and unloading. It comprises the
total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas.
   WHOLESALE SALES. On-premises sales of goods primarily to customers engaged
in the business of reselling the goods.
   WOODED AREA. An area of contiguous wooded vegetation where trees are at a
density of at least one six-inch or greater caliper tree per 325 square feet of
land and where the branches and leaves form a contiguous canopy.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. A term used interchangeably with Land Use
Administrator. (See §
152.023.)
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Land Use Administrator that authorizes
the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.009 LOTS DIVIDED BY DISTRICT LINES.
   (A)   Whenever a single lot two acres or less in size is located within two
or more different zoning districts, the district regulations applicable to the
district within which the larger portion of the lot lies shall apply to the
entire lot.
   (B)   Whenever a single lot greater than two acres in size is located within
two or more different zoning districts, each portion of that lot shall be
subject to all the regulations applicable to the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
§ 152.020 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment and terms of Planning Board.
      (1)   (a)   There shall be a Planning and Zoning Commission, the Planning
Board, consisting of six members and up to six alternative members made up of
residents of the town and the town’s extra-territorial jurisdiction (ETJ).
         (b)   The number of members from each of the town and of the ETJ shall
be determined, as prescribed by state law, by the proportion of the populations
of each area.
         (c)   1.   Four members shall reside in the town, and said in-town
members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
            2.   Two members shall reside within the town’s ETJ, and the ETJ
members shall be appointed by the County Commissioners.
         (d)   If, despite good faith efforts, residents of the ETJ area cannot
be found to fill the seats reserved for ETJ residents, then the Board of
Commissioners may appoint other residents of the county (including residents of
the town) to fill such seats.
         (e)   If the County Commissioners fail to make appointments within 90
days of receiving a resolution from the town requesting such appointments, then
the town’s Board of Commissioners may make said appointments.
      (2)   (a)   Each member of the Planning Board shall be appointed to a
term of three years.
         (b)   Original appointments shall be made in the following manner:
            1.   One in-town member shall be appointed for one year;
            2.   Two in-town members shall be appointed for two years; and
            3.   One in-town member and one ETJ member shall be appointed for
three years.
         (c)   Vacancies on the Planning Board shall be filled by appointment
for the unexpired terms.
         (d)   Members may be appointed to unlimited successive terms.
         (e)   Prior to assuming duties, all members of the Planning Board
shall take and subscribe to the oath of office required by officials of the
town.
         (f)   Alternate members shall be appointed for three-year terms.
      (3)   The members of the Planning Board shall:
         (a)   Be persons of recognized experience and qualifications;
         (b)   Not hold any other official position; and
         (c)   Serve without compensation.
      (4)   (a)   Planning Board members may be removed by the Board of
Commissioners at any time for failure to attend four consecutive meetings
within any 12-month period, or whose percentage of attendance over any period
of 12 consecutive months is less than 60%, or for any other good cause related
to performance of duties.
         (b)   Upon request of the member proposed for removal, the Board of
Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the removal before said removal becomes
effective.
      (5)   (a)   One alternative member shall be selected by the Board of
Commissioners.
         (b)   Alternate members shall serve in the absence of regular members,
and shall have full voting powers when sitting at a meeting.
      (6)   (a)   If an in-town member moves outside the town or if an ETJ
member moves outside the ETJ, then such move shall constitute a resignation
from the Planning Board.
         (b)   The effective date of said resignation shall be the date that a
replacement member is appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Meetings of the Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall meet regularly on the third Tuesday of
each month.
      (2)   Since the Planning Board has only advisory authority, it need not
conduct its meetings strictly in accordance with the quasi-judicial procedures
set forth in this chapter; however, the Planning Board shall conduct its
meetings so as to obtain necessary information, and to promote the full and
free exchange of ideas.
      (3)   Minutes shall be kept of all Planning Board proceedings.
      (4)   All Planning Board meetings shall be open to the public, and
whenever feasible, the agenda for each meeting shall be made available in
advance of the meeting.
      (5)   Whenever the Planning Board is called upon to make recommendations
concerning a conditional use permit request, special use permit request, or
other request for a recommendation, the town’s planning staff shall notify the
property owners, public, and interested parties as provided in §
152.136.
   (C)   Quorum and voting.
      (1)   A quorum for the purpose of convening the Planning Board for any
official action shall consist of a minimum of four members.
      (2)   All actions of the Planning Board shall be taken by majority vote,
a quorum being present.
      (3)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
   (D)   Planning Board officers.
      (1)   (a)   At its first meeting in January of each year, the Planning
Board shall, by majority vote of its membership (excluding vacant seats) elect
one member to serve as Chairperson (to preside over the meetings), and one
member to serve as Vice-Chairperson.
         (b)   The individuals designated as Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
shall serve in these capacities for terms of one year.
         (c)   Vacancies in these positions may be filled for the unexpired
terms only by majority vote of the Planning Board (excluding vacant seats).
      (2)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall take part in all
deliberations, and shall vote on all issues.
   (E)   Powers and duties of Planning Board.
      (1)   The Planning Board may:
         (a)   Make studies and recommend to the Board of Commissioners plans,
goals, and objectives relating to the growth, development, and redevelopment of
the town;
         (b)   Develop and recommend to the Board of Commissioners policies,
ordinances, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner;
         (c)   Make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners concerning
proposed conditional use permits and proposed zoning map changes, as provided
by §§
152.051 and 152.567; and/or
         (d)   Make recommendations to the Land Use Administrator regarding
minor subdivision approvals.
      (2)   The Planning Board may adopt rules and regulations governing its
procedures and operations provided that such rules and regulations are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.021 ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
   (A)   (1)   From time to time, the Board of Commissioners may appoint one or
more individuals to help the Planning Board carry out its planning
responsibilities with respect to a particular subject area.
      (2)   By way of illustration and without limitation, the Board of
Commissioners may appoint advisory committees to consider thoroughfare plans,
bikeway plans, housing plans, economic development plans, and the like.
   (B)   (1)   Members of such advisory committees shall sit as nonvoting
members of the Planning Board when such issues are being considered.
      (2)   Members of advisory committees shall lend their talents, energies,
and expertise to the Planning Board; however, all formal recommendations to the
Board of Commissioners shall be made by the Planning Board.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board of Commissioners from
establishing independent advisory groups, committees, or commissions to make
recommendations, on any issue, directly to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.022 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Appointment and terms of the members of the Board of Adjustment. The
members of the Planning Board shall serve the dual role as members of the
Planning Board, and members of the Board of Adjustment; therefor, the
appointment and term of the officers of the Board of Adjustment shall be
identical to that of the Planning Board.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall meet regularly on the fourth Tuesday
of each month.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct its meetings in accordance
with the quasi-judicial procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the
public, and whenever feasible, the agenda for each meeting shall be made
available in advance of the meeting.
   (C)   Quorum.
      (1)   (a)   A quorum for the Board of Adjustment shall consist of the
number of members equal to four-fifths of the regular membership (excluding
vacant seats).
         (b)   A quorum is necessary for the Board of Adjustment to take
official action.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall conduct its meetings in accordance
with the quasi-judicial procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Voting.
      (1)   The concurring vote of a majority of the regular Board of
Adjustment membership (excluding vacant seats) shall be necessary to:
         (a)   Reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
the Land Use Administrator;
         (b)   Decide in favor of an applicant regarding any matter which is
required to pass under this subchapter (including the issuance of a special use
permit); and
         (c)   Take any other actions, except variances. The concurring vote
four-fifths of the regular Board of Adjustment membership (excluding vacant
seats) shall be necessary to grant any variance.
      (2)   Once a member is physically present at a meeting, any subsequent
failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the member has
been excused in accordance with division (D)(3) below, or has been allowed to
withdraw from the meeting in accordance with division (D)(4) below.
      (3)   (a)   A member may be excused (also called “recused”) from voting
on a particular issue by majority vote of the remaining members present when
the members participation in or votes on any matter would violate affected
persons’ constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker.
         (b)   If an objection is raised to a member’s participation and that
member does not recuse himself, herself, or themself, the remaining members
shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
         (c)   Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not
limited to when:
            1.   The member has a direct financial interest in the outcome of
the matter at issue;
            2.   The matter at issue involves the member’s own official
conduct;
            3.   Participation in the matter might violate the letter or spirit
of a member’s code of professional responsibility;
            4.   A member has such close familial, business, or other ties to
the applicant that the member cannot reasonably be expected to exercise sound
judgment in the public interest;
            5.   A member has a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that
is not susceptible to change; or
            6.   A member has undisclosed ex parte communications. (EX PARTE
COMMUNICATION means a communication with only one party or side in a disputed
case.)
      (4)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member’s desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at that meeting.
      (5)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused
from the remainder of the meeting is in order only if made by or at the
initiative of the member directly affected.
      (6)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
   (E)   Board of Adjustment officers. The officers of the Board of Adjustment
shall be the same as the officers of the Planning Board.
   (F)   Powers and duties of Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide:
         (a)   Appeals from any order, decision, requirement, or interpretation
made by the Land Use Administrator (as provided in §
152.115);
         (b)   Applications for special use permits (as provided in §
152.040);
         (c)   Applications for variances (as provided in §
152.116);
         (d)   Questions involving interpretations of the zoning map, including
disputed district boundary lines and lot lines (as provided in §
152.118);
         (e)   Applications for special exception permits (as provided in §
152.117);
         (f)   Any other matter that the Board of Adjustment is required to act
upon by any other town ordinance; and
         (g)   Whether to subpoena witnesses.
            1.   The Chairperson may subpoena witnesses. The Chairperson shall
issue requested subpoenas he, she, or they determines to relevant, reasonable
in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The Chairperson shall rule on any
motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the
Chairperson may be appealed to the full Board of Adjustment. If a person fails
or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this division (F)(1)(g), the
Board or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court of
Justice for an order requiring that its order be obeyed, and the Court shall
have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
(See §
152.115.)
            2.   Other parties may request a subpoena. To request issuance of a
subpoena, persons with standing under §
152.115 may make a written request to the Chairperson explaining why it is
necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may adopt rules and regulations governing
its procedures and operations provided that said rules and regulations are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.023 LAND USE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the Board of Commissioners
shall assign primary responsibility for administering and enforcing this
chapter to one or more individuals, and the person or persons to whom these
responsibilities are assigned shall be referred to in this chapter as the “Land
Use Administrator.”
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the Land Use
Administrator shall have, under limited circumstances as described below, the
authority to amend the this chapter without following normal amendment
procedures when and only when, such amendment is to correct a minor error such
as a typo, clerical mistake, grammatical error, or other clear and obvious
mistake not changing the meaning of the chapter.
      (2)   The procedure for making such amendments shall be two-fold:
         (a)   First, the Land Use Administrator must contact the Town
Attorney, Town Clerk, and Mayor in writing prior to any amendment; and
         (b)   Second, the amendment must be documented to the Board of
Commissioners and made a part of the Board of Commissioners’ regular meeting
minutes at the next regularly scheduled Board of Commissioners’ meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.024 PLANNING DIRECTOR.
   The terms “Planning Director,” “Administrator,” and “Zoning Director” are
occasionally used interchangeably with “Land Use Administrator” as defined in §
152.023.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.025 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners is the governing body of the town.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners, in considering conditional use permit
applications, acts in a quasi-judicial capacity and, accordingly, is required
to observe the procedural requirements set forth in §
152.022.
   (C)   In considering proposed changes to the text of this chapter or to the
zoning map, the Board of Commissioners acts in its legislative capacity and
must proceed in accordance with the requirements of §§ 152.565 through 152.571.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, in acting upon
conditional use permit requests or in considering amendments to this chapter or
to the zoning map, the Board of Commissioners shall follow the regular, voting,
and other requirements as set forth in other provisions of the town code, the
town’s charter, or general law.
   (E)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from:
      (1)   The entire remainder of a meeting; or
      (2)   For a single item by majority vote of the remaining members present
for any good and sufficient reason other than the member’s desire to avoid
voting on matters to be considered at that meeting, or from quasi-judicial
hearings for the reasons listed in §
152.022. In addition, any member may abstain, without a motion and vote of the
Board, on any vote on an application brought under §§ 152.565 through 152.571,
including major or minor amendments, text amendments or conditional use
district rezoning. The vote of any member abstaining shall not be counted as an
affirmative vote.
   (F)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting on an item(s) or
excused from the remainder of the meeting is in order if the standards of §
152.022 apply.
   (G)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
ZONING, SPECIAL USE, AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 152.040 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The term “permit-issuing authority” is often used in this and other
sections in this chapter. The term “permit-issuing authority” means, depending
on the context, the Land Use Administrator, the Board of Adjustment, or the
Board of Commissioners. Typically, if the context relates to a zoning permit,
then a reference to “permit-issuing authority” means the Land Use
Administrator, if the context is related to a special use permit, then “permit-
issuing authority” means the Board of Adjustment (BOA), and if the context is
related to a conditional use permit, then “permit-issuing authority” means the
Board of Commissioners (BOC). The use made of property may not be substantially
changed, and substantial clearing, grading, or excavating may not be commenced,
and buildings or other substantial structures may not be constructed, erected,
moved, or substantially altered except in accordance with and pursuant to one
of the following permits:
      (1)   A zoning permit (and/or sign permit, as applicable) issued by the
Land Use Administrator;
      (2)   A special use permit issued by the Board of Adjustment; or
      (3)   A conditional use permit issued by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Pursuant to this chapter, zoning permits, special use permits,
conditional use permits, and sign permits will be issued only after a review of
a submitted application, including the plans contained therein, indicates that
a project or development, if completed as proposed, will comply with the
provisions of this chapter. Such applications and plans that are finally
approved shall be incorporated into any issued permit, and except as otherwise
provided in §
152.058, all projects(s) and development(s) shall occur strictly in accordance
with such approved applications and plans.
   (C)   Physical improvements to land to be subdivided may not be commenced
except in accordance with a conditional use permit issued by the Board of
Adjustment for major subdivisions or after final plat approval by the Land Use
Administrator for minor subdivisions. (See §§
152.095 through
152.102.)
   (D)   A zoning permit, special use permit, conditional use permit, or sign
permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant (except that applications
submitted by an agent shall be issued in the name of the principal), shall
identify the property involved and the proposed use, shall incorporate by
reference the plans submitted, and shall contain any special conditions or
requirements lawfully imposed by the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners). All such
permits issued with respect to tracts of land in excess of one acre (except
sign permits and zoning permits for single-family and two-family residential
uses) shall be recorded in the county’s Register of Deeds after execution by
the Land Use Administrator after execution by the record owner as provided in §
152.058.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.041 NO OCCUPANCY, USE, OR SALE OF LOTS UNTIL REQUIREMENTS FULFILLED.
   (A)   Issuance of a zoning permit, special use permit, or conditional use
permit authorizes the recipient to commence the activity resulting in a change
in use of the land, or (subject to obtaining a building permit) to commence
work designed to construct, erect, move, or substantially alter buildings or
other substantial structures, or to make necessary improvements to a
subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in §§
152.047,
152.055, and
152.056, however, intended uses may not be commenced, buildings may not be
occupied, and in the case of subdivisions, lots may not be sold until
compliance with all of the requirements of this chapter and all additional
requirements imposed pursuant to the issuance of a conditional use or special
use permit.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent an owner or agent of the owner
from entering into a contract to sell or lease under G.S. § 160D-807(b).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.042 WHO MAY SUBMIT PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for zoning permits, special use permits, conditional use
permits, sign permits, or minor subdivision plat approvals will be accepted
only from persons having the legal authority to take action in accordance with
the permit (or the minor subdivision plat approval). This means that
applications should be made by the owners or lessees of property, or their
agents, or persons who have contracted to purchase property contingent upon
their ability to acquire the necessary permits under this chapter, or the
agents of such persons (who may make application in the name of such owners,
lessees, or contract vendees).
   (B)   The Land Use Administrator may require an applicant to submit evidence
of his, her, or their authority in order to submit an application in accordance
with the division (A) above whenever there appears to be a reasonable basis for
questioning the applicant’s authority.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.043 APPLICATIONS TO BE COMPLETE.
   (A)   All applications for zoning, special use, conditional use, or sign
permits must be complete before the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) is required to
consider the application.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, an application is complete when it
contains all of the information that is necessary for the permit-issuing
authority to decide whether or not the development, if completed as proposed,
will comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   In this chapter, detailed or technical design requirements and
construction specifications relating to various types of improvements (streets,
sidewalks, and the like) are set forth in one or more of the appendices. It is
not necessary that the application contain the type of detailed construction
drawings that would be necessary to determine compliance with these appendices
provided that the application provides sufficient information to allow the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC) to evaluate the
application in the light of the substantive requirements set forth in this text
of this chapter. However, when this chapter requires a certain element of a
development to be constructed in accordance with the detailed requirements set
forth in one or more of these sections, then no construction work on such
element may be commenced until detailed construction drawings have been
submitted to and approved by the Land Use Administrator. Failure to observe
this requirement may result in permit revocation, denial of final subdivision
plat approval, or other penalty as provided in §§
152.155 through
152.159 and
152.999.
   (D)   The presumption established by this chapter is that all of the
information set forth in §§
152.075 through
152.082 is necessary to satisfy the requirements of this section; however, it
is recognized that each development is unique, and therefore the permit-issuing
authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC) may allow less information or
require more information to be submitted according to the needs of the
particular case. For applications submitted to the Board of Adjustment, the
applicant may rely in the first instance on the recommendations of the Land Use
Administrator as to whether more or less information than that set forth in §§
152.075 through
152.082 should be submitted.
   (E)   The Land Use Administrator shall make every effort to develop
application forms, instructional sheets, checklists, or other techniques or
devices to assist applicants in understanding the application requirements and
the form and type of information that must be submitted. In classes of cases
where a minimal amount of information is necessary to enable the Land Use
Administrator to determine compliance with this chapter, such as applications
for zoning permits to construct single-family or two-family houses or
applications for sign permits, the Land Use Administrator shall develop
standard forms that will expedite the submission of the necessary plans and
other required information.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.044 STAFF CONSULTATION BEFORE FORMAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   To minimize development planning costs, avoid misunderstanding or
misinterpretation, and ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
pre-application consultation between the developer and the planning staff is
encouraged or required as provided in this section.
   (B)   Before submitting an application for a conditional use permit
authorizing a development that consists of or contains a major subdivision, the
developer shall submit to the Land Use Administrator a sketch plan of such
subdivision, drawn approximately to scale (one inch equals 100 feet). The
sketch plan shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the developer;
      (2)   The proposed name and location of the subdivision;
       (3)   The approximate total acreage of the proposed subdivision;
      (4)   The tentative street and lot arrangement;
      (5)   Topographic lines; and
      (6)   Any other information the developer believes necessary to obtain
the informal opinion of the planning staff as to proposed subdivision’s
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Land Use Administrator shall meet with the developer as soon as
conveniently possible to review the sketch plan.
   (D)   Before submitting an application for any other permit, developers are
strongly encouraged to consult with the planning staff concerning the
application of this chapter to the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.045 STAFF CONSULTATION AFTER APPLICATION SUBMITTED.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a formal application for a zoning permit, special use
permit, conditional use permit, or minor plat approval the Land Use
Administrator shall review the application and confer with the applicant to
ensure that:
      (1)   The applicant understands the planning staff’s interpretation of
the applicable requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant has submitted all information that he, she, or they
intends to submit; and
      (3)   The application represents precisely and completely what the
applicant proposes to accomplish.
   (B)   (1)   If the application is for a special use permit or a conditional
use permit, then the Land Use Administrator shall place the application on the
agenda of a Board of Adjustment (special use permit) or Board of Commissioners
(conditional use permit) meeting when the applicant indicates that the
application is complete.
      (2)   If, however, as provided in §§
152.050 and
152.051, the Land Use Administrator believes that the application is
incomplete, then the Land Use Administrator shall recommend to the Board of
Adjustment or Board of Commissioners that the application be denied.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.046 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   A completed application for a zoning permit shall be submitted by
filing a copy of the application with the Land Use Administrator.
   (B)   The Land Use Administrator shall issue the zoning permit unless, after
reviewing the application and consulting with the applicant as provided in §
152.044, he, she, or they finds that:
      (1)   The requested permit is not within his, her, or their jurisdiction
according to the table of permissible uses (see §§
152.284 through
152.289) or a special use permit or conditional zoning is required, then the
Land Use Administrator will apply the minimum ordinance standards for the use
addressed by this subchapter that is most closely related to the land use
impacts of the proposed use and issue the zoning permit. The Land Use
Administrator may initiate an ordinance amendment addressing such proposed use,
provided that the drafting and adoption of said amendment will not cause
unreasonable delay in the permitting of the proposed use;
      (2)   The application is incomplete; or
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the development would
not comply with one or more of the requirements in this chapter (not including
the applicable requirements if a variance had previously been granted, or those
requirements that the applicant is not required to comply with under the
circumstances specified in §§
152.170 through
152.182).
   (C)   If the Land Use Administrator determines that the development for
which a zoning permit is requested will have, or may have, substantial impact
on surrounding properties, then the Land Use Administrator shall, at least ten
days before taking final action on the permit request, send a written notice to
those persons who have listed for taxation real property any portion of which
is within 150 feet of the property that is the subject of the application. The
notice shall inform said persons that:
      (1)   An application has been filed for a permit authorizing identified
property to be used in a specified way;
      (2)   All persons wishing to comment on the application should contact
the Land Use Administrator by a certain date; and
      (3)   Persons wishing to be informed of the outcome of the application
should send a written request for such notification to the Land Use
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.047 AUTHORIZING USE OR OCCUPANCY BEFORE COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT.
   In cases when, because of weather conditions or other factors beyond the
control of the zoning permit recipient (exclusive of financial hardship), it
would be unreasonable to require the zoning permit recipient to comply with all
of the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the intended use of the
property or occupying any buildings, the Land Use Administrator may authorize
the commencement of the intended use or occupancy of buildings (insofar as the
requirements of this chapter are concerned) if the permit recipient provides a
performance bond or other security satisfactory to the Land Use Administrator
to ensure that all of the requirements of this chapter will be fulfilled within
a reasonable period (not to exceed 12 months) as determined by the Land Use
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.048 SPECIAL USE PERMITS AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a special use permit shall be submitted to the
Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Land Use
Administrator.
   (B)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to the
Board of Commissioners by filing a copy of the application with the Land Use
Administrator.
   (C)   Subject to division (D) below, the Board of Adjustment shall issue the
requested permit unless it concludes, based upon the information submitted at
the hearing, that:
      (1)   The requested permit is not within its jurisdiction according to
the table of permissible uses, then the Board will apply the minimum ordinance
standards for the use addressed by this chapter that is most closely related to
the land use impacts of the proposed use and issue the zoning permit. The Board
may ask the Land Use Administrator to initiate an ordinance amendment
addressing such proposed use, provided that the drafting and adoption of said
amendment will not cause unreasonable delay in the permitting or the proposed
use;
      (2)   The application is incomplete; or
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the development would
not comply with one or more requirements of this chapter (not including the
requirements that applicant is not required to comply with under the
circumstances specified in §§
152.170 through
152.182).
   (D)   Even if the permit-issuing Board (BOA or BOC) finds that the
application complies with all other provisions of this chapter, then the
permit-issuing Board may still deny the permit if, based upon the information
submitted at the hearing, the proposed development is completed and said
development more probably than not will:
      (1)   Materially endanger the public health or safety;
      (2)   Substantially injure the value of adjoining or abutting property;
      (3)   Not be in harmony with the area in which it is to be located; or
      (4)   Not be in general conformity with the land use plan, thoroughfare
plan, or other plan officially adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.049 BURDEN OF PRESENTING EVIDENCE AND PERSUASION.
   (A)   The burden of presenting a complete application as described in §
152.043 to the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) shall be upon the applicant. The
application shall be presumed to be complete unless, at the hearing, the
permit-issuing authority informs the applicant that the application is
incomplete, provides the reasons why the application is incomplete, and offers
the applicant an opportunity to complete the application (either at that
meeting or a continuation hearing).
   (B)   Once a completed application has been submitted, the burden of
presenting sufficient evidence to lead the permit-issuing authority to conclude
that said application should be denied for any reason stated in §
152.048(C) or (D) shall be upon the party or parties urging the denial, unless
the information presented by the applicant in his, her, or their application
and at the public hearing is sufficient to justify a reasonable conclusion that
a reason exists to so deny the application.
   (C)   (1)   The burden of persuasion on the issue of whether the
development, if completed as proposed, will comply with the requirements of
this chapter remains at all times on the applicant.
      (2)   The burden of persuasion on the issue of whether the application
should be turned down for any reasons set forth in §
152.048(C) rests on the party or parties urging that the requested permit
should be denied.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.050 RECOMMENDATIONS ON SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   When presented to the Board of Adjustment at the hearing, the
application for a special use permit shall be accompanied by a report setting
forth:
      (1)   The planning staff’s proposed findings concerning the application’s
compliance with §
152.043;
      (2)   Other requirements of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any staff recommendations for additional requirements to be imposed
by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   If the staff proposes a finding or conclusion that the application
fails to comply with §
152.043, or with any other requirement of this chapter, then the staff shall
identify the requirement in question and specifically state supporting reasons
for the proposed findings or conclusions.
   (C)   The applicant may submit reports, arguments, proposed findings, or
other documents to the Land Use Administrator (on a schedule to be established
by the Land Use Administrator) to be forwarded to the Board of Adjustment with
the Land Use Administrator’s findings as required in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.051 PLANNING BOARD AND PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS ON CONDITIONAL USE
PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Before being presented to the Board of Commissioners, an application
for a conditional use permit shall be referred to the Planning Board for review
and action in accordance with this section. The Board of Commissioners may not
hold a public hearing on a conditional use permit application until the
Planning Board has had an opportunity to consider the application (pursuant to
standard agenda procedures) at one regular meeting. In addition, at the request
of the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners may continue the public
hearing to allow the Planning Board more time to consider the application.
   (B)   When presented to the Planning Board, a conditional use permit
application shall be accompanied by a report setting forth:
      (1)   The planning staff’s proposed findings concerning the application’s
compliance with §
152.043;
      (2)   Other requirements of this chapter; and
      (3)   Any staff recommendations for additional requirements to be imposed
by the Board of Commissioners. If the planning staff report proposes a finding
or conclusion that the application fails to comply with §
152.043 or any other requirement of this chapter, then the report shall
identify the requirement in question and specifically state supporting reasons
for the proposed findings or conclusions.
   (C)   The applicant may submit reports, arguments, proposed findings, or
other documents to the Land Use Administrator (on a schedule to be established
by the Land Use Administrator) to be forwarded to the Board of Adjustment with
the Land Use Administrator’s findings as required in division (A) above.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall consider the application and the attached
staff report in a timely fashion, and will hear from the applicant or members
of the public. (See §
152.136.)
   (E)   In response to the Planning Board’s recommendations, the applicant may
modify this application prior to submission to the Board of Commissioners, and
the planning staff may likewise revise its recommendations.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.052 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ACTION ON CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   In considering whether to approve an application for a conditional use
permit, the Board of Commissioners shall proceed according to the following
format.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall consider whether the
application is complete.
      (2)   If no member moves that the application be found incomplete
(specifying either the particular type of information lacking or the particular
requirement with respect to which the application is incomplete), then this
shall be taken as an affirmative finding by the Board of Commissioners that the
application is complete.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall consider whether the application
complies with all of the applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   If a motion to this effect passes, then the Board of Commissioners
need not make further findings concerning such requirements.
      (2)   If such a motion fails or is not made, then a motion shall be made
that the application be found not in compliance with one or more of the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Such a motion shall specify the particular requirements the
application fails to meet.
      (4)   Separate votes may be taken with respect to each requirement not
met by the application.
      (5)   It shall be conclusively presumed that, through this application
process, the application complies with all requirements not found by the Board
of Commissioners to be unsatisfied.
   (C)   If the Board of Commissioners concludes that the application fails to
comply with one or more requirements of this chapter, then the application
shall be denied.
      (1)   If the Board of Commissioners concludes that all such requirements
are met, then the Board shall issue the permit unless the Board adopts a motion
to deny the application for one or more of the reasons set forth in §
152.048.
      (2)   Such a motion shall state specific findings, based upon the
evidence submitted, justifying the conclusion.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.053 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ACTION ON SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   In considering whether to approve an application for a special use
permit, the Board of Adjustment (BOA) shall proceed in the same manner that the
Board of Commissioners proceeds when considering an application for a
conditional use permit applications. (See §
152.052.)
   (B)   When considering whether to approve an application for a special use,
the BOA shall proceed according to the following format.
      (1)   The BOA shall consider whether the application is complete.
         (a)   If the BOA concludes an application is incomplete and the
applicant refuses to provide the necessary information, then the application
shall be denied.
         (b)   A motion to this effect shall specify either the particular type
of information lacking or the particular requirement with respect to which the
application is incomplete.
         (c)   A motion to this effect, concurred by two members of the Board,
shall constitute the BOA’s finding on this issue.
         (d)   If a motion to this effect is not made and concurred in by at
least two members, then this shall be taken as an affirmative finding by the
BOA that the application is complete.
      (2)   The BOA shall consider whether the application complies with all of
the applicable requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   If a motion to this effect passes by the necessary four-fifths
vote, then the BOA need not make further findings concerning such requirements.
         (b)   If such a motion fails to receive the necessary four-fifths vote
or is not made, then a motion shall be made that the applicant be found not in
compliance with one or more requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Such a motion shall specify the particular requirements the
application fails to meet.
         (d)   A separate vote may be taken with respect to each requirement
not met by the application, and the vote of the number of members equal to more
than one-fifth of the BOA membership (excluding vacant seats) in favor of such
a motion shall be sufficient to constitute such motion a finding of the BOA.
         (e)   It shall be conclusively presumed that the application complies
with all requirements not found by the BOA to be unsatisfied through this
process.
         (f)   As provided in §
152.048, if the Board concludes that the application fails to meet one or more
of the requirements of this chapter, then the application shall be denied.
      (3)   (a)   If the BOA concludes that all such requirements are met, then
it shall issue the permit unless it adopts a motion to deny the application for
one or more of the reasons set forth in §
152.048.
         (b)   Such a motion shall state specific findings, based upon the
evidence submitted, justifying the conclusion.
         (c)   Since such a motion is not in favor of the applicant, it is
carried by a simple majority vote.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.054 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS AND CONDITIONAL USE
PERMITS.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, in granting special use permits or
conditional use permits, the Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioners,
respectively, may attach to the permit such reasonable requirements (in
addition to those specified in this chapter) to ensure that the development in
its proposed location will:
      (1)   Not endanger the public health or safety;
      (2)   Not injure the value of adjoining or abutting property;
      (3)   Be in harmony with the area in which it is located; and
      (4)   Be in conformity with the land-use plan, thoroughfare plan, or
other plan officially adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The permit-issuing board (BOA or BOC) may not attach additional
conditions that modify or alter the specific requirements set forth in this
chapter unless the development in question presents extraordinary circumstances
that justify the variation from the specified requirements.
   (C)   Without limiting the foregoing, the BOA or BOC may attach to a permit
a condition limiting the permit for a specified duration.
   (D)   All additional conditions or requirements shall be included on the
permit.
   (E)   All additional conditions or requirements authorized by this section
are enforceable in the same manner and to the same extent as any other
applicable requirement of this chapter.
   (F)   A vote may be taken on application conditions or requirements before
consideration of whether the permit should be denied for any reason(s) as set
forth in §
152.048.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.055 AUTHORIZING USE, OCCUPANCY, OR SALE BEFORE COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT
UNDER SPECIAL USE PERMITS OR CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   In cases when, because of weather conditions or other factors beyond
the control of the special use or conditional use permit recipient (exclusive
of financial hardship) it would be unreasonable to require the permit recipient
to comply with all of the requirements of this chapter before commencing the
intended use of the property or occupying any buildings or selling lots in a
subdivision, the permit-issuing board (BOA or BOC) may authorize the
commencement of the intended use or the occupancy of buildings or the sale of
subdivision lots (insofar as the requirements of this chapter are concerned) if
the permit recipient provides a performance bond or other security satisfactory
to the permit-issuing board to ensure that all of these requirements will be
fulfilled within a reasonable period (not to exceed 12 months).
   (B)   When the permit-issuing board (BOA or BOC) imposes additional
requirements upon the permit recipient in accordance with §
152.054 or when the developer proposes in the plans submitted to install
amenities beyond those required by this chapter, the permit-issuing board may
authorize the permittee to commence the intended use of the property or to
occupy any building or to sell any subdivision lots before the additional
requirements are fulfilled or the amenities installed if the permit-issuing
board specifies a date by which or a schedule according to which such
requirements must be met or each amenity installed, and if the permit-issuing
board concludes that compliance will be ensured as the result of any one or
more of the following:
      (1)   A performance bond or other security to the permit-issuing board is
furnished;
      (2)   A condition is imposed establishing an automatic expiration date on
the permit, thereby ensuring that the permit recipient’s compliance will be
reviewed when application for renewal is made; and/or
      (3)   The nature of the requirements or amenities is such that sufficient
assurance of compliance is given by §§
152.158 and
152.999.
   (C)   With respect to subdivisions in which the developer is selling only
undeveloped lots, the Board of Commissioners may authorize final plat approval
and the sale of lots before all the requirements of this chapter are fulfilled
if the subdivider provides a performance bond or other security (satisfactory
to the Board of Commissioners) to ensure that all of the requirements will be
fulfilled within not more than 12 months after final plat approval.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any owner or its agent from
entering into contracts to sell or lease by reference to an approved
preliminary plat for which a final plat has not yet been properly approved
under §§
152.095 through
152.102 or recorded with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
Statutory reference:
   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions, see G.S. § 160D-
807
§ 152.056 COMPLETING DEVELOPMENTS IN PHASES.
   (A)   If a development is constructed in phases or stages in accordance with
this section, then, subject to division (C) below, the provisions of §§
152.041 and
152.055 shall apply to each phase as if it were the entire development.
   (B)   As a prerequisite to taking advantage of the provisions of division
(A) above, the developer shall submit plans that clearly show:
      (1)   The various phases or stages of the proposed development; and
      (2)   The requirements of this chapter that will be satisfied with
respect to each phase or stage.
   (C)   (1)   If a development that is to be built in phases or stages
includes improvements that are designed to, relate to, benefit, or are to be
used by the entire development (such as a swimming pool or tennis courts in a
residential development) then, as part of the application for development
approval, the developer shall submit a proposed schedule of completion
regarding such improvements.
      (2)   The schedule shall relate completion of such improvements to
completion of one or more phases or stages of the entire development.
      (3)   Once a schedule has been approved and made part of the permit by
the permit-issuing authority, no land may be used, no buildings may be
occupied, and no subdivision lots may be sold except in accordance with the
schedule approved as part of the permit, provided that.
         (a)   If the improvement is one required by this chapter, then the
developer may utilize the provision of §
152.055(A) or (C).
         (b)   If the improvement is an amenity, not required by this chapter,
or is provided in response to a condition imposed by the permit-issuing
authority, then the developer may utilize the provisions of §
152.055.
         (c)   Changes in phasing schedules may be made in the same manner as
other permit modifications pursuant to the procedures set forth in §
152.059.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.057 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Zoning permits, special use permits, conditional use permits, and sign
permits shall expire automatically if, within two years after the issuance of
such permits (i.e., the “vested period”):
      (1)   The use authorized by such permits has not commenced, in
circumstances where no substantial construction, erection, alteration,
excavation, demolition, or similar work is necessary before commencement of
such use; or
      (2)   Less than 10% of the total cost of all construction, erection,
alteration, excavation, demolition, or similar work on any development
authorized by such permits has been completed on the site. With respect to a
phased development (§
152.056), this requirement shall apply only to the first phase.
   (B)   If a physical alteration to land or structures begins to take place
following the 24 month vested period (see “vested period” in division (A)
above) and if such work is discontinued for a period of one year, then the
permit authorizing such work shall immediately expire; however, expiration of
the permit shall not affect the provisions of §
152.058.
   (C)   The permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may, pursuant to divisions (A) or (B)
above, extend the date when a permit would otherwise expire (i.e., extend the
vested period) if said authority concludes that:
      (1)   The permit has not yet expired;
      (2)   The permit recipient has proceeded with due diligence and in good
faith; and
      (3)   Conditions have not changed so substantially as to warrant a new
application. Successive extensions may be granted for periods up to six months
upon the same findings. All such extensions may be granted without resort to
the formal processes and fees required for a new permit.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, a permit within the jurisdiction of the
Board of Commissioners or the Board of Adjustment is issued when such Board
votes to approve the application and issue the permit. A permit within the
jurisdiction of the Land Use Administrator is issued when the earlier of the
following takes place:
      (1)   A copy of the fully executed permit is delivered to the permit
recipient (delivery is accomplished when the permit is hand-delivered or mailed
to the permit applicant); or
      (2)   The Land Use Administrator notifies the permit applicant that the
application has been approved and that all that remains before a fully executed
permit can be delivered is for the applicant to take certain specified actions
(such as having the permit executed by the property owner so it can be recorded
if required).
   (E)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions in §§
152.170 through
152.182, this section shall be applicable to permits issued prior to the date
this section becomes effective.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.058 EFFECT OF PERMITS ON SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.
   (A)   Zoning, special use, conditional use, and sign permits authorize the
permittee to make use of land and structures in a particular way. Such permits
are transferable; however, as long as the land or structures or any portion
thereof covered under a permit continues to be used for the purposes for which
the permit was granted, then.
      (1)   No person (including successors or assigns of the person who
obtained the permit) may make use of the land or structures covered under such
permit for the purposes authorized in the permit except in accordance with all
the terms and requirements of that permit.
      (2)   The terms and requirements of the permit apply to and restrict the
use of land or structures covered under the permit, not only with respect to
all persons having any interest in the property at the time the permit was
obtained but also with respect to persons who subsequently obtain any interest
in all or part of the covered property and wish to use it for or in connection
with purposes other than those for which the permit was originally issued, so
long as the persons who subsequently obtain an interest in the property had
actual or record notice as provided in division (B) below of the existence of
the permit at the time they acquired their interest.
   (B)   Whenever a zoning, special use, or conditional use permit is issued to
authorize development (other than single-family or two-family residences) on a
tract of land in excess of one acre, nothing authorized by the permit may be
done until the record owner of the property signs a written acknowledgment that
the permit has been issued so that the permit may be recorded in the county’s
Register of Deeds and indexed under the record owner’s name as grantor.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.059 AMENDMENTS TO AND MODIFICATIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Insignificant deviations from a permit (including approved plans)
issued by the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Adjustment, or the Land Use
Administrator are permissible, and the Land Use Administrator may authorize
such insignificant deviations. A deviation is insignificant if it has no
discernible impact on neighboring properties, the general public, or those
intended to occupy or use the proposed development.
   (B)   (1)   Minor design modifications or changes to a permit (including
approved plans) are permissible with the approval of the permit-issuing
authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or the Board of
Commissioners). Such permission may be obtained without a formal application,
public hearing, or payment of any additional fee.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, minor design modifications or changes
are those that have no substantial impact on neighboring properties, the
general public, or those intended to occupy or use the proposed development.
   (C)   (1)   All other requests for changes to an approved a permit
(including approved plans) will be processed as new applications.
      (2)   If such requests are required to be acted upon by the Board of
Commissioners or Board of Adjustment, then new conditions may be imposed in
accordance with §
152.054, but the applicant retains the right to reject such additional
conditions by withdrawing the request for an amendment and may then proceed in
accordance with the previously issued permit.
   (D)   The Land Use Administrator shall determine whether amendments to and
modifications of permits fall within the categories set forth above in
divisions (A), (B), and (C) above.
   (E)   A developer requesting approval of changes to a permit shall submit a
written request for such approval to the Land Use Administrator, and that
request shall identify said changes. Approval of all changes must be provided
in writing.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.060 RECONSIDERATION OF BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Commissioners disapproves a conditional use
permit application, or the Board of Adjustment disapproves an application for a
special use permit or a variance on any basis other than the failure of the
applicant to submit a complete application, such action may not be reconsidered
by the respective Board at a later time unless the applicant clearly
demonstrates that:
      (1)   Circumstances affecting the property that is the subject of the
application have substantially changed; or
      (2)   New information is available that could not, with reasonable
diligence, have been previously presented. A request to be heard on this basis
must be filed with the Land Use Administrator within the time period for an
appeal to superior court (see §
152.159); however, such a request does not extend the period within which an
appeal must be taken.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the Board of Commissioners or
Board of Adjustment may at any time consider a new application affecting the
same property as an application previously denied. A new application is one
that differs in some substantial way from the one previously considered.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.061 APPLICATIONS TO BE PROCESSED EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   Recognizing that inordinate delays in acting upon appeals or applications
may impose unnecessary costs on the appellant or applicant, the town shall make
every reasonable effort to process appeals and permit applications as
expeditiously as possible, consistent with the need to ensure that all
development conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.062 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREAS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The recipient (or his, her, or their successor) of any zoning permit,
special use permit, conditional use permit, or sign permit shall be responsible
for maintaining all common areas, improvements, or facilities required by this
chapter (or required by any permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter) except those common areas, improvements, or facilities to which
an offer of dedication to the public has been accepted by the appropriate
public authority.
   (B)   As illustrations, and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, this means that private roads and parking areas, water and sewer
lines, and recreational facilities must be properly maintained so that the same
can be used in the manner intended.
   (C)   Required vegetation and trees used for screening, landscaping, or
shading must be replaced if the same die or are destroyed.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
INFORMATION REQUIRED WITH APPLICATIONS
§ 152.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   As provided in §
152.043, it is presumed that all of the information listed in this subchapter
must be submitted with an application for a zoning, sign, special use, or
conditional use permit to enable the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Commissioners, or Board of Adjustment) to determine
whether the development, if completed as proposed, will comply with all the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   As set forth in §
152.116, applications for variances are subject to the same provisions;
however, the permit-issuing authority may require more information, or accept
as sufficient less information according to the circumstances of the particular
case. A developer who believes information presumptively required by this
subchapter is unnecessary shall contact the planning staff for an
interpretation.
   (B)   (1)   As also provided in §
152.043, the Land Use Administrator shall develop application processes,
including standard forms, to simplify and expedite applications for simple
developments that do not require the full range of information called for in
this subchapter.
      (2)   In particular, developers seeking only permission to construct
single-family or two-family residences, or to construct new or modify existing
signs, should contact the Land Use Administrator for standard forms.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.076 WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   Every applicant for a variance or a zoning, sign, special use, or
conditional use permit shall complete a written application containing at least
the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   If the applicant is not the owner of the property in question:
      (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner; and
      (2)   The legal relationship of the applicant to the owner that entitles
the applicant to make application.
   (C)   The date of the application;
   (D)   Identification of the particular permit sought;
   (E)   A succinct statement of the nature of the development proposed under
the permit or the nature of the variance;
   (F)   Identification of the property in question by street, address, and tax
map reference;
   (G)   The zoning district within which the property lies;
   (H)   The number of square feet in the lot where the development is to take
place;
   (I)   The gross floor area of all existing or proposed buildings located on
the lot where the development is to take place; and
   (J)   If the proposed development is a two-family or multifamily residential
development or an architecturally integrated subdivision, the number of one-,
two-, three-, or four-bedroom dwelling units proposed for construction.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.077 DEVELOPMENT SITE PLANS.
   Subject to §
152.075, every application for a variance or a zoning, sign, special use or
conditional use permit shall contain plans that locate the development site and
graphically demonstrate existing and proposed natural, human-made, and legal
features on and near the site in question, all in conformity with §§
152.078 through
152.080.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.078 GRAPHIC MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR PLANS.
   (A)   The plans shall include a location map that shows the location of the
project in the broad context of the town jurisdiction. This location map may be
drawn on the development site plans or it may be furnished separately using
reduced copies of maps of the town’s planning jurisdiction available at the
Planning and Inspections Department.
   (B)   (1)   Development site plans shall be drawn to scale, using such scale
that all features required to be shown on the plans are readily discernible.
      (2)   Very large developments may require that plans shown the
development in sections to accomplish this objective without resort to plans
that are so large as to be cumbersome, or the objective may be accomplished by
using different plans or plans drawn to different scales to illustrate
different features.
      (3)   In all cases, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator,
Board of Adjustment, and Board of Commissioners) shall make the final
determination whether the plans submitted are drawn to the appropriate scale,
but the applicant for a conditional or special use permit may rely in the first
instance on the recommendations of the Land Use Administration.
   (C)   Development site plans should show on the first page the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the applicant;
      (2)   Name of development (if any);
      (3)   North arrow;
      (4)   Legend; and
      (5)   Scale.
   (D)   All of the features required to be shown on plans by §§
152.079 and
152.080 may be included on one set of plans, so long as the features are
distinctly discernible.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.079 EXISTING NATURAL, HUMAN-MADE, AND LEGAL FEATURES.
   (A)   (1)   Development site plans shall show all existing natural, human-
made, and legal features on the lot where the development is to take place,
including but not limited to those listed below.
      (2)   In addition, the plans shall also show those features that are
located within 50 feet in any direction of the lot where the development is to
take place, and shall specify (by reference to the table of permissible uses or
otherwise) the use made of adjoining properties.
   (B)   Existing natural features:
      (1)   Tree line of wooded areas;
      (2)   Individual trees 18 inches in diameter or more, identified by
common or scientific name;
      (3)   Orchards or other agricultural groves by common or scientific name;
      (4)   Streams, ponds, drainage ditches, swamps, boundaries of floodways
and floodplains;
      (5)   If the proposed development is a subdivision of more than 50 lots
or if more than five acres of land are to be developed, then base flood
elevation data (§§
152.405 through 153.413); and
      (6)   Contour lines (shown as dotted lines) with no larger than ten-feet
contour intervals (as indicated in §
152.080(B)(17) proposed contour lines shall be shown as solid lines).
   (C)   Existing human-made features:
      (1)   Vehicle accommodation areas (including parking areas, loading areas
and circulation areas, see §
152.466), all designated by surface material and showing the layout of existing
parking spaces and direction of travel lanes, aisles, or driveways;
      (2)   Streets, private roads, sidewalks, and other walkways, all
designated by surface material;
      (3)   Curbs and gutters, curb inlets and curb cuts, and drainage grates;
      (4)   Other stormwater or drainage facilities, including manholes, pipes,
and drainage ditches;
      (5)   Underground utility lines, including water, sewer, electric power,
telephone, gas, and cable television;
      (6)   Above ground utility lines and other utility facilities;
      (7)   Fire hydrants;
      (8)   Buildings, structures and signs (including dimensions of each);
      (9)   Location of exterior light fixtures; and
      (10)   Location of dumpsters.
   (D)   Existing legal features:
      (1)   The zoning of the property, including zoning district lines where
applicable;
      (2)   Property liens (with dimensions identified);
      (3)   Street right-of-way lines and future thoroughfare plans, if known;
and
      (4)   Utility or other easement lines.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.080 PROPOSED CHANGES IN EXISTING FEATURES OR NEW FEATURES.
   (A)   Development site plans shall show proposed changes in §
152.079(B)(2), (C)(3), and (D).
   (B)   Development site plans shall also show proposed new legal features
(especially new property lines, street right-of-way lines, and utility and
other easements), as well as proposed human-made features, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   The number of square feet in every lot created by a new
subdivision;
      (2)   Lot dimensions, including lot widths, measured in accordance with §
152.282;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and freestanding signs
on the lot, as well as the distances all buildings and freestanding signs are
set back from property lines, streets or street right-of-way lines (see §
152.283);
      (4)   Principal side(s) building elevations for typical units of new
buildings or exterior remodeling of existing buildings, showing building
heights (see §
152.285) and proposed wall sign or window sign area;
      (5)   The location and dimensions of all recreational areas provided in
accordance with §§
152.300 through
152.306, with each area designated as to the type of use;
      (6)   Areas intended to remain as usable open space. The plans shall
clearly indicate whether such open space areas are intended to be offered for
dedication to public use or to remain privately owned;
      (7)   Streets, labeled by classification (see §
152.320) and street name showing whether curb and gutter or shoulders and
swales are to be provided and indicating street paving widths. Private roads in
subdivisions shall also be shown and clearly labeled as such;
      (8)   Curbs and gutters, curb inlets and curb cuts, drainage grates;
      (9)   Other stormwater or drainage facilities, including manholes, pipes,
drainage ditches, retention ponds, and the like;
      (10)   Sidewalks and walkways, showing widths and surface material;
      (11)   Bridges;
      (12)   Outdoor illumination with lighting fixtures sufficiently
identified to demonstrate compliance with §
152.386;
      (13)   Underground utility lines, including water, sewer, electric power,
telephone, gas, cable television. Water and sewer pipe line signs shall be
labeled;
      (14)   Above ground utility lines and other facilities;
      (15)   Fire hydrants;
      (16)   Dumpsters;
      (17)   New contour lines resulting from earth movement (shown as solid
lines) with no larger than two-foot contour intervals (existing lines should be
shown as dotted lines);
      (18)   Scale drawings of all signs requiring permits pursuant to §§
152.430 through
152.446, together with an indication of the location and dimensions of all such
signs;
      (19)   Vehicle accommodation areas (including parking areas, loading
areas, and circulation areas, see §
152.466), all designated by surface material and showing the dimensions and
layout of proposed parking spaces and the dimensions and direction of travel of
lanes, aisles, and driveways; and
      (20)   Proposed plantings or construction of other devices to comply with
the screening requirements of §§
152.485 through
152.492, as well as proposed plantings of trees to comply with the shading
requirements of §§
152.493 through
152.497. Plans shall label shrubbery by common or scientific name, show the
distance between plants and indicate the height at the time of planting and
expected mature height and width. Plans shall label trees by common or
scientific name, show the circles of the mature crowns (major trees shall be
drawn at diameter equals 30 feet; dwarf or decorative trees shall be drawn at
their actual mature crown), and indicate the height at the time of planting.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.081 DOCUMENTS AND WRITTEN INFORMATION IN ADDITION TO PLANS.
   (A)   In addition to the written application and the plans, whenever the
nature of the proposed development makes information or documents such as the
following relevant, such documents or information shall be provided.
   (B)   The following is a representative list of the types of information or
documents that may be requested:
      (1)   Documentation confirming that the applicant has a legally
sufficient interest in the property proposed for development to use it in the
manner requested, or is the duly appointed agent of such person;
      (2)   Certifications from the appropriate agencies that proposed utility
systems are or will be adequate to handle the proposed development, as set
forth in §§
152.380 through
152.394, and that all necessary easements have been provided;
      (3)   Detailed description of play apparatus or other recreational
facilities to be provided in miniparks;
      (4)   Legal documentation establishing homeowners’ associations or other
legal entities responsible for control over required common areas and
facilities;
      (5)   Bonds, letters of credit, or other surety devices;
      (6)   Stamped envelopes containing the names and addresses of all those
to whom notice of a public hearing must be sent to comply with §§
152.046 or
152.136;
      (7)   Complete documentation justifying any requested deviation from
specific requirements established by this subchapter as presumptively
satisfying design standards;
      (8)   Written evidence of permission to use satellite parking spaces
under the control of a person other than the developer when such spaces are
allowed pursuant to §§
152.468 and
152.469;
      (9)   Written evidence of good faith efforts to acquire satellite parking
under the circumstances set forth in §§
152.468 and
152.469;
      (10)   Verification that 4.000 classification uses will meet the
performance standards set forth in §§
152.235 through
152.247. Such verification shall be made by a licensed engineer or other
qualified expert unless it is utterly apparent from the nature of the proposed
development that such expert verification is unnecessary;
      (11)   Time schedules for the completion of phases in staged development,
as required by §
152.056; and
      (12)   The environmental impact of a development, including its effect on
historically significant or ecologically fragile or important areas and its
impact on pedestrian or traffic safety or congestion;
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.082 NUMBER OF COPIES OF PLANS AND DOCUMENTS.
   With respect to all plans and other documents required by this subchapter,
the developer shall submit the number of copies that the Administrator deems
necessary to expedite the review process and to provide necessary permanent
records.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.095 REGULATION OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   Major subdivisions are subject to a two-step approval process:
   (A)   Physical improvements to the land to be subdivided are authorized by a
conditional use permit as provided in §§
152.040 through
152.062; and
   (B)   The sales of lots are permitted after final plat approval as provided
in §
152.096. Minor subdivisions only require a one-step approval process which is
final plat approval (in accordance with §
152.097).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 NO SUBDIVISION WITHOUT PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   No person may subdivide his, her, or their land except in
accordance with all of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   In particular, no person may subdivide his, her, or their land
unless and until a final plat of the subdivision has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of §§
152.097 or
152.098 and recorded at the county’s Register of Deeds.
   (B)   The county’s Register of Deeds may not record a plat of any
subdivision within the town’s planning jurisdiction unless the plat has been
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.097 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The Land Use Administrator shall approve or disapprove minor
subdivision final plats in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant for a major subdivision plat approval shall submit
to the Land Use Administrator a final plat, meeting the standards of G.S. § 47-
30 and drawn in waterproof ink on a sheet made of material that will be
acceptable to the county’s Register of Deeds office for recording purposes.
      (2)   If or when more than one sheet is necessary to show the entire
subdivision, then all such sheets shall be made the same size, and each such
sheet shall show appropriate match marks with appropriate references to the
other sheets.
      (3)   The scale of the plat shall be at one inch equal not more than 100
feet.
      (4)   The applicant shall also submit five prints of the plat.
   (C)   All applicants for a minor subdivision approval shall submit to the
Land Use Administrator a copy of a plat conforming to the requirements set
forth in §
152.098(B) and (C) (as well as two prints of such plat) except that a minor
subdivision plat shall contain the following certificates in lieu of those
required in §
152.099:
      (1)   Certificate of ownership:
 
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property described herein, which
property is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the Town of
Pinebluff, and that I freely adopt this plan of subdivision.
 
_________________________            _____________________________
   Date                           Owner   
 
      (2)   Certificate of approval:
 
   I hereby certify that the minor subdivision shown on this plat does not
involve the creation of new public streets or any change in existing public
streets, and that the subdivision shown is in all respects in compliance with
the Pinebluff Unified Development Ordinance, subject to its being recorded in
the Moore County Register of Deeds within 60 days of the date below.
 
___________________________      _____________________________
   Date                        Land Use Administrator
 
      (3)   A certificate of survey and accuracy, in the form stated in §
152.099;
      (4)   Certificate of the approval of water and sewer systems:
 
   I hereby certify that the water supplies and wastewater systems installed or
proposed for installation in this subdivision must meet the requirements of the
North Carolina Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources, the Moore
County Health Department, or any official agency having jurisdiction. It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner(s) to verify that installed or proposed
systems meet applicable regulatory requirements.
 
___________________________      _____________________________
   Date                  Environmental Health Supervisor
                     (or designated authorized person)
 
      (5)   Certification of private road minor subdivision/extraterritorial
jurisdiction:
 
   I hereby certify that the road shown on this plat is a private road and the
Town of Pinebluff assumes no responsibility for maintenance. As a subdivider, I
agree to disclose to lot purchasers a statement outlining maintenance
responsibilities for this road that will satisfy the town’s emergency access
requirement.
 
___________________________      _____________________________
   Date                     Owner/Agent
 
   (D)   The Land Use Administrator shall take expeditious action on an
application for minor subdivision plat approval as provided in §
152.061; however, either the Land Use Administrator or the applicant may at any
time refer the application to the major subdivision approval process.
   (E)   Not more than a total of three lots may be created out of one tract
using the minor subdivision plat approval process within a three-year period.
   (F)   Subject to division (D) above, the Land Use Administrator shall
approve the proposed subdivision unless the subdivision is not a minor
subdivision as defined in §
152.008 or the application or the proposed subdivision fails to comply with
division (E) above or any other applicable requirement of this chapter. Appeals
of the Land Use Administrator’s decision may be made only to the county’s
Superior Court.
   (G)   Appeals of the denial of a subdivision plat will be made to the
county’s Superior Court.
   (H)   Approval of any plat is contingent upon the plat being recorded within
60 days after the date the certificate of approval is signed by the Land Use
Administrator or his, her, or their designee.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.098 MAJOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The Land Use Administrator shall approve or disapprove major
subdivision final plats. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and pursuant to §§
152.040 through
152.062, at the time a conditional use permit or special use permit was issued
for a subdivision and if the permit-issuing authority (Board of Adjustment,
Board of Commissioners, or Land Use Administrator) requested a review of the
final plat, then the permit-issuing authority shall approve or disapprove the
major subdivision final plat.
   (B)   (1)   An applicant for a major subdivision plat approval shall submit
to the Land Use Administrator a final plat, drawn in waterproof ink on a sheet
made of material that will be acceptable to the county’s Register of Deeds
office for recording purposes.
      (2)   If or when more than one sheet is necessary to show the entire
subdivision, then all such sheets shall be made the same size, and each such
sheet shall show appropriate match marks with appropriate references to the
other sheets.
      (3)   The scale of the plat shall be at one inch equals not more than 100
feet.
      (4)   The applicant shall also submit five prints of the plat.
   (C)   In addition to the appropriate endorsements, as provided in §
152.099, the final plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The subdivision’s name (which shall not duplicate the name of any
existing subdivision as recorded in the county’s Register of Deeds);
      (2)   The name of the subdivision owner or owners;
      (3)   The township, county, and state where the subdivision is located;
      (4)   The name of the surveyor and his, her, or their registration number
as well as the date of survey;
      (5)   The scale according to which the plat is drawn in feet per inch or
scale ratio in words or figures and bar graph; and
      (6)   All of the additional information required by G.S. §§ 47-30 and
47F-2-101.
   (D)   Land Use Administrator shall approve the proposed plat unless it is
found that the plat (or the proposed subdivision) fails to comply with one or
more of the requirements of this chapter, or that the final plat differs
substantially from the plans and specifications approved in conjunction with
the conditional use permit that authorized the development of the subdivision.
   (E)   (1)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Land Use Administrator,
then the applicant shall be furnished with a written statement describing the
reasons for the disapproval.
      (2)   The applicant may appeal the decision pursuant to §
152.115.
   (F)   Approval of a final plat is contingent upon the plat being recorded
within 60 days after the approval certificate is signed by the Land Use
Administrator or his, her, or their designee.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.099 ENDORSEMENTS ON MAJOR SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   All major subdivision plats shall contain the endorsements listed
below.
   (B)   Also, the endorsements listed below in division (B)(4) shall appear on
plats of all major subdivisions located outside the corporate limits of the
town but within the planning jurisdiction:
      (1)   Certificate of approval:
 
   I hereby certify that all streets shown on this plat are within the Town of
Pinebluff’s planning jurisdiction, all streets and other improvements shown on
this plat have been installed or completed or that their installation or
completion (within 12 months after the date below) has been assured by the
posting of a performance bond, or other sufficient surety, and that the
subdivision shown on this plat is in all respects in compliance with the
Pinebluff Code, and therefore this plat has been approved by the Pinebluff Land
Use Administrator subject to its being recorded in the Moore County Register of
Deeds within 60 days of the date below.
 
____________________________      ___________________________________
   Date                        Land Use Administrator
 
      (2)   Certificate of ownership and dedication:
 
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property described hereon, which
property is located within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the Town of
Pinebluff, that I hereby freely adopt this plan of subdivision and dedicate to
public use all areas shown on this plat as streets, alleys, walks, parks, open
space, and easements, except those specifically indicated as private and that I
will maintain all such areas until the offer of dedication is accepted by the
appropriate public authority. All property shown on this plat as dedicated for a
public use shall be deemed to be dedicated for any other public use authorized by
law when such other use is approved by the Pinebluff Board of Commissioners in the
public interest.
 
_____________________________      _________________________________
Date                           Owner
 
_____________________________
(Notarized)
 
      (3)   Certificate of survey and accuracy:
 
   I hereby certify: that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an
actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made under my supervision) (a deed description
recorded in Book ___, Page___ of the Moore County Registry) (other); that the error of
closure as calculated by latitudes and departures is 1: _____; that the boundaries not
surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from information found in Book ___, Page___; and
that this map was prepared in accordance with __________[statutory citation]. Witness my
original signature, registration number and seal this the ___day of ______, 20__.
 
Seal/Stamp   _______________________   (Notarized)   _______________________
         Registered Land Surveyor               Registration Number
 
      (4)   Division of Highways District Engineer certificate:
 
   I hereby certify that the public streets shown on this plat have been
completed, or that a performance bond or other sufficient surety has been
posted to guarantee their completion, in accordance with at least the minimum
specifications and standards of the State Department of Transportation for
acceptance of subdivision streets on the state highway system for maintenance.
 
___________________________________
District Engineer
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.100 PLAT APPROVAL NOT ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION OFFERS.
   Approval of a plat does not constitute acceptance by the town of an offer of
dedication of any street(s), sidewalk(s), park(s), or other public facility(s)
shown on a plat; however, the town may accept any such offer of dedication by
resolution of the Board of Commissioners or by actually exercising control over
and maintaining such facilities.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.101 PROTECTION AGAINST DEFECTS.
   (A)   If and whenever (pursuant to § 152.055) occupancy, use, or sale is
allowed before the completion of all facilities or improvements intended for
dedication, then the performance bond or the surety that is posted pursuant to
§
152.055 shall guarantee that any defects in such improvements or facilities
(that appear within one year after the dedication of such facilities or
improvements) shall be corrected by the developer.
   (B)   Whenever any public facilities or improvements intended for dedication
are installed before occupancy, use, or sale is authorized, then the developer
shall post a performance bond or other sufficient surety to guarantee that he,
she, or they will correct all defects in such facilities or improvements that
occur within one year after the offer of dedication of such facilities or
improvements is accepted.
   (C)   (1)   An architect or engineer retained by the developer shall certify
to the town that all facilities and improvements to be dedicated to the town
have been constructed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   This certification shall be a condition precedent to acceptance by
the town of the offer of dedication of such facilities or improvements.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, the term DEFECTS refers to any condition
in publicly dedicated facilities or improvements that requires the town to make
repairs in such facilities over and above the normal amount of required
maintenance. If such defects appear, then the guaranty may be enforced
regardless of whether the facilities or improvements were constructed in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.102 MAINTENANCE OF DEDICATED AREAS UNTIL ACCEPTANCE.
   As provided in §
152.061, all facilities and improvements with respect to which the owner makes
an offer of dedication to public use shall be maintained by the owner until
such offer of dedication is accepted by the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
APPEALS, VARIANCES, SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS, AND INTERPRETATIONS
§ 152.115 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal conditions.
      (1)   Any aggrieved person may appeal any final order or decision of the
Land Use Administrator or other person charged with the enforcement of this
chapter. An appeal is taken by filling a written notice of appeal with the Town
Clerk.
      (2)   Persons who may appeal are:
         (a)   The owner of the property;
         (b)   The party who sough the decision;
         (c)   Any person who has standing as described in division (F) below;
and/or
         (d)   The town.
      (3)   The written notice of appeal shall specify the grounds of the
appeal. A notice of appeal shall be considered filed with the Land Use
Administrator and the Board of Adjustment when delivered to the Town Clerk, and
the date and time of filing shall be entered on the notice by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Notice of appeal; time to appeal.
      (1)   The Administrator or official who made the decision shall give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the decision
and to the party who sought the decision; if different from the owner.
      (2)   The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
      (3)   An appeal must be taken by the owner within 30 days after the date
of the receipt of the final written decision or order appealed from.
      (4)   The party who sought the decision (if not the owner) and any other
person with standing to appeal under division (F) below must take their appeal
within 30 days of actual or constructive notice of the decision.
      (5)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign containing
the words “Zoning Decision,” “Appeal” or “Subdivision Decision” in letters at
least six inches high and identifying the means to contact an official for
information about the decision is prominently posted on the property that is
the subject of the decision, provided the sign remains on the property for at
least ten days.
      (6)   Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice.
Additional public notice requirements for all quasi-judicial hearings are found
in §
152.136.
   (C)   Duties of Administrator. Whenever an appeal is filed, the
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment, the person
making the appeal (appellant) and the owner of the property if the owner is not
the appellant, all the documents and exhibits constituting the record relating
to the action appealed from.
   (D)   Stays.
      (1)   An appeal stays all actions by the Land Use Administrator seeking
enforcement of or compliance with the order or decision appealed from, unless
the Land Use Administrator certifies to the Board of Adjustment that (because
of facts stated in the certificate) a stay would, in his, her, or their
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order of
the Board of Adjustment or a court, issued on application of the party seeking
the stay, for due cause shown, after notice to the Land Use Administrator.
   (E)   Changes.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm (wholly or partly),
or may modify the appealed order, requirement, or decision, and shall make any
order, requirement, decision, or determination that, in its opinion, ought to
be rendered.
      (2)   To this end, the Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (F)   Other persons with standing to appeal.
      (1)   Any person meeting any of the following criteria:
         (a)   Has an ownership interest in the property that is the subject of
the decision being appealed, a leasehold interest in the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed, or an interest created by easement,
restriction, or covenant in the property that is the subject of the decision
being appealed;
         (b)   Has an option or contract to purchase that is the subject of the
decision being appealed; or
         (c)   Was an applicant before the decision-making board whose decision
is being appealed.
      (2)   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result of
the decision being appealed;
      (3)   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners or
lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have standing as an
individual to challenge the decision being appealed, and the association was
not created in response to the particular development or issue that is the
subject of the appeal; and/or
      (4)   The town, when Board of Commissioners believes that the BOA
improperly granted a variance from or made a decision that is otherwise
inconsistent with the proper interpretation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.116 VARIANCES.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Land Use Administrator
in the Planning Department. Applications shall be handled in the same manner as
applications for special use permits, i.e., in conformity with the provisions
of §§
152.040 through
152.062 and
152.095 through
152.102.
   (B)   A variance may be granted the Board of Adjustment if it concludes that
unnecessary hardships for the applicant would result from carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter upon a showing of all of the following.
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
this chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis from
granting a variance.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of this chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
      (5)   The variance will neither result in the extension of a
nonconforming situation in violation of §§
152.170 through
152.182 nor authorize the initiation of a nonconforming use of land.
   (C)   In granting variances, the Board of Adjustment may impose such
reasonable conditions to ensure that the use of the property will be as
compatible as practicable with the surrounding properties.
   (D)   A variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for a specified
duration.
   (E)   The nature of the variance and any attached conditions shall be
entered on the face of the zoning permit, or in the alternative, the zoning
permit may simply note the issuance of the variance and refer to the written
record of the variance for further information. All such conditions are
enforceable in the same manner as any other applicable requirement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.117 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a special exception permit shall be submitted to
the Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Land Use
Administrator.
   (B)   Except for the provisions in §§
152.116 (B), and
152.121(B) and (C), all of the provisions of this subchapter that are
applicable to the processing of variance applications shall also apply to
requests for special exception permits.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may issue a special exception permit if, in
addition to any other findings required by this section, that issuance of the
permit will not:
      (1)   Create a threat to the public safety; or
      (2)   Adversely affect the value of adjoining or neighboring properties.
If the applicant presents a petition signed by all of the property owners
entitled to receive notice of the hearing for the application (pursuant to §
152.136) and if said petition states that such property owners believe that
their property values will not be adversely affected by the proposed use, then
the petition shall be sufficient evidence from which the Board of Adjustment
may (but shall not be required to) make its finding. The Board of Adjustment
may also make its finding based on other competent evidence.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment may issue a special exception permit to allow
a reduction of up to 50% in the required distances that buildings must be set
back from lot boundary lines (see §
152.283) provided that:
      (1)   The reduction may be permitted only for buildings on lots used for
conforming residential purposes in residential districts where the building in
question has existed for at least three years prior to the application for the
special exception permit;
      (2)   The reduction may not in any case:
         (a)   Allow a building to be located closer to a lot boundary line
than a distance equal to one-half of the minimum building separation
requirement established by the State Building Code; or
         (b)   Allow a building to be located in such proximity to a pre-
existing building so as to violate the minimum building separation requirement
of the State Building Code.
      (3)   The reductions allowed under this division (D) are only for
setbacks from lot boundary lines, and not for setbacks from street right-of-way
lines.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may issue a special exception permit to
authorize a structure to encroach upon a setback required under §
152.283 if the Board finds that:
      (1)   The proposed encroachment results from an addition to, or an
extension of, an existing residential structure in a residential district that
already is nonconforming with respect to the requirements of §
152.283; and
      (2)   The proposed addition or extension will not encroach upon any
required front, rear, or side yard to a greater extent than the existing
structure on that lot.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.118 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is authorized to interpret the zoning map and
to render findings in regards to disputed questions of lot lines, district
boundary lines, and/or similar questions. If such questions arise in the
context of an appeal from a decision of the Land Use Administrator, they such
questions shall be handled as provided in §
152.115.
   (B)   An application for a map interpretation shall be submitted to the
Board of Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Land Use
Administrator in the Planning Department. The application shall contain
sufficient information to enable the Board to make the necessary
interpretation.
   (C)   If an uncertainty exists regarding the boundaries of districts as
shown on the official zoning map, then the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
alleys, streets, highways, streams, or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, town
limits, or extraterritorial boundary lines, shall be construed as following
such lines, limits, or boundaries.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines. If a shoreline(s) has changed, then the boundary shall
be construed as following such shoreline(s).
      (4)   If a district boundary divides a lot or if distances are not
specifically indicated on the official zoning maps, then the boundary shall be
determined by measurement that utilizes the scale on the official zoning map.
      (5)   If any street or alley is hereafter officially vacated or
abandoned, than the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting property
shall apply to that portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of
such vacation or abandonment.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.119 REQUESTS TO BE HEARD EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   As provided in §
152.061, the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide all appeals, variance
requests, and requests for interpretations as expeditiously as possible. Also,
the Board of Adjustment shall follow regularly established agenda procedures,
provide notices in accordance with §§
152.135 through
152.040, and obtain necessary information to make sound decisions.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.120 BOARD ACTION REGARDING APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   With respect to appeals, a motion to reverse, affirm, or modify an
order, requirement, decision, or determination shall include, insofar as
practicable, a statement describing the specific reasons or findings of facts
that support the motion. If a motion to reverse or modify is not made or fails
to receive the simple majority vote necessary for adoption, then the Board of
Adjustment shall order a motion to uphold the original decision. For a variance
request only, this motion is adopted as the Board of Adjustment’s decision
provided that said motion is supported by more than one-fifth of the Board of
Adjustment’s membership, excluding vacant seats. If for any other quasi-
judicial matter, this motion is adopted as the Board’s decision if supported by
more than one-half of the Board’s membership, excluding vacant seats.
   (B)   Before granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment must take a
separate vote, and vote affirmatively (by a four-fifths majority) on each of
the six required findings that are stated in §
152.116. Insofar as practicable, a motion to make an affirmative finding on
each of these six requirements shall include a statement of the specific
reasons or findings of fact regarding each requirement.
   (C)   A motion to deny a variance may be made on the basis that any one or
more of the requirements in §
152.116 are not satisfied, or that the variance application is incomplete.
Insofar as practicable, such a motion shall include a statement of the specific
reasons or findings of fact. Also, such a motion is adopted as the Board’s
decision if supported by more than one-fifth of the Board’s membership
(excluding vacant seats).
   (D)   Before granting a special exception permit, the Board of Adjustment
shall vote affirmatively on each of the requirements under §
152.117. A motion to deny a special exception may be made on the basis that any
one or more of the requirements under §
152.117 are not satisfied, or that the application is incomplete. Insofar as
practicable, such a motion shall include a statement of the specific reasons or
findings of fact.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
HEARING PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS
§ 152.135 HEARING REQUIRED FOR APPEALS AND APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Before making a decision on an appeal, an application for a variance,
special exception, special use permit, or conditional use permit, or a petition
from the planning staff to revoke a special use permit or conditional use
permit, the Board of Adjustment or the Board of Commissioners shall hold a
hearing.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, the hearing shall be open to the
public. All persons interested in the outcome of the appeal or application
shall be given an opportunity to present evidence and arguments, and to ask
questions of persons who testify.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioners may place reasonable
and equitable limitations on the presentation of evidence, arguments, and
cross-examination of witnesses so that the matter at issue may be heard and
decided without undue delay.
   (D)   The official who made the decision appealed from (usually the Land Use
Administrator) shall be present at the hearing as a witness. The appellant
shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in the notice of appeal.
If any party of the town would be unduly prejudiced by the presentation of
matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall continue the
hearing.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioners may continue the
hearing until a subsequent meeting, and may keep the hearing open to accept
additional information to the time that a final decision is rendered. A notice
of a continued hearing does not need to be published unless a period of six
weeks, or more, elapses between hearing dates.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.136 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Land Use Administrator shall provide notice of any hearing required by
§§
152.020,
152.022,
152.048,
152.115 through
152.117, and
152.135 as follows.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of all quasi-judicial hearings conducted pursuant to this
chapter shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or
request is the subject of the hearing to:
         (a)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearings;
         (b)   The owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land
that is the subject of the hearing; and
         (c)   Any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by this
chapter.
      (2)   In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the town may rely on
the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice.
      (3)   The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not
more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing.
      (4)   Within that same time period, the town shall also prominently post
a notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an
adjacent street or highway right-of-way.
   (B)   The notice required by this section shall state the date, time, and
place of the hearing shall reasonably identify the lot that is the subject of
the application or appeal, and shall give a brief description of the action
requested or proposed.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.137 EVIDENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this section apply to all hearings for which a
notice is required by §
152.135.
   (B)   All persons who intend to submit evidence other than only oral
arguments, shall be sworn.
   (C)   All findings and conclusions necessary for the issuance or denial of a
requested permit or appeal (i.e., crucial findings) shall be based upon
material, substantial, and competent evidence (evidence admissible in a court
of law).
   (D)   The term “competent evidence,” as used in this section, shall not
include the opinion testimony of lay witnesses as to any of the following:
      (1)   The use of property in a particular way would affect the value of
other property;
      (2)   The increase in vehicular traffic resulting from a proposed
development would pose a danger to the public safety; and/or
      (3)   Matters about which only expert testimony would generally be
admissible under the rules of evidence.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.138 MODIFICATION OF APPLICATION AT HEARING.
   (A)   In response to questions or comments by persons appearing at the
hearing or to suggestions or recommendations by the Board of Commissioners or
Board of Adjustment, the applicant may agree to modify the application. Such
modifications include revisions to the submitted plans and specifications.
   (B)   Unless such modifications are so substantial or extensive that the
Board of Commissioners (BOC) or Board of Adjustment (BOA) cannot reasonably be
expected to perceive the nature and impact of the proposed changes without
analyzing revised plans, the BOC or BOA may approve the application with the
stipulation that the permit will not be issued until plans reflecting the
agreed upon changes are submitted to the planning staff.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.139 RECORD.
   (A)   A tape recording shall be made of all hearings required by §
152.135, and such recordings shall be kept for at least two years. Accurate
minutes shall also be kept of all such proceedings. In addition, a transcript
of the hearing need not be made.
   (B)   Whenever practicable, all documentary evidence as well as all other
types of physical evidence presented at a hearing shall be made a part of the
record of the proceedings, and shall be kept by the town for at least two
years.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.140 WRITTEN DECISION.
   (A)   Any decision made by the Board of Adjustment or Board of Commissioners
regarding an appeal, variance, issuance, or revocation of a conditional use
permit, or a special use permit shall be reduced to writing, and shall be
served upon the applicant or appellant and to all other persons who made a
written request for a copy.
   (B)   In addition to a statement of the ultimate disposition of a case, and
any other information deemed appropriate, the BOA’s or BOC’s written decision
shall state the findings and conclusions, as well as supporting reasons or
facts, whenever this chapter requires the same as a prerequisite to taking
action.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.141 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   When an appeal of the Administrator’s decision is taken to the Board
of Adjustment in accordance with §
152.115, the Administrator shall have the initial burden of presenting to the
Board sufficient evidence and argument to justify the order or decision
appealed from. The burden of presenting evidence and argument to the contrary
then shifts to the appellant, who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
   (B)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of
Adjustment to reach the conclusions set forth in §
152.116 as well as the burden of persuasion on those issues remains with the
applicant seeking the variance.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW
§ 152.155 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Land Use Administrator receives a written, signed complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter, he, she, or they shall investigate the
complaint, take whatever action is warranted, and inform the complainant in
writing what actions have been or will be taken.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.156 PERSONS LIABLE.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or part thereof, and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation, and may
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.157 PROCEDURES UPON DISCOVERY OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If the Land Use Administrator finds that any provision of this
chapter is being violated, then he, she, or they shall send a written notice to
the person responsible for such violation.
      (2)   The written notice shall indicate the nature of the violation, and
shall order the action necessary to correct the violation. Additional written
notices may be sent at the Land Use Administrator’s discretion.
   (B)   If a violation(s) is not corrected, then the final written notice (the
initial written notice may be the final notice) shall state the Land Use
Administrator’s action(s). Also, the final written notice shall state that the
Land Use Administrator’s decision (or order) may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment, in accordance with §
152.115.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the Land Use Administrator may seek
enforcement without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or
remedies authorized in §
152.999.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.158 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   If a permit recipient fails to develop or maintain the property in
accordance with the submitted plans, or fails to abide by the requirements of
this chapter or of any additional requirements lawfully imposed by the permit-
issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of
Commissioners), then in accordance with the provisions of this section, a
zoning, sign, special use, or conditional use permit may be revoked by the
permit-issuing authority.
   (B)   Before a conditional use or special use permit may be revoked, all of
the notice, hearing, and other requirements of §§
152.135 through
152.140 shall be fully exercised. The notice shall inform the permit recipient
of the alleged grounds for the revocation.
      (1)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to authorize the
permit-issuing authority to conclude that a permit should be revoked for any of
the reasons set forth in division (A) above shall be upon the party advocating
that position. The burden of persuasion shall also be upon that party.
      (2)   A motion to revoke a permit shall include, insofar as practicable,
a statement of the specific reasons or finding of fact that support the motion.
   (C)   Before a zoning or sign permit may be revoked, the Land Use
Administrator shall give the permit recipient ten days notice of intent to
revoke the permit, inform the recipient of the alleged reasons for the
revocation, and inform the recipient of his, her, or their right to obtain an
informal hearing on the allegations. If the permit is revoked, then the Land
Use Administrator shall provide a written statement of the decision and the
reasons to the permit recipient.
   (D)   No person may continue to make use of land or buildings in the manner
authorized by any zoning, sign, special use, or conditional use permit after
such permit has been revoked in accordance with this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.159 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board of Commissioners granting or denying a
conditional use permit, and every final decision of the Board of Adjustment
shall be subject to review by the county’s Superior Court by proceedings in the
nature of certiorari.
   (B)   The petition for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the
county’s Clerk of Court within 30 days after the later of the following
occurrences:
      (1)   A written copy of the Board’s decision (see §
152.140) filed in the office of the Planning Department; or
      (2)   A written copy of the Board’s decision (see §
152.140) delivered by personal service or certified mail return receipt
requested to the applicant or appellant as well as to every other aggrieved
party who has filed a written request for such copy at the hearing of the case.
   (C)   A copy of the writ of certiorari shall be served upon the town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 152.170 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIMENSIONAL NONCONFORMITY. A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height, size, or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship between
an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does not
conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER. Whenever this subchapter refers to the
effective date of this chapter, the reference shall be deemed to include the
effective date of any amendments to this chapter if the amendment, rather than
this chapter as originally adopted, creates a nonconforming situation.
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for a benefit or to fulfill
an obligation. The term also includes binding contractual commitments to make
future expenditures, as well as for any other substantial change in position.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter (and
not created for the purposes of evading the restrictions of this chapter) that
does not meet the minimum area requirement of the district in which the lot is
located.
   NONCONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development, or undertaking that, on
the effective date of this chapter, is incomplete, and, if complete, would be
inconsistent with any regulation applicable to the district in which it said
structure, development, or undertaking is located, proposed, or planned.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign (see §
152.430 for definition) that, on the effective date of this chapter, does not
conform to one or more of the regulations set forth in this chapter, and
particularly the regulations in §§
152.430 through
152.446. NONCONFORMING SIGNS shall not be regarded as nonconforming situations
for purposes of this subchapter, but rather, shall be governed by the
provisions of §§
152.445 and
152.446.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
of this chapter, an existing lot or structure, or use of an existing lot or
structure, does not conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to the
district in which the lot or structure is located. Among other possibilities, a
nonconforming situation may arise because:
      (1)   A lot does not meet minimum acreage requirements;
      (2)   A structure exceeds maximum height limitations;
      (3)   The relationship between an existing building and the land (in such
matters as density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with this
chapter; or
      (4)   A building or parcel of land is used for a purpose(s) made unlawful
by this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a NONCONFORMING
USE. The term NONCONFORMING USE also refers to the activity that constitutes
the use made of the property. For example, all the activity associated with
running a bakery in a residentially zoned area is a NONCONFORMING USE.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.171 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS AND COMPLETION OF
NONCONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter and subject to
the restrictions and qualifications set forth in §§
152.173 through
152.180, nonconforming situations that were otherwise lawful on the effective
date of this chapter may be continued.
   (B)   Nonconforming projects may be completed only in accordance with the
provisions of §§
152.177 through
152.180.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.172 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations applicable to the intended use, except that the lot is smaller than
the required minimums set forth in §
152.280, then the lot may be used as proposed just as if it were conforming;
however, no use (e.g., a two-family residence) that requires a greater lot size
than the established minimum lot size for a particular zone is permissible on a
conforming lot.
   (B)   If a proposed use for a nonconforming lot conforms in all respects
except that the applicable setback requirements (see §
152.283) cannot reasonably be complied with, then the permit-issuing authority
(Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may
allow deviations from the applicable setback requirements if the permit-issuing
authority finds that:
      (1)   The property cannot reasonably be developed for the use proposed
without such deviations;
      (2)   Such deviations are necessitated by the size or shape of the
nonconforming lot; and
      (3)   The property can be developed as proposed without any significant
adverse impacts on the surrounding properties or the public health or safety.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, compliance with applicable
building setback requirements is not reasonably possible if a building that
serves the minimal needs of the use proposed for the nonconforming lot cannot
practicably be constructed and located on the lot in conformity with such
setback requirements; however, mere financial hardship does not constitute
grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
   (D)   This section applies only to undeveloped nonconforming lots. A lot is
undeveloped if it has no substantial structures upon it. A change in use of a
developed nonconforming lot may be accomplished in accordance with §
152.175.
   (E)   Subject to the following sentence, if, on the date this section
becomes effective, an undeveloped nonconforming lot adjoins and has continuous
frontage with one or more other undeveloped lots under the same ownership, then
neither the owner of the nonconforming lot nor his, her, or their successors in
interest may take advantage of the provisions of this section. This division
(E) shall not apply to a nonconforming lot if a majority of the developed lots
located on either side of the street where such lot is located and within 500
feet of such lot are also nonconforming. The intent of this division (E) is to
require nonconforming lots to be combined with other undeveloped lots to create
conforming lots under the circumstances specified herein, but not to require
such combination when such would be out of character with the previous or
current development of the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.173 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this section, no person may engage
in any activity that causes an increase in the extent of nonconformity of a
nonconforming situation. In particular, physical alteration of structures or
the placement of new structures on open land is unlawful if such activity:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming
use; or
      (2)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such
as setback requirements, height limitations, density requirements, or other
requirements such as parking requirements.
   (B)   Subject to division (D) below, a nonconforming use may be extended
throughout any portion of a completed building that, when the use was made
nonconforming by this chapter, was manifestly designed or arranged to
accommodate such use; however, subject to §
152.177, a nonconforming use may not be extended to additional buildings or to
land outside the original building.
   (C)   Subject to §
152.177, a nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except that a
use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a sand
pit) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the use was established
at the time it became nonconforming if 10% or more of the earth products had
already been removed on the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   The volume, intensity, or frequency of use of property where a
nonconforming situation exists may be increased, and the equipment or processes
used at a location where a nonconforming situation exists may be changed, if
these or similar changes amount only to changes in the degree of activity
rather than changes in kind, and if no violations of other divisions of this
section occur.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, any structure used for single-
family residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming use may be
enlarged or replaced with a similar structure of a larger size, so long as the
enlargement or replacement does not create new nonconformities or increase the
extent of existing nonconformities with respect to such matters as setback and
parking requirements. This division (E) is subject to the limitations stated in
§
152.176.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, whenever there exists a lot with
one or more structures on it, and a change in use that does not involve any
enlargement of a structure is proposed for such lot, and the parking or loading
requirements of §§
152.460 through
152.471 that would be applicable as a result of the proposed change cannot be
satisfied on such lot because there is not sufficient area available on the lot
that can practicably be used for parking or loading, then the proposed use
shall not be regarded as resulting in an impermissible extension or enlargement
of a nonconforming situation. The applicant, however, shall be required to
comply with all applicable parking and loading requirements that can be
satisfied without acquiring additional land, and shall also be required to
obtain satellite parking in accordance with §
152.468 if parking requirements cannot be satisfied on the lot with respect to
which the permit is required, and such satellite parking is reasonably
available. If such satellite parking is not reasonably available at the time
the zoning or special or conditional use permit is granted, then the permit
recipient shall be required to obtain satellite parking, if and when, such
satellite parking does become reasonably available. This requirement shall be a
continuing condition of the permit.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.174 REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Minor repairs to, and routine maintenance of, property where
nonconforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged. Major renovations,
i.e., work estimated to cost more than 50% of the appraised valuation of the
structure to be renovated, may be completed only in accordance with a zoning
permit pursuant to this section.
   (B)   If a structure (located on a lot where a nonconforming situation
exists) is damaged to an extent that the costs of repair or replacement would
exceed 50% of the appraised valuation of the damaged structure, then the
damaged structure may be repaired or replaced only in accordance with a zoning
permit issued pursuant to this section. Also, this division (B) does not apply
to single-family residential structures. Such structures may be reconstructed
pursuant to a zoning permit just as they may be enlarged or replaced as
provided in §
152.173.
   (C)   For purposes of divisions (A) and (B) above.
      (1)   The cost of renovation or repair or replacement shall mean the fair
market value of the materials and services necessary to accomplish such
renovation, repair, or replacement.
      (2)   The cost of renovation or repair or replacement shall mean the
total cost of all such intended work and no person may seek to avoid the intent
of divisions (A) and (B) above by doing such work incrementally.
      (3)   The appraised valuation shall mean either the appraised valuation
for property tax purposes, updated as necessary by the increase in the consumer
price index since the date of the last valuation, or the valuation determined
by a professionally recognized property appraiser.
   (D)   The Land Use Administrator shall issue a permit authorized by this
section if he, she, or they finds that, in completing the renovation, repair,
or replacement work:
      (1)   No violation of §
152.173 will occur; and
      (2)   The permittee will comply to the extent reasonably possible with
all provisions of this chapter applicable to the existing use (except that the
permittee shall not lose his, her, or their right to continue a nonconforming
use).
   (E)   Compliance with a requirement of this chapter is not considered
reasonably possible if compliance cannot be achieved without adding additional
land to the lot where the nonconforming situation is maintained, or by moving a
substantial structure that is on a permanent foundation. Mere financial
hardship caused by the cost of meeting such requirements as paved parking does
not constitute grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.175 CHANGE IN USE OF PROPERTY WHERE A NONCONFORMING SITUATION EXISTS.
   (A)   A change in use of property (where a nonconforming situation exists)
that is sufficiently substantial to require a new zoning, special use, or
conditional use permit in accordance with §
152.040 may not be made except in accordance with divisions (B) through (D)
below, however, if only a sign permit is needed, then this requirement shall
not apply.
   (B)   If the intended change in use is from a nonconforming use to a
principal use that is permissible in the district where the property is
located, and all of the other requirements of this chapter applicable to that
use can be complied with, then permission to make the initial use of a vacant
lot. Once conformity with this chapter is achieved, the property may not revert
to its nonconforming status.
   (C)   If the intended change in use is from a nonconforming use to a
principal use that is permissible in the district where the property is
located, but all of the requirements of this chapter applicable to that use
cannot reasonably be complied with, then the change is permissible if the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board
of Commissioners) issues a permit authorizing the change. This permit may be
issued if the permit-issuing authority finds, in addition to any other findings
that may be required by this chapter, that:
      (1)   The intended change will not result in a violation of §
152.173; and
      (2)   The intended change will result in the satisfaction of all of the
applicable requirements of this chapter that can be reasonably be complied
with. Compliance with a requirement of this chapter is not reasonably possible
if compliance cannot be achieved without adding additional land to the lot
where the nonconforming situation is maintained, or by moving a substantial
structure that is on a permanent foundation. Mere financial hardship caused by
the cost of meeting such requirements, such as paved parking, does not
constitute grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
Also, in no case may an applicant be given permission pursuant to this division
(C) to construct a building or add to an existing building if additional
nonconformites would thereby be created.
   (D)   If the intended change in use from a nonconforming use to another
principal use that is also nonconforming, then the change is permissible if the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board
of Commissioners) issues a permit authorizing the change. The permit-issuing
authority may issue the permit if it finds, in addition to other findings that
may be required by this chapter, that:
      (1)   The use requested is one that is permissible in a zoning district
with either a zoning, special use, or conditional use permit;
      (2)   All of the conditions applicable to the permit authorized in
division (C) above are satisfied; and
      (3)   The proposed development will have less of an adverse impact on
those most affected, and will be more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood than the use in operation at the date of the permit application.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.176 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period of
180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention to
reinstate the nonconforming use, the property involved may thereafter be used
only for conforming purposes.
   (B)   If the principal activity on property where a nonconforming situation
other than a nonconforming use exists is discontinued for a consecutive period
of 180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intent to
resume such activity, then the property may thereafter be used only in
conformity with all of the regulations applicable to the preexisting use unless
the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC) issues a
permit to allow the property to be used for this purpose without correcting the
nonconforming situations. This permit may be issued if the permit-issuing
authority finds that eliminating a particular nonconformity is not reasonably
possible (i.e., cannot be accomplished without adding additional land to the
lot where the nonconforming situation is maintained or moving a substantial
structure that is on a permanent foundation). The permit shall specify which
nonconformities need not be corrected.
   (C)   Pursuant to this section, in order to determine whether a right to
continue a nonconforming situation is lost, all of the buildings, activities
and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered as a whole.
For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a nonconforming apartment
building for 180 days shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that
apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment building as a whole is
continuously maintained. If, however, a nonconforming use is maintained in
conjunction with a conforming use, then discontinuance of a nonconforming use
for the required period shall terminate the right to maintain such
nonconforming use thereafter.
   (D)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this chapter is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the 180-day
period for purposes of this section begins to run on the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.177 COMPLETION OF NONCONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)   All nonconforming projects on which construction was begun at least
180 days before the effective date of this chapter as well as all nonconforming
projects that are at least 10% completed in terms of the total expected cost of
the project on the effective date of this chapter may be completed in
accordance with the terms of their permits, provided such permits were validly
issued and remain unrevoked and unexpired. If a development is designed to be
completed in stages, then this division (A) shall apply only to the particular
phase under construction.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, all work on any
nonconforming project shall cease on the effective date of this chapter, and
all permits previously issued for work on nonconforming projects may begin or
may be continued only pursuant to a zoning, special use, conditional use, or
sign permit issued in accordance with this section by the permit-issuing
authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC). The permit-issuing authority
shall issue such a permit if it finds that the applicant has in good faith made
substantial expenditures or incurred substantial binding obligations or
otherwise changed his, her, or their position in a substantial manner in
reasonable reliance on the land-use law as it existed before the effective date
of this chapter and thereby would be unreasonably prejudiced if not allowed to
complete his, her, or their project as proposed, and in order to determine the
same, the permit-issuing authority shall be guided by the following (as well as
by any other relevant considerations).
      (1)   All expenditures made to obtain or pursuant to a validly issued and
unrevoked building, zoning, sign, special or conditional use permit shall be
considered as evidence of reasonable reliance on the land-use law that existed
before this chapter became effective.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(1) above, no expenditures made
more than 180 days before the effective date of this chapter may be considered
as evidence of reasonable reliance on the land-use law that existed before this
chapter became effective. An expenditure is made at the time a party incurs a
binding obligation to make that expenditure.
      (3)   To the extent that expenditures are recoverable with a reasonable
effort, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having made those
expenditures. For example, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having
made an expenditure to acquire a potential development site if the property
obtained is approximately as valuable under the new classification as it was
under the old, for the expenditure can be recovered by a resale of the
property.
      (4)   To the extent that a nonconforming project can be made conforming
and that expenditures made or obligations incurred can be effectively utilized
in the completion of a conforming project, a party shall not be considered
prejudiced by having made such expenditures.
      (5)   An expenditure shall be considered substantial if it is significant
both in dollar amount and in terms of the total estimated cost of the proposed
project, and the ordinary business practices of the developer.
      (6)   A person shall be considered to have acted in good faith if actual
knowledge of a proposed change in the land-use law affecting the proposed
development site could not be attributed to him, her, or them.
      (7)   Even though a person had actual knowledge of a proposed change in
the land-use law affecting a development site, the permit-issuing authority
(Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC) may still find that he, she, or they
acted in good faith if he, she, or they did not proceed with his, her, or their
plans in a deliberate attempt to circumvent the effects of the proposed
ordinance. The permit-issuing authority may find that the developer did not
proceed in an attempt to undermine the proposed ordinance if it determines that
at the time the expenditures were made, either there was considerable doubt
about whether any ordinance would ultimately be passed, or it was not clear
that the proposed ordinance would prohibit the intended development, and the
developer had legitimate business reasons for making expenditures.
      (8)   In order to determine whether or not a permit should be issued
under this section, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA,
or BOC) shall not be limited to either denying a permit altogether or issuing a
permit to complete the project (or phases, sections, or stages thereof) as
originally proposed or approved. Upon proper submission of plans by the
applicant, the permit-issuing authority may also issue a permit authorizing a
development that is less nonconforming than the project was originally proposed
or approved, but that still does not comply with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   When it appears from the developer’s plans or otherwise that a project
was intended to be or reasonably could be completed in phases, stages,
segments, or other discrete units, the developer shall be allowed to complete
only those phases or segments with respect to which the developer can make the
showing required under division (B) above. In addition to the matters and
subject to the guidelines set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(6) above,
the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA, or BOC) shall, when
determining whether a developer would be unreasonably prejudiced if not allowed
to complete phases or segments of a nonconforming project, consider the
following (in addition to any other relevant factors):
      (1)   Whether any plans prepared or approved regarding uncompleted phases
constitute only conceptual plans or construction drawings that are based upon
detailed surveying, architectural, or engineering work;
      (2)   Whether any improvements, such as streets or utilities, have been
installed in phases not yet completed; and
      (3)   Whether utilities and other facilities installed in completed
phases have been constructed in such a manner or location or such a scale, in
anticipation of connection to or interrelationship with approved but
uncompleted phases, that the investment in such utilities or other facilities
cannot be recouped if such approved but uncompleted phases are constructed in
conformity with existing regulations.
   (D)   The permit-issuing authority shall not consider any application for
the permit authorized by division (B) above that is submitted more than 60 days
after the effective date of this chapter. The permit-issuing authority may
waive this requirement for good cause shown, but in no case may it extend the
application deadline beyond one year.
   (E)   The Land Use Administrator shall send copies of this section to the
persons listed as owners for tax purposes (and developers, if different from
the owners) of all properties in which permits have been issued for
nonconforming projects, and/or to the persons listed as owners for tax purposes
(and developers, if different from the owners) in which a nonconforming project
is otherwise known to be under any stage of development. This notice shall be
sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the effective date of this
chapter.
   (F)   The permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Commissioners, or Board of Adjustment) shall establish expedited procedures for
hearing applications for permits under this section. These applications shall
be heard, whenever possible, before the effective date of this chapter, so that
construction work is not needlessly interrupted.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.178 AUTHORIZATION OF NONCONFORMING PROJECTS.
   Whenever an amendment to this subchapter becomes effective after an
application for a development permit is submitted but before the permit is
issued and the effect of the amendment is to render the proposed development
nonconforming, then the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOA,
or BOC) may nevertheless issue the permit even though the project is
nonconforming if the permit-issuing authority finds that the applicant has in
good faith made substantial expenditures or incurred substantial binding
obligations or otherwise changes his, her, or their position in a substantial
manner in reasonable reliance on this subchapter as it existed prior to the
amendment and thereby would be unreasonable prejudiced if required to comply
with this subchapter as so amended.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.179 VESTED RIGHTS, SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners determines whether or not a special use
permit shall be regarded as a site specific development plan under the
provisions of G.S. § 160D-108.1; therefore, once a special use permit or
conditional use permit has been issued, the permit recipient shall have a
vested right to complete the development authorized by such permit in
accordance with its terms, irrespective of subsequent amendments to this
chapter to the extent provided in G.S. § 160D-108.1
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners further determines that recipients of
zoning permits should be entitled to the same protections as recipients of
special or conditional use permits; therefore, subject to §
152.217, once a zoning permit has been issued, the permit recipient shall have
a vested right to complete the development authorized by such permit in
accordance with its terms, irrespective of subsequent amendments to this
chapter to the extent provided in G.S. § 160D-108.1 for development authorized
by the approval of site specific development plans.
   (C)   A vested right under this section commences upon the issuance of the
permit in question, and the date of issuance is to be determined in accordance
with the provisions of §
152.057.
      (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this section
shall remain vested for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be
extended by any amendments or modifications to a site specific development plan
(that are not processed as new applications) unless expressly provided by the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, BOC, or BOA) at the time of
the amendment or modification.
      (2)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-108.1(e)(4), a right which has been
vested in accordance with this section shall terminate at the end of the
applicable vesting period for buildings and uses for which a valid building
permit application has not been filed.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the revocation of a permit
pursuit to §
152.158, and the vesting of rights provided for under this section shall be
terminated upon such revocation.
   (E)   The effect of this section is to ensure that during the period of
vesting, the developer will be protected from subsequent changes in this
chapter to a greater extent than is authorized under §
152.180 which provides for a vesting of rights only after a building permit has
been obtained, or under §
152.177 which generally provides for a vesting of rights only after the
developer has made substantial expenditures in good faith reliance upon this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.180 VESTED RIGHTS UPON ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   As provided in G.S. § 160D-108(c), amendments, modifications, supplements,
repeals, or other changes to the zoning regulations (set forth in this
subchapter), or in the zoning boundaries shall not be applicable or enforceable
without consent of the owner with respect to buildings, and to uses for which
building permits have been issued pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1110 prior to the
enactment of this chapter making the change(s) provided the permit remains
valid and unexpired pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1111 and unrevoked pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-1115.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.181 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, a
nonconforming sign that exceeds the height of size limitations (see §§
152.430 through
152.446) by more than 10%, or that is nonconforming in any other manner, within
three years of the effective date of this chapter or two years after
notification whichever is sooner, must be altered to comply with the provisions
of this chapter (particularly the provisions in §§
152.430 through
152.446), or be removed. If the nonconformity consists of too many freestanding
signs or an excess of the total area (i.e., size) of the sign(s), then the
person(s)/entity(s) responsible for the violation may determine which sign(s)
need to be altered or removed in order for said sign(s) to conform with the
provisions within this chapter.
   (B)   Within nine months after the effective date of this chapter, the Land
Use Administrator shall make every reasonable effort to identify all of the
nonconforming signs within the town’s planning jurisdiction. Also, the Land Use
Administrator shall contact both the person(s)/entity(s) responsible for each
nonconforming sign, and the person(s)/entity(s) who own/owns the property on
which each nonconforming sign is located, and the Land Use Administrator shall
inform said person(s)/entity(s) that:
      (1)   A sign(s) is nonconforming;
      (2)   The specific reason(s) for the nonconformity;
      (3)   The action(s) required to correct the nonconformity;
      (4)   The date by which all corrections need to be completed; and
      (5)   The consequences of the failure to make said corrections.
   (C)   The Land Use Administrator shall keep complete records of all
correspondence, communications, and other actions taken with respect to such
nonconforming signs.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.182 NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Existing mobile home communities shall be considered nonconforming if
the same do not meet all of the standards for such a use as set forth elsewhere
in this chapter at the time of the adoption of this section. Such mobile home
communities shall not expand in any manner beyond the existing developed area
(s); however, at the date of the adoption of this section such communities
shall be allowed to remove and replace units on existing spaces within the
existing area.
   (B)   Only the replacement of units on an existing mobile home space shall
be permitted provided that the total number of replacement units does not
exceed the number of units that existed at the date of the adoption of this
section, and provided that the existing waste treatment system is functioning
properly. Removal and replacement of such units shall not be considered
expansion of the nonconforming use.
   (C)   Any new mobile home unit replaced pursuant to divisions (A) and (B)
above, must be a Class A or Class B mobile home (see § 152.008 for the
definitions of Class A and Class B).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 152.195 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following residential districts are hereby established: R-30, R-
30A, R-20, R-15, R-15A, R-8, (Manufactured Home District), and RE (Residential
Equine).
   (B)   (1)   The R-30 and R-30A Residential Districts are established as
districts in which the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings.
      (2)   The regulations of these districts are intended to provide areas of
a community for those persons desiring residential structures in low urban
density neighborhoods.
      (3)   The regulations are intended to discourage any use which, because
of its character, would interfere with the residential nature of these
districts.
   (C)   (1)   The R-20 Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings.
      (2)   The regulations of this district are intended to provide areas of a
community for those persons desiring residential structures in medium urban
density neighborhoods.
      (3)   The regulations are intended to discourage any use which, because
of its character, would interfere with the residential nature of this district.
   (D)   (1)   The R-15 and R-15A Residential Districts are established as
districts in which the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings.
      (2)   The regulations of these districts are intended to provide areas of
a community for those persons desiring residential structures in relatively
high-density neighborhoods.
      (3)   The regulations are intended to discourage any use which, because
of its character, would interfere with the residential nature of these
districts.
   (E)   (1)   The R-8 district is established as a district in which the
principal use of land is for high-density residential development, including
Class A manufactured homes on individual lots, and manufactured home parks.
      (2)   The regulations are intended to discourage any use which, because
of its character, would interfere with the residential nature of this district.
   (F)   The RE (Residential Equine) District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for low density residential purposes and for
horse farms, horse stables, and related equestrian accessory buildings and
activities. The regulations of this district are intended to:
      (1)   Preserve the existing scale of the low-density residential and
agricultural character of the development in the area south of the town along
U.S. 1;
      (2)   Discourage the conventional subdivision of existing large tracts
into small building lots;
      (3)   Preserve existing horse farms and agricultural uses; and
      (4)   Discourage traditional urban development uses that require major
utility extensions and street improvements.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.196 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The following commercial districts are hereby established: GB (General
Business); OI (Office and Institutional); and LI (Light Industrial).
   (B)   The principal use of land in the GB District shall be for concentrated
business development. Regulations are intended to encourage the construction
of, and the continued use of the land for commercial and service areas, and to
prohibit heavier commercial and industrial uses which would substantially
interfere with the orderly growth of the district to meet the needs of
increased population in the market area.
   (C)   The OI district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for offices and institutions, for the provision of services to
transients and town residents, and for medium-density housing.
   (D)   (1)   The principal use of land in the Light Industrial District shall
be for wholesale activities, industrial research, warehousing, and light
industrial operations.
      (2)   The purpose of this district is to promote and protect both
existing industrial activities and potential sites where urban services are
available and which are considered suitable for continued or future light
industrial uses, to prohibit uses of land which would substantially interfere
with the continuation of uses permitted in the district, and to promote the
operation of industrial facilities in a relatively clean and quiet manner.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.197 PARK DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The Park District is established to preserve and to promote the use of land
for public parks, playgrounds, athletic facilities, swimming facilities, nature
paths, wildlife or nature preserves, wooded areas, and natural green space
areas within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.198 FLOODPLAIN AND FLOODWAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Floodplain and Floodway districts are hereby established as
“overlay districts,” meaning that these districts are overlaid upon other
districts and the land so encumbered may be used in a manner permitted in the
underlying districts only if and to the extent such use is also permitted in
the applicable overlay district.
   (B)   The Floodplain and Floodway Districts are further described in §§
152.405 through
152.413.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.199 AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The Agricultural-Residential (AR) district is designed to accommodate
agricultural and residential uses normally associated with large tracts of
uninhabited land near the fringe of urban areas, and single-family residential
development in areas that may not be served by municipal water and sewer
facilities and are otherwise not yet appropriate for development at higher
densities.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.200 WATER SUPPLY WATERSHED PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Legal provisions. This section shall be known and may be referred to
as the Water Supply Watershed Protection Overlay District Ordinance. The
purpose of this section is to describe the water supply watershed areas and
regulations herein adopted. The town has, within its jurisdiction, a portion of
the Drowning Creek water supply watershed, classified a WS-II by the
Environmental Management Commission. The Board of Commissioners has chosen the
low-density option for development within the water supply watershed areas.
These areas are displayed on the town’s zoning map.
   (B)   Purpose. The Water Supply Watershed Protection Act (G.S. § 143-214.5)
provides for a cooperative program of water supply watershed management and
protection to be administered by local governments consistent with minimum
statewide management requirements established by the Environmental Management
Commission. In order to promote the public health, safety and welfare, and to
protect the public water supply, the Board of Commissioners adopts these water
supply watershed protection regulations effective for all areas designated
Watershed Protection Overlay District on the official zoning map.
   (C)   Effective date. This Overlay District and its provisions governing the
use of land and buildings in designated areas, are hereby established and
declared to be in full force and effect from and after its passage. The
effective date of the Water Supply Watershed Protection Overlay District
Ordinance is October 21, 1993.
   (D)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Required watershed protection permit. If, at the time of
application for a zoning permit, it is determined that the property lies in a
water supply watershed, as shown on the zoning map, a watershed protection
permit will be required. Requirements outlined in Subsection 16.2 of the town
Zoning Ordinance will be followed when an application for a watershed
protection permit is made.
      (2)   Issuance of watershed protection permit.
         (a)   The Administrative Officer shall serve as the Watershed
Administrator and shall issue watershed protection permits as prescribed
herein.
         (b)   If the proposed activity as set forth in the application is in
conformance with the provisions of this Water Supply Watershed Protection
Overlay District, the Watershed Administrator shall issue a watershed
protection permit. If any application for a watershed protection permit is not
approved, the Watershed Administrator shall state in writing on the
application, the cause for such disapproval.
         (c)   Issuance of a permit shall, in no case, be construed as waiving
any provision of this or any other ordinance or regulation. A record of permits
shall be kept on file for public inspection.
      (3)   Watershed Review Board.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment for the town (§
152.022) shall serve as the Watershed Review Board, and shall delegate
administrative review procedures to the town’s Planning Board.
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall retain the responsibility
to grant variances from these regulations. The Town Clerk shall serve as clerk
to the Watershed Review Board.
      (4)   Variances.
         (a)   In granting a variance for property located in an area
designated water supply watershed, in addition to the standard procedures
prescribed in Subsection 15.3 of the town’s Zoning Ordinance, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment will distinguish between a major and a minor variance in the
following manner:
            1.   A major variance is one that:
               a.   Completely waives a management requirement;
               b.   Relaxes, by a factor of more than 10%, any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard; or
               c.   Proposes increases in residential density or built-upon
limits.
            2.   A minor variance is one that does not qualify as a major
variance.
         (b)   With an application for a major variance, the Watershed Review
Board shall provide a recommendation to the state’s Environmental Management
Commission (EMC). The EMC shall have the authority to approve or deny the
issuance of a major variance. If the EMC approves the variance, the Watershed
Review Board may direct the Watershed Administrator to issue a watershed
protection permit.
         (c)   A description of all projects receiving a variance and the
reason for granting the variance shall be submitted to the EMC on January 1 of
each year.
         (d)   When considering variances in areas designated water supply
watershed, the town will notify and allow a reasonable comment period to local
governments having jurisdiction within the watershed, and the entity using the
water supply for consumption.
      (5)   Amendments. Amendments to this Overlay District shall follow
procedures outlined in §§ 152.565 through 152.571. In addition, the
Environmental Management Commission shall be informed of all amendments that
represent major changes in land use regulations in this Overlay District.
   (E)   Water Supply Watershed Overlay District regulations.
      (1)   Allowed and disallowed uses.
         (a)   In addition to permitted and conditional uses listed for the
appropriate district in the town’s zoning ordinance, the following uses are
allowed in the water supply watershed:
            1.   Agriculture, provided it complies with existing state and
federal rules, including the Food Supply Act of 1985 and the Food, Agriculture,
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990;
            2.   Silviculture, provided it complies with existing State and
Federal rules, including the “Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality” (02 NCAC 60C.0101-.0209); and
            3.   Nonresidential development, excluding discharging landfills
and the storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless a spill containment
plan is implemented.
         (b)   All permitted discharges must meet the state’s treatment
standards.
         (c)   New discharging landfills are disallowed in the water supply
watershed.
      (2)   Density for single-family residential development. Single-family
residential development within the water supply watershed shall have a minimum
lot size of one dwelling unit per acre or the lot’s built-upon area shall not
exceed 12%.
      (3)   Density for all other residential and non-residential development.
The lot’s built-upon area shall not exceed 12%.
      (4)   Cluster development. Clustering of development is allowed on a
project-by-project basis provided:
         (a)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments herein. The
overall density of the project shall meet the associated density or stormwater
requirements.
         (b)   All built-upon areas shall be designated and sited to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow; and
         (c)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or
natural state and shall not be developed at any future date. Where the
development has an incorporated property owners association, the title of the
open space area shall be conveyed to the association for management and
maintenance. Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the property deeds, and individual property
owners shall be responsible for maintenance.
      (5)   Required buffers.
         (a)   A minimum 30 foot vegetative buffer is required for new
development activities along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent
versions of the U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as
determined by local government studies. Desirable artificial stream bank or
shoreline stabilization is permitted.
         (b)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways.
These activities are allowed only where no practicable alternative exists.
These activities shall minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff away
from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of best management
practices.
      (6)   Public health regulations.
         (a)   Disallowed uses.
            1.   No activity, situation, structure, or land use shall be
allowed within the watershed that poses a threat to water quality and the
public health, safety, and welfare.
            2.   Such conditions may arise from:
               a.   Inadequate on-site sewage systems that utilize ground
absorption;
               b.   Inadequate sedimentation and erosion control measures;
               c.   Improper storage or disposal of junk, trash, or other
refuse within a buffer area;
               d.   Absence or improper implementation of a spill containment
plan for toxic and hazardous materials;
               e.   Improper management of stormwater runoff; or
               f.   Any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
         (b)   Restraint, correction, and abatement.
            1.   The Administrative Officer shall monitor land use activities
within the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to
water quality.
            2.   The Administrative Officer shall report all findings to the
Planning Board. The Administrative Officer may consult with any public agency
or official and request recommendations.
            3.   Where the Planning Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety, and welfare, the Board shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct, or abate the condition
and/or violation.
   (G)   Exceptions to Water Supply Watershed Overlay District regulations.
      (1)   Single-family pre-existing lots. A pre-existing lot owned by an
individual prior to the effective date of these water supply watershed
protection regulations, regardless of whether or not a vested right has been
established, may be developed for single-family restrictions imposed by these
water supply watershed protection regulations. All regulations stated in the
town’s zoning code do apply. However, this exemption is not applicable to
multiple contiguous lots under single ownership.
      (2)   Existing development. Any existing development, as defined herein,
may be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided herein.
Explanations to structures classified as existing development must meet the
requirement of this amendment, however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the built-upon area calculations.
      (3)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which the
plat or deeds have been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county. Lots may be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed area in
which it is located, provided the following:
         (a)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified in this
amendment, the Administrative Officer is authorized to issue a watershed
protection permit; and
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever two or more contiguous
residential vacant lots of record are in single ownership at any time after the
adoption of this amendment and such lots individually have less area than the
minimum requirements for residential purposes for the watershed area in which
such lots are located, such lots shall be combined to create one or more lots
that meet the standards of this water supply watershed amendment.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes nonresidential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multifamily developments that do not involve the subdivision
of the land.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration or precipitation into the soil.
      DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment, and
other measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment
and in which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving
stream.
      EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built, or those projects
that at a minimum have established a vested right under state zoning law as of
the effective date of this amendment based on the criteria established under
the vested rights amendment to this chapter.
      LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a
sanitary manner in accordance with G.S. Ch. 130A Art. 9. For the purpose of
this amendment this term does not include composting facilities.
      VARIANCE, MAJOR. A variance that:
         (a)   Completely waives a management requirement;
         (b)   Relaxes, by a factor of more than 10%, any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard; or
         (c)   One that proposes to increase residential density or built-upon
limits.
      VARIANCE, MINOR. A variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
      WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires
access to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purposes, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks, and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots, and
commercial boat storage areas are not WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
      WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a
specific point (e.g., the water supply intake).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.201 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be a map known and designated as the official zoning
map which shall show the boundaries of all zoning districts within the town’s
planning jurisdiction.
      (2)   This map shall be drawn on acetate or other durable material from
which prints can be made.
      (3)   The official zoning map shall be dated, and shall be kept in the
Planning Department.
   (B)   (1)   The official zoning map is adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
      (2)   Amendments to this map shall be made and posted in accordance with
§
152.201.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.202 AMENDMENTS TO OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   As set forth in §§ 152.565 through 152.571, amendments to the official
zoning map are accomplished using the same procedures that apply to other
amendments to this chapter.
   (B)   The Land Use Administrator shall update, or cause to be updated, the
official zoning map as soon as possible following any amendment.
   (C)   No unauthorized person may alter or modify the official zoning map.
   (D)   The Planning Department shall keep copies of superseded prints of the
zoning map for historical reference.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
PERMISSIBLE USES
§ 152.215 TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE USES.
   The table of permissible uses should be read in close conjunction with the
definitions in §
152.008, and with the other interpretive provisions set forth in this
subchapter.
Code Use Classification Zoning Districts
                        RE R-30 R-20 R-15 AR MH TP CB GB OI LI
                                                                              Zoning Districts
Code   Use Classification                                                     RE R- R- R- AR MH TP CB GB OI LI
                                                                                 30 20 15
1.000  Residential:
1.110  Single-family residence (one dwelling unit per lot):
1.111     Site-built and modular                                           P  P  P  P  P  S        C  PR
                                                                                                         30
1.112     Mobile home, Class A                                                         S  P
1.120  Single-family detached (more than one dwelling per lot):
1.121     Site built and modular                                                       P
1.122     Manufactured home park                                                          C
1.200  Two-family residences:
1.210     Primary residence with accessory apartment                       S  S  S  S  S
1.220     Duplex                                                                       C
1.230     Two-family apartment                                                         C
1.240     Two-family conversion                                                        C
       Freestanding garage structure up to 900 square feet in area to provide
1.300  inside parking for vehicles and inside storage of materials typically  P  P  P  P  P
       associated with residential uses
1.400  Homes emphasizing special treatment, supervision or care:
1.410     Homes for handicapped and infirm                                       P     P              P
1.420     Nursing and intermediate care                                                               P
1.430     Child care homes                                                 P  P  P  P  P
1.440     Halfway house                                                    P  P  P  P  P
1.450     Nursing care institution                                                                    P
1.460     Intermediate care institution                                                               P
1.470     Senior citizen residential complex                                                          P
1.480     Child care institution                                                                      P
1.490        Child day care home, state regulated                                   S              P
1.491        Child day care home                                        P  P  P  P     S
1.492         Group home                                               P  P  P  P
1.500  Miscellaneous rooms for rent:
1.530     Hotels, motels, and similar business                                                     P  S  P
1.540     Bed, breakfast (food served only to guests)                      S  S  S  S  S
1.541        Bed and breakfast (food served only to guests and non-guests)                   P  P
1.600  Residential equine (See §§ 152.195, 152.247, 152.280 and 152.281)    P  CU
1.700  Home occupations:
1.710     Home occupation                                                  P  P  P  P  P  P     P     P  P
2.000  Sales and rental of goods, merchandise, and equipment:
2.100  No storage or display of goods outside fully enclosed building
       (excluding: vending machines and propane tank sales):
2.110     Large retail stores (over 7,000 square feet)                                             P
2.112      Convenience stores                                                                     P  S
2.120      Small retail stores                                                                 P  P  S
2.130      Wholesale sales                                                                        P  S  S
2.140     Pawn shops                                                                               P
2.200  Storage display of goods outside fully enclosed building:
2.210     Large retail stores (only if in business prior to 9-5-2005)                              P
2.220     Small retail stores (only if in business prior to 9-5-2005)                           C  P
2.230     Wholesale sales                                                                                S
2.240     Seasonable business                                                                   P  P  P  P
3.000  Office, clerical, research and services not primarily related to goods or merchandise:
3.100  All operations entirely within an enclosed building:
          Operations designed to attract and serve customers or clients on
3.110  the premises such as the offices of attorneys, physicians, insurance                        PC PS P
       and stock brokers, travel agents
3.120     Operations designed to attract little or no customer traffic other                       PS P
       than employees
3.130     Physician or dentist offices with less than 10,000 sq. ft.                                  P
3.200  Operations conducted within or outside fully enclosed building:
3.210     Operations designed to attract customers and clients on the                              S     S
       premises
3.220     Operations designed to attract little or no customer traffic other                       PS    S
       than employees
3.230     Banks with drive- through windows                                                     P  P  P
4.000  Manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovating, painting, cleaning, assembling, or goods,
       merchandise, or equipment:
4.100  Operations conducted entirely within fully-enclosed building:
4.110     Majority of dollar volume done with walk-in trade                                        PC    P
4.120     Majority of dollar volume not done with walk-in-trade                                    PC    P
4.200  Operations conducted within or outside fully enclosed building                                 C     P
5.000  Educational, cultural, religious, philanthropic, social, fraternal uses
5.100  Schools:
5.110      Elementary and secondary (including grounds, athletic, and other           C              C
       facilities
5.120     Trade or vocational                                                          C              C
5.130     Colleges, universities, community colleges (including grounds,               C              C
       dormitories, athletic facilities, and the like)
       Churches, synagogues, temples (including associated residential
5.200  structures for religious personnel but not including elementary and    C  C  C  C  C           C  C  C
       secondary school buildings)
5.300  Libraries, museums, art galleries and galleries (including associated
       educational and instructional activities):
5.310     Located in a building designed and previously occupied as a      S  S  S  S  S           P  C
       residence or within a building not over 3,500 sq. ft.
5.320     Located within any permissible structure                                                 S  P
5.400  Social, fraternal clubs and lodges, union halls                                                P  P
6.000  Recreation, amusement, entertainment:
6.100  Conducted entirely within a building or substantial structure:
          Bowling alleys, skating rinks, indoor tennis and squash courts,
6.110  billiard and pool halls, indoor athletic and exercise facilities and                           PS
       similar uses
6.111     Indoor skateboarding rink                                                                      C
6.120     Movie theaters:
6.121        Seating of 300 or less                                                             PS
6.122        Unlimited seating                                                                  PS
6.130     Coliseums, stadiums, and facilities seating 1000+people                                     C
6.140        Electronic gaming operations                                                       C
6.200  Conducted primarily outside enclosed buildings or structures:
          Privately-owned outdoor recreational facilities such as golf and
6.210  country clubs, and swimming and tennis clubs not constructed pursuant              C
       to a permit authorizing the construction of some residential
       development
          Publicly-owned and operated recreational facilities such as golf
6.220  courses, tennis courts, swimming pools, parks not constructed pursuant C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
       to a permit authorizing the construction of another use such as school
          Golf driving ranges not accessory to golf courses, par 3 golf
6.230  courses, miniature golf courses, skateboard parks, water slides, and                           PS
       similar uses
6.240     Horseback riding stables not constructed pursuant to a permit                S
       authorizing residential development
7.000  Institutional residence or care or confinement facilities:
7.100  Hospitals, clinics, other medical (including metal health) treatment                           C
       facilities in excess of 10,000 square feet of floor area
7.200  Nursing care, intermediate care, handicap, childcare institutions                                 S
8.000  Restaurants:
8.100  No substantial carry-out or delivery service, no drive- through                             S  P  S
       service, no service or consumption outside a fully-enclosed structure
       No substantial carry-out or delivery service, no drive- through
8.200  service, service or consumption outside a fully-enclosed structure                          S  S  S
       allowed
8.300  Carry-out or delivery service, consumption outside a fully enclosed                            P
       structure allowed
8.400  Carry-out or delivery service, drive-in service, consumption outside a                         P
       fully-enclosed structure allowed
9.000  Motor vehicle-related sales and service
9.100  Motor vehicle sales or rental                                                                  S
9.110     Mobile home sales                                                                        C
9.200  Sales with installation of motor vehicle parts or accessories                                  C
9.300  Motor vehicle repair/maintenance not including substantial body work                           S
9.400  Motor vehicle painting and body work                                                           S
9.500  Gas sales                                                                                   S  P
9.600  Car wash                                                                                    P  P  O
9.700  Towing                                                                                      C  C
10.000 Storage and parking:
10.100 Automobile parking and garages or parking lots not located on a lot on                         P  P  P
       which there is another principal use to which the parking is related
10.200 Storage of goods not related to the sale or use of those goods on the                                P
       same lot where they are stored
10.210    All storage within completely enclosed structures                                        P     P
10.220    Storage inside or outside completely enclosed structures                                       P
       Parking of vehicles or storage of equipment outside enclosed
10.300 structures where: vehicles or equipments are owned and used by the                                   P
       person making use of the lot, and parking or storage is more than a
       minor and incidental part of the overall use of the lot
11.000 Scrap materials salvage yards, junkyards, automobile graveyards                                      C
12.000 Services and enterprises related to animals:
12.100 Veterinarian                                                                       S           S  P
12.200 Kennel                                                                             S           S  P
13.000 Emergency services:
13.100 Police stations                                                        C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
13.200 Fire stations                                                          C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
13.300 Rescue squad and ambulance service                                     C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
14.000 Agricultural, silver cultural, mining, quarrying operations:
14.100 Agricultural operations, farming excluding home gardening:
14.110    Excluding livestock                                                          P
14.120    Including livestock                                                          P
14.200 Silver cultural operations                                                         C
14.300 Mining and quarrying operations                                                    S
15.000 Miscellaneous public and semi-public facilities:
15.100 Post office                                                                                 P  P  P
15.200 Airport                                                                                              C
15.400 Military reserve, National Guard centers                                                       P  P
16.000 Dry cleaners (in premises), laundromat                                                               S
16.100 Dry cleaners (off premises)                                                                 P  P
17.000 Utility facilities
17.100 Neighborhood                                                           C  C  C  C  C  C  C
17.200 Community or regional                                                                       C  C  C  C
18.000 Towers and related structures:
18.100 Towers and antennas 50 ft. tall or less                                                  C
18.200 Towers and antennas 50 ft. tall and receive only earth stations                    C     C
18.300 Concealed towers                                                                   S           S
19.000 Open air markets and horticultural sales:
19.100 Open air markets, farm markets, craft markets, flea markets                                          S
19.200 Horticultural sales with outdoor display                                           S           C
20.000 Funeral home and crematorium                                                                      P
20.100 Crematorium                                                                                       C
21.000 Cemetery and columbarium                                                                 C
22.000 Nursery schools and day care facilities                                                           C  S
23.000 Temporary structures used in connection with the construction of a     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
       permanent building or for other non-recurring purpose
24.000 Bus station or train station                                           C  C                    C
24.100 Taxi stands                                                                                    C
25.000 Commercial greenhouse operations:
25.100 No on-premises sales                                                               S
25.200 On-premises sales permitted                                                        S
26.000 Special events                                                         C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
27.000 Off-premises signs and billboards
28.000 Subdivisions:
28.100 Major                                                                     C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C
28.200 Minor                                                                     P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.216 USE OF DESIGNATIONS P, S, AND C IN THE TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE USES.
   (A)   Subject to §
152.217 and when used in connection with a particular use in the table of
permissible uses, the letter “P” means that the use is permissible in the
indicated zone with a zoning permit issued by the Land Use Administrator, the
letter “S” means that a special use permit must be obtained from the Board of
Adjustment, and the letter “C” means that a conditional use permit must be
obtained from the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   When used in connection with residential uses (use classification
1.000), the designation “PSC” means that developments of less than five
dwelling units require a zoning permit, developments of five or more but less
than 13 dwelling units require a special use permit, and developments of 13 or
more dwelling units require a conditional use permit.
   (C)   When used in connection with nonresidential uses, the designation “PS”
or “PC” means that such developments require zoning permits when the size of
lot to be developed is less than one acre, and such developments require a
special use permit or conditional use permit, respectively, when the size of
the lot is one acre or larger.
   (D)   Use of the designation PSC for combination uses is explained in §
152.223.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.217 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT JURISDICTION OVER USES OTHERWISE PERMISSIBLE WITH
A ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, if and/or
whenever the table of permissible uses (interpreted in the light of §
152.216, and the other provisions of this subchapter) provides that a use in a
nonresidential zone, or a nonconforming use in a residential zone, is
permissible with a zoning permit, then a special use permit shall nevertheless
be required when the Land Use Administrator finds that the proposed use would
have an extraordinary impact on neighboring properties or on the general
public.
   (B)   In making this determination, the Land Use Administrator shall
consider, among other factors, whether the use is proposed for an undeveloped
or previously developed lot, whether the proposed use constitutes a change from
one principal use classification to another, whether the use is proposed for a
site that poses peculiar traffic or other hazards or difficulties, and whether
the proposed use is substantially unique or is likely to have impacts that
differ substantially from those presented by other uses that are permissible in
the zoning district in question.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.218 PERMISSIBLE USES AND SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   The presumption established by this chapter is that all legitimate
uses of land are permissible within at least one zoning district in the town’s
planning jurisdiction; therefore, since the list of permissible uses set forth
in the table of permissible uses cannot be all-inclusive, those uses that are
listed shall be interpreted liberally in order to include other uses that have
similar impacts to the listed uses.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, all uses that are not listed in
the table of permissible uses, even given the liberal interpretation mandated
by division (A) above, are prohibited. Also, the table of permissible uses
shall not be interpreted to allow a use in one zoning district when the use in
question is more closely related to another specified use that is permissible
in other zoning districts.
   (C)   Regardless of the general language in divisions (A) and (B) above, the
following uses are specifically prohibited in all districts:
      (1)   Any use that involves the manufacture, handling, sale,
distribution, or storage of any highly combustible or explosive materials in
violation of the town’s Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   Stockyards, slaughterhouses, or rendering plants.
      (3)   (a)   Use of a travel trailer as a temporary or permanent
residence.
         (b)   Situations that do not comply with this division (C)(3) on the
effective date of this chapter are required to conform within one year.
      (4)   (a)   Use of a parked motor vehicle, out of which or from which,
any goods are sold or stored, any services are performed, or any other business
is conducted.
         (b)   Situations that do not comply with this division (C)(4) on the
effective date of this chapter are required to conform within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.219 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   (1)   The table of permissible uses classifies principal uses
according to their different impacts.
      (2)   Whenever an activity (which may or may not be separately listed as
a principal use in the table) is conducted in conjunction with another
principal use and the former use constitutes only an incidental or
insubstantial part of the total activity that takes place on a lot, or is
commonly associated with the principal use and integrally related to it, then
the former use may be regarded as accessory to the principal use and may be
carried on underneath the umbrella of the permit issued for the principal use.
For example, a swimming pool/tennis court complex is customarily associated
with and integrally related to a residential subdivision or multifamily
development, and would be regarded as accessory to such principal uses even
though such facilities, if developed apart from a residential development,
would require a special use permit.
   (B)   For purposes of interpreting division (A) above:
      (1)   A use may be regarded as incidental or insubstantial if it is
incidental or insubstantial in and of itself, or in relation to the principal
use; and
      (2)   In order for an accessory use to be commonly associated with a
principal use, the accessory use need only to be associated with the principal
use with such frequency that there is common acceptance of their relatedness.
   (C)   Without limiting the generality of divisions (A) and (B) above, the
following activities, provided the same satisfy the general criteria set forth
above, are specifically regarded as accessory to residential principal uses:
      (1)   Offices or studios within an enclosed building and used by an
occupant of a residence located on the same lot as such building to carry on
administrative or artistic activities of a commercial nature, so long as such
activities do not fall within the definition of a home occupation;
      (2)   Hobbies or recreational activities of a noncommercial nature;
      (3)   The renting of one or two rooms within a single-family residence
(which one or two rooms do not themselves constitute a separate dwelling unit)
to not more than two persons who are not part of the family that resides in
said single-family residence;
      (4)   Yard sales or garage sales that are not conducted on the same lot
for more than three days (whether consecutive or not) during any 90-day period;
and
      (5)   The keeping of fowl and/or rabbits meeting the requirements of §§
90.020 through
90.022.
   (D)   Regardless of the general language in divisions (A) and (B) above, the
following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a residential
principal use, and are prohibited in residential districts:
      (1)   Storing a non-licensed or non-operational motor vehicle outside of
a substantially enclosed structure; and
      (2)   Parking more than four motor vehicles outside a substantially
enclosed structure such that said motor vehicles are parked between the front
building line of the principal building, and the street on any lot used for
purposes that fall within the following principal use classifications: 1.110;
1.120; 1.200; or 1.400.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any language in this section or in the table of
permissible uses to the contrary, where there are two or more contiguous,
residentially-zoned lots under common ownership, and one or more of those lots
is improved with a single-family residence or a two family residence, it shall
be permissible to construct a garage for parking and storage of motor vehicles
owned and/or used by occupants of the residential structures on one of the lots
or on a lot contiguous to the lot on which the residence is located, for the
use and benefit of persons residing on the contiguous residentially used lot
(s). Provided, however, that the garage may not be used for commercial purposes
or for storage of vehicles, material or equipment by any persons other than
residents of the adjoining lot.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.220 PERMISSIBLE USES NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a zoning, special use,
or conditional use permit is not necessary for the following uses:
   (A)   Streets;
   (B)   Electric power, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water,
and sewer lines, wires or pipes, together with supporting poles or structures,
located within a public right-of-way; and
   (C)   Neighborhood utility facilities located within a public right-of-way
with the permission of the owner (state or town) of the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.221 CHANGE IN USE.
   (A)   A substantial change in use of property occurs whenever there is a
change in the essential character, or nature of the activity, conducted on a
lot. A substantial change occurs whenever:
      (1)   The change involves a change from one principal use category to
another;
      (2)   The original use is a combination use or a planned unit
development, and the relative proportion of space devoted to the individual
principal uses that comprise the combination use or planned unit development
changes to such an extent that the parking requirements for the overall use are
altered;
      (3)   The original use is a combination use or a planned unit development
use, and the mixture of types of individual principal uses that comprise the
combination use or planned unit development use changes;
      (4)   The original use is a planned residential development, and the
relative proportions of different types of dwelling units change; and/or
      (5)   Only one business or enterprise is conducted on a lot (regardless
of whether that business or enterprise consists of one individual principal use
or a combination use), and that business or enterprise moves out and a
different type of business or enterprise moves in (even though the new business
or enterprise may be classified under the same principal use or combination use
category as the previous business).
         (a)   For example, if there is only one building on a lot, and if the
building’s sole tenant is a florist shop that moves out and is replaced by a
clothing store, then a change in use occurs even though both the florist shop
and the clothing store are classified within the principal use category of
2.111. If the florist shop, however, were replaced by another florist shop,
then a change use would not occur because the type of business would not
change.
         (b)   Moreover, if the florist shop moved out of a rented space in a
shopping center, and if a clothing store moved into the same space, then a
change in use would not occur because there is more than one business on the
lot, and because the essential character of the activity conducted on that lot
(shopping center - combination use) would not change.
   (B)   A mere change in the status of property from unoccupied to occupied or
vice-versa does not constitute a change in use. Whether a change in use occurs
shall be determined by comparing the two active uses of the property without
regard to any intervening period during which the property may have been
unoccupied, unless the property has remained unoccupied for more than 180
consecutive days or has been abandoned.
   (C)   A mere change in ownership of a business or enterprise, or a change in
the name, shall not be regarded as a change in use.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.222 DEVELOPMENTS IN THE GB ZONING DISTRICT.
   The 2.000, 3.000, and 4.000 classifications in the table of permissible uses
are written in very broad terms; however, it is the intention of this chapter
that the uses described in the 2.000, 3.000, and 4.000 classifications are
permissible in an area zoned GB only when the particular use in accordance with
the objectives of the GB zoning district as set forth in §
152.196.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.223 COMBINATION USES.
   (A)   When a combination use comprises two or more principal uses that
require different types of permits (zoning, special use, or conditional use),
then the permit authorizing the combination use shall be, as indicated in the
table of permissible uses by the designation PSC in each of the columns
adjacent to the classification:
      (1)   A conditional use permit if any of the principal uses combined
requires a conditional use permit;
      (2)   A special use permit if any of the principal uses combined requires
a special use permit but none requires a conditional use permit; and
      (3)   A zoning permit in all other cases.
   (B)   If and/or when a combination use consists of: a single-family detached
residential subdivision that is not architecturally integrated, and two-family
or multifamily uses, then the total density permissible on the entire tract
shall be determined by requiring the developer to indicate on the plans the
portion of the total lot that will be developed for each purpose, and
calculating the density for each portion as if it were a separate lot.
   (C)   If and/or when a combination use consists of: a single-family detached
architecturally integrated subdivision, and two-family or multifamily uses,
then the total density permissible on the entire tract shall be determined by
dividing the area of the tract by the minimum square footage per dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.224 MORE SPECIFIC USE CONTROLS.
   If and/or when a development could fall within more than one use
classification in the table of permissible uses, then the controlling
classification is the classification that most closely and most specifically
describes the development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
§ 152.235 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Where (if at all) manufactured homes are allowed on individual lots,
the applicable regulations of the district in which they are located shall be
met, along with all requirements below that relate to individual units within a
manufactured home park.
   (B)   The following rules apply to manufactured home subdivisions as well as
rental parks.
      (1)   Manufactured home parks are only permitted as a special or
conditional use (up to 13 units shall require a special use permit, and over 13
units shall require a conditional use permit). The location shall be suitable
for residential use, and shall not be subject to hazards such as insect or
rodent infestation, objectionable smoke, noxious odors, unusual noise,
subsidence, or the probability of flooding or erosion. No part of any park
shall be used for nonresidential purposes except such uses that are required
for the maintenance and management of the park (such as laundry facilities and
storage buildings).
      (2)   The soil, groundwater level, drainage, rock formations, and
topography shall not create hazards to the property, or to the health and
safety of occupants.
      (3)   The minimum area for any mobile home park shall be two acres, and
the park shall have a minimum of five spaces available at first occupancy.
      (4)   The minimum lot size for individual mobile home sites shall be
8,500 square feet with a width of at least 50 feet, and a depth of at least 100
feet.
      (5)   Roadways within the park must meet or exceed the street
requirements of this chapter.
      (6)   Each mobile home space shall abut a driveway within the park. Said
driveway shall be graded and surfaced with not less than four inches of crushed
stone or other suitable material on a well-compacted sub-base to a continuous
width of 25 feet, exclusive of required parking space.
      (7)   Two off-driveway parking spaces with not less than four inches of
crushed stone or other suitable material on a well-compacted sub-base shall be
provided for each mobile home space. Required parking spaces may be included
within the square footage requirements for lots.
      (8)   Mobile homes or other structures within a mobile home park shall
not be closer to each other than 20 feet, except that storage or other
auxiliary structures for the exclusive use of the mobile home may be closer to
that mobile home than 20 feet.
      (9)   Mobile homes shall not be located closer than 20 feet to the
exterior boundary of the park or a bounding street or highway right-of-way.
Buildings used for laundry or recreation purposes shall be located no closer
than 40 feet to the exterior boundary of the park or the right-of-way of a
bounding street or highway.
      (10)   The open space and recreational requirements of this chapter shall
apply to manufactured home parks.
      (11)   (a)   The manufactured home park shall have a screening buffer of
plant material a minimum of five feet wide adjacent to and within the park
boundary extending along the entire perimeter of the park.
         (b)   This requirement may be waived by the permit-issuing authority
(Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) if the
boundary is naturally screened by evergreen plant materials, or by natural
topographical features.
         (c)   The screening buffers shall not be a portion of any home space,
street, or private drive. Evergreen shrubs shall be four feet or more in height
at the time of planting.
         (d)   The park shall be completely screened at a height of four to six
feet from the view of adjacent properties.
         (e)   Landscaping shall be provided throughout the park with ample
trees and shrubs to provide shade, and to break up open areas.
         (f)   All bare areas shall be sowed in grass.
      (12)   Each space shall have access to an interior roadway with a paved
width of at least 18 feet. No space shall have direct access to a public
street.
      (13)   Each space shall have hookup facilities for water, sewer,
electricity, and telephone services. All occupied manufactured home units shall
have and use approved sanitary facilities within the manufactured home unit.
      (14)   Each manufactured home space shall be graded, and the graded areas
shall be grassed to prevent erosion and to provide adequate storm drainage away
from the manufactured home.
      (15)   (a)   Manufactured home park operators shall be required to
maintain the park in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The manufactured home park operators shall keep all park-owned
facilities, improvements, equipment, and all common areas in good repair and
maintained in such a manner as to prevent the accumulation or storage of
materials which would constitute a fire hazard or would cause insect or rodent
breeding and harborage.
      (16)   Manufactured home park operators shall be required to supervise
the placement of all manufactured homes to guarantee said homes are properly
anchored and attached to utilities.
      (17)   Manufactured home park operators shall be required to comply with
G.S. § 105-316(a)(1). This requires operators of parks renting lots for three
or more manufactured homes to provide the county’s Tax Supervisor by January 1
of each year with the manufactured homeowners’ names, and with a description of
all of the manufactured homes located in the park.
      (18)   Manufactured home park operators shall operate or provide for the
operation of a solid waste disposal system, including providing park tenants
with appropriate containers. The storage, collection and disposal of solid
waste in the mobile home park shall be conducted so as not to create health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident hazards, fire
hazards, and pollution.
      (19)   Each manufactured home lot may be equipped with a storage building
not to exceed ten feet by ten feet provided that all such buildings are located
adjacent to the rear lot line.
      (20)   Storage of possessions and equipment in the area beneath a
manufactured home shall be prohibited.
      (21)   In order to ensure public safety and welfare, every manufactured
home located in the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall be
underpinned with materials approved by and in a manner approved by the Land Use
Administrator.
      (22)   Any expansion of mobile home parks in existence as of the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the provisions regarding
mobile home parks in this chapter.
      (23)   (a)   The county’s Health Department and the town’s Land Use
Administrator may conduct as many inspections of manufactured home parks as
deemed necessary to insure the maintenance of applicable standards.
         (b)   The operators of manufactured home parks in the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction area shall once a year pay an annual inspection
fee.
         (c)   The operator’s business license or conditional business license
may be revoked if the fee is not paid.
      (24)   The Board of Commissioners shall establish the amount of the
annual inspection fee. This fee shall be payable to the town, and the purpose
of the fee shall be to cover the necessary administrative costs. The amount of
the fee shall be posted in the Town Clerk’s office.
      (25)   All mobile homes shall be set with masonry underpinning.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.236 TEMPORARY EMERGENCY, CONSTRUCTION, OR REPAIR RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Temporary residences used on construction sites of nonresidential
premises shall be removed immediately upon the completion of the project.
   (B)   Permits for temporary residences to be occupied pending the
construction repair, or renovation of the permanent residential building on a
site shall expire within six months after the date of issuance, except that the
Land Use Administrator may renew such permit for one additional period not to
exceed three months if he, she, or they determines that such renewal is
reasonably necessary to allow the proposed occupants of the permanent
residential building to complete the construction, repair, renovation, or
restoration work necessary to make such building habitable.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.237 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   In deciding whether a permit for a special event should be denied for
any reason specified in §
152.048, or in deciding what additional conditions to impose under §
152.054, the Board of Commissioners shall ensure that:
      (1)   The hours of operation allowed shall be compatible with the uses
adjacent to the activity;
      (2)   The amount of noise generated shall not disrupt the activities of
adjacent land uses;
      (3)   The applications shall guarantee that all litter generated by the
special event be removed at no expense to the town; and
      (4)   The Board of Commissioners shall not grant the permit unless it
finds that the parking generated by the event can be accommodated without undue
disruption to or interference with the normal flow of traffic, or to the rights
of adjacent and surrounding property owners.
   (B)   In cases where it is deemed necessary, the Board of Commissioners may
require the applicant to post a bond to ensure compliance with the conditions
of the conditional use permit.
   (C)   If the permit applicant requests the town to provide extraordinary
services or equipment, or if the Board of Commissioners otherwise determines
that extraordinary services or equipment should be provided to protect public
health or safety, then the applicant shall be required to pay to the town a fee
sufficient to reimburse the town for the costs of these services. This
requirement shall not apply if the event has been anticipated in the budget
process and sufficient funds have been included in the budget to confer the
costs incurred.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.238 GASOLINE SERVICE OR FILLING STATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service or filling
stations, but not to ordinary convenience stores who do sell gasoline or
automobile repair work.
   (A)   All buildings shall be located at least 40 feet from any street right-
of-way line.
   (B)   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be located at least 15 feet
from any street right-of-way line.
   (C)   All service, storage, or similar activities shall be conducted
entirely on the premises.
   (D)   All major automobile or similar repair work, if any, shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
   (E)   Open storage of wrecked or inoperable cars, discarded tires, auto
parts, or similar materials shall not be permitted, except as provided in §
152.239.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.239 JUNK YARDS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all junk yards.
   (A)    No material shall be placed in a junk yard in such a manner that it
is capable of being carried off the premises by wind, water, or other causes.
   (B)   All paper, rags, cloth, or other fibers, and all activities involving
the same, except loading and unloading, shall be within fully enclosed
buildings.
   (C)   All outdoor salvage operations and all open storage of materials shall
be located not less than 50 feet from any street right-of-way line and shall be
completely enclosed within a fence or wall eight to ten feet in height, or a
densely planted evergreen buffer strip not less than ten feet in width and
height. This requirement may be modified where abundant natural buffering
exists in the form of natural vegetation and/or terrain.
   (D)   No junk yard shall be located within 500 feet of any residential
district.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.240 TEMPORARY SEASONAL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The Land Use Administrator is authorized to approve seasonal
businesses (such as Christmas tree sales from Thanksgiving through Christmas,
and firework sales beginning two weeks before July 4 through July 5) provided
that sufficient plans are provided to the Land Use Administrator so that the
Land Use Administrator can determine that the business may be operated in a
safe manner. The normal requirements of this chapter shall not apply.
   (B)   The Land Use Administrator should consider parking access, setbacks
from other uses and roads, whether normal sight lines of intersections and the
like will be obstructed, and other similar considerations.
   (C)   Permits issued under this section must be renewed each year, and such
permits are non-transferable.
   (D)   A fee of $25 shall be submitted along with the request for a permit,
and the request shall include a minimal site plan which can be hand-drawn
showing the location, all nearby streets, parking areas, other buildings, and
the like.
   (E)   A denial of a permit requested hereunder shall be immediately
appealable to the Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Applicants are encouraged to make their applications in plenty of time
to provide for an appeal prior to a holiday period.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.241 KENNELS AND PET SHOPS.
   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians
for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter except for the provisions relating to cruelty to animals, and to rabies
control.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.242 CLASS I KENNELS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term Class I kennels shall mean an
establishment where animals (excluding livestock) are kept for the purpose of
showing, competing, hunting, or other sporting, and where the establishment
maintains more than six but less than 19 animals.
   (B)   The owners or operators of all Class I kennels shall, in addition to
other requirements of this chapter, comply with the following minimum standards
of this section.
      (1)   All enclosures housing animals must provide adequate shelter.
      (2)   All animals shall be provided adequate food.
      (3)   All animals shall be provided adequate water.
      (4)   All areas housing animals shall be free of accumulated waste and
debris and shall be maintained regularly so as to promote proper health.
      (5)   All areas housing animals shall be free of accumulated or standing
water.
      (6)   All animals housed shall be provided with proper veterinary care to
promote good health.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.243 CLASS II KENNELS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, Class II kennels shall mean an
establishment where:
      (1)   Animals (excluding livestock) are kept regularly for the purposes
of breeding, buying, selling, boarding, or for the training of security dogs;
or
      (2)   Twenty or more animals (excluding livestock), each of which is four
months of age or older, are regularly kept.   
   (B)   No person may own or operate a Class II kennel within the town unless
and until such person satisfies the requirements of this section and has been
issued a privilege license by the town. A permit issued in accordance with this
section may be revoked by the Land Use Administrator after notice and hearing,
for any reason that would have justified denial of the permit in the first
instance. If the Land Use Administrator denies or revokes a permit in
accordance with this section, he, she, or they shall notify the owner or
operator of his, her, or their right to appeal such decision in accordance with
§
152.115.
   (C)   All Class II kennels shall, in addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this section. Facilities
shall be subject to inspection during reasonable hours by the Land Use
Administrator upon request. No person may operate a Class II kennel unless the
premises meet the following standards and animals receive the following minimum
care.
      (1)   Buildings or enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate
protection against extreme weather conditions. Floors of buildings and runs and
walls shall be of a nonporous material or otherwise constructed so as to permit
proper cleaning and disinfecting. Temperatures in animal containments shall be
maintained at a level that is healthful for every species of animal in the
containment.
      (2)   Cages, kennels, or runs shall have sufficient space for each animal
to sit, stand up, lie down, turn around, and stretch out to its full length
without touching the sides or tops of the cage, kennel, or run. Cages, kennels,
and runs are to be of a material and construction that permits cleaning and
disinfecting, and shall have an impervious surface. Cages, kennels, and run
floors of concrete shall have resting board or some type of bedding. Cages,
kennels, and runs shall provide protection from the weather. All animal
quarters are to be kept clean, dry, and in a sanitary condition. Cages,
kennels, and runs shall be structurally sound and maintained in good repair to
protect animals from potential injury, contain the animals, and restrict the
entrance to other animals and people.
      (3)   Animals shall not be placed in cages, kennels, or runs unless such
cages, kennels, or runs are so constructed to prevent animal excreta from
entering other cages, kennels, or runs.
      (4)   Sufficient shade shall be provided to allow all animals kept
outdoors to protect themselves from the direct rays of the sun.
      (5)   Each animal shall be given the opportunity for vigorous daily
exercise as appropriate.
      (6)   Litter boxes shall be provided for cats and kittens.
      (7)   All animals shall be provided adequate food.
      (8)   Supplies of food and bedding shall be stored in facilities which
adequately protect such supplies against infestation or contamination by
vermin. Refrigeration shall be provided for supplies of perishable food.
      (9)   All animals shall be provided adequate water. Water containers
shall be of removable type and be mounted or secured so that the animals cannot
readily tip it over or defecate or urinate in them.
      (10)   All food and water containers shall be cleaned and disinfected
daily.
      (11)   All animals must be fed and watered, cages and kennels cleaned
each day, including Sundays and holidays, and disinfected weekly or more
frequently if the kennel is exposed to an infectious disease.
      (12)   Adequate veterinary care shall be provided as needed for each
animal.
      (13)   Provisions shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal
and food waste, bedding, and debris.
      (14)   Facilities such as a washroom, sink, or basin shall be provided to
maintain cleanliness among animal caretakers and of animal food and water
containers.
      (15)   (a)   Facilities for animals shall be adequately ventilated to
provide for the health and comfort of the animals at all times.
         (b)   Such facilities shall be provided with fresh air, either by
means of windows, doors, vents, or air conditioning and shall be ventilated so
as to minimize drafts, odors, and moisture condensation.
      (16)   (a)   Facilities for animals shall have ample light by natural or
artificial means or both, of good quality and well-distributed and as
appropriate for each animal’s health and well-being.
         (b)   Such lighting shall provide uniformly distributed illumination
of sufficient light intensity to permit routine inspection and cleaning during
the entire working period.
         (c)   Enclosure shall be so placed as to protect the animals from
excessive illumination.
      (17)   Every person maintaining such a facility shall post a notice
clearly visible from the ground level at the main entrance to the facility
containing the names, addresses, and telephone number of persons responsible
for the facility where they may be contacted during any hour of the day or
night.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.244 PET SHOPS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term PET SHOP shall mean an
establishment wherein animals bred by others are held for sale or exchange, or
where animals are cleaned and groomed.
   (B)   (1)   No person may own or operate a pet shop within the town unless
and until such person satisfies the requirements of this section and has been
issued a privilege license by the town.
      (2)   A permit issued in accordance with this section may be revoked by
the Land Use Administrator after notice and hearing, for any reason that would
have justified denial of the permit in the first instance.
      (3)   If the Land Use Administrator denies or revokes a permit in
accordance with this section, then he, she, or they shall notify the owner or
operator of his, her, or their right to appeal such decision in accordance with
§
152.115.
   (C)   (1)   All pet shops, as defined herein, including pet shops run in
conjunction with another animal facility, shall, in addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, comply with the minimum standards of this
section.
      (2)   Failure to meet these standards shall be grounds for issuance of a
citation subjecting the owner to the penalties described herein, and/or the
issuance of an abatement order to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Facilities shall be subject to inspection by the Land Use
Administrator at any time during normal business hours and without prior
notice.
      (4)   No person may own or operate a pet shop unless the premises meet
the following standards and animals are given the following minimum care.
         (a)   Purchase or sale of puppies or kittens under eight weeks of age
is prohibited.
         (b)   All animals on premises of the pet shop will have received,
prior to procurement, all requisite vaccines and standard medical attention.
         (c)   There shall be available hot water at a minimum temperature of
140°F for washing cages and disinfecting, and cold water easily accessible to
all parts of the shop.
         (d)   Adequate water shall be accessible to all species at all times.
Containers are to be cleaned and disinfected each day. All water containers
shall be removable for cleaning and be mounted so the animal cannot turn them
over or defecate in them.
         (e)   The temperature of the area around the animal enclosure in the
shop shall be maintained at a level that is healthful for every species of
animals kept in the shop.
         (f)   All cages and enclosures are to be of a nonporous material for
easy cleaning and disinfecting. Each cage must be of sufficient size that the
animal will have room to stand, turn, and lie down. Floors of the enclosure
must be of sufficient strength and design to ensure the animal’s limbs or paws
cannot pass through the floor material.
         (g)   All animals shall be provided adequate food. All animals under
three months of age are to be fed at least two times per 24 hours. Food for all
animals shall be served in a clean dish so mounted that the animal cannot
readily tip it over and be of the removable type.
         (h)   Each bird must have a perch and sufficient room to sit on a
perch. Perches shall be placed horizontal to each other in the same cage. Cages
and perches must be cleaned every day and cages must be disinfected when birds
are sold or as otherwise transferred. Parrots and other large birds shall have
separate cages from smaller birds.
         (I)   There shall be sufficient, dry bedding to meet the needs of each
individual animal. Provision shall be made for the removal and disposal of
animal and food waste, bedding and debris, to assure the enclosure is
maintained in a clean and sanitary manner.
         (j)   All animals must be fed, watered, and all cages cleaned every
day, including Sundays and holidays.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.245 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   In addition to other applicable provisions of the town code and this
chapter, towers and antennas attached thereto that exceed 50 feet in height
shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   A tower may not be located within 1,500 feet of another tower
(measured in a straight line and not by street distance).
   (B)   The base of the tower shall be set back from a street right-of-way
line a distance that is not less than the height of the tower, and from every
lot boundary line, a distance that is not less than 50% of the height of the
tower. The setbacks provided for herein may be reduced up to 50% if the
applicant provides the town with an independent study submitted by a licensed
engineer who certifies that the applicant’s proposed setbacks contain the
potential collapse zone. In all cases the minimum distance between the base of
a tower and any residential structure shall be equal to the height of the
tower, except where the owners of all such structures consent in writing to a
reduction, in which case the setback may reduced by up to 50%. The minimum
distance between the base of a tower and any other structure (except structures
accessory to the tower) shall be equal to 50% of the height of the tower,
except as reduced pursuant to an engineer’s certification as set forth above.
   (C)   (1)   Lighting shall not exceed the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) minimum if lighting is required by the FAA.
      (2)   To the extent allowed by the FAA, strobes shall not be used for
nighttime lighting.
      (3)   The lights shall be oriented so as not to project directly onto
surrounding residential property, consistent with FAA requirements.
      (4)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall be
required to submit documentation from the FAA that the lighting is the minimum
lighting required by the FAA.
   (D)   Towers and antennas shall be constructed and operated so as not to
disturb or interfere with the use or operation on adjoining or nearby
properties of radios, televisions, telephones, or similar equipment.
   (E)   Commercial messages may not be displayed on any tower.
   (F)   (1)   The output from the tower may not exceed federally approved
levels for exposure to electronic magnetic force (EMF).
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to submit documentation with the
application verifying the compliance with this standard.
   (G)   (1)   If the tower is up to 180 feet in height, the tower shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate at least one additional
telecommunication user.
      (2)   If the tower exceeds 180 feet, the tower shall be engineered and
constructed to accommodate at least two additional telecommunication users.
      (3)   Furthermore, the site plan must show locations for accessory
buildings necessary to accommodate a minimum of two users, even if the tower is
proposed for a single user.
   (H)   The base of the tower and each guy anchor shall be surrounded by a
fence or wall at least eight feet in height and constructed of material that
cannot be easily climbed or penetrated, unless the tower and all guy wires are
mounted entirely on a building at least eight feet in height.
   (I)   (1)   If visible from any street or residential area, the base of the
tower, any guy wires, and any associated structures, walls, or fences shall be
surrounded by a Type A screening.
      (2)   The site developer shall have the option of providing the screening
around the tower base and associated items individually, or providing the
screening around the perimeter of the entire site.
   (J)   Outdoor storage shall not be permissible on tower sites.
   (K)   The color of the tower shall be of light tone, except to the extent
required by law, so as to minimize its visual impact.
   (L)   In addition to other information that must be submitted with the
application, the application for a tower must contain the following
information:
      (1)   Identification of the intended user(s) of the tower, if known at
the time the application, or thereafter when the user(s) are determined;
      (2)   Documentation provided by a registered engineer that the tower has
sufficient structural integrity to accommodate more than one user;
      (3)   Documentation by the applicant that no suitable existing facilities
within the coverage area are available to the applicant. Documentation may
include maps, letters from adjacent tower owners, or calculations. Facilities
include other towers, or other buildings or structures; and
      (4)   A statement indicating the owner’s intent to allow shared use of
the tower and how many other users can be accommodated.
   (M)   (1)   The recipient of a permit for a tower shall be required as a
continuing condition on the validity of the permit to submit, to the Land Use
Administrator by January 31 of each year, documentation including, but not
limited to, an FCC license indicating that the tower is being utilized.
      (2)   Towers which are not used for a period of six months or more shall
be removed by the owner within 90 days thereafter. A statement of financial
responsibility and performance security shall be posted for each tower to
guarantee compliance with this requirement.
   (N)   The tower shall be constructed with a grounding system that provides
adequate protection from destruction or damage by lighting.
   (O)   The proposed addition of another user’s antenna to a pre-existing
tower, or any substantial change in the previously approved tower, shall
constitute a minor modification which must be approved by the Land Use
Administrator.
   (P)   In addition to the considerations for conditional or special use
permits found in §
152.048, the approving bodies in determining whether a tower is in harmony with
the area of a tower on the value of adjoining or abutting properties may
consider the aesthetic effects of the tower as well as mitigating factors
concerning aesthetics, and may disapprove a tower on the grounds that such
aesthetic effects are unacceptable. Factors relevant to aesthetic effects are:
      (1)   The protection of the view in sensitive or particularly scenic
areas and areas specially designated in adopted plans such as unique natural
features, scenic roadways and historic sites;
      (2)   The concentration of towers in the proposed areas; and
      (3)   Whether the height, design, placement, or other characteristics of
the proposed tower could be modified to have a less intrusive impact.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.246 SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The town’s sexually-oriented business zoning regulations are codified in §§
152.535 through 152.550. Licensing regulations are codified in
Chapter 112.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.247 HORSE FARMS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this chapter, horse
farms shall be authorized only by way of a conditional use permit issued by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter applicable to
conditional uses, any horse farm developed within the town’s planning
jurisdiction shall conform to the following development standards.
      (1)   Fences along roads within the development shall be setback at least
five feet to allow a riding area along the road. Fences may be placed in the
setbacks set forth below.
      (2)   There shall be at least one and one-half acres of usable pasture
for each horse.
      (3)   Minimum lot area with stable or horse farm shall be five acres.
      (4)   Minimum lot width for horse farms shall be 200 feet.
      (5)   Principal building setback requirements shall be 40 feet in the
front, 50 feet in the rear, 25 feet on the side, and 25 feet from side streets
or roads.
      (6)   Stable setback shall be 50 from any property line.
      (7)   Maximum building height is 35 feet.
      (8)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 20%.
      (9)   Minimum principal building size shall be 1,500 square feet.
      (10)   Minimum principal building size first floor shall be 1,100 square
feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.248 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the regulations provided for elsewhere in this chapter,
electronic gaming operations shall be subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   Electronic gaming operations may operate from 10:00 a.m. until 10:00
p.m. seven days per week.
   (B)   Spacing requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Each electronic gaming operation must be a minimum of 500 feet from
any building being used as a dwelling.
      (2)   Each electronic gaming operation must be a minimum of 1,000 feet
from any other electronic gaming operation.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (B)(3), the distance shall be
measured in a straight line from the closet point between the building housing
the electronic gaming operation and the building housing the dwelling or other
electronic gaming operations.
      (4)   The 500-foot spacing requirement in division (B)(1) above shall not
apply if:
         (a)   The electronic gaming operation includes no more than two
electronic gaming machine; or
         (b)   If the only dwelling located within 500 feet of the electronic
gaming operation is owned or occupied by the owner of the electronic gaming
operation.
   (C)   All applicable state and local permits and business licenses must be
issued to the applicant prior to the opening of the business.
   (D)   If food and/or beverages are served, the established must meet any
state requirements and the requirements of the county’s Health Department.
   (E)   The provisions of §
152.173(B) and (D) shall not apply to electronic gaming operations that are
lawful nonconforming uses, as defined by §
152.170, as of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.260 SMOKE.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining the density of equivalent opacity of
smoke, the Ringlemann Chart, as adopted and published by the United States
Department of Interior, Bureau of Mines Information Circular 8333, May 1967,
shall be used. The Ringlemann number referred to in this section refers to the
number of the area of the Ringlemann Chart that coincides most nearly with the
visual density of equivalent opacity of the emission of smoke observed. For
example, a reading of Ringlemann No. 1 indicates a 20% density of the smoke
observed.
   (B)   All measurements shall be taken at the point of emission of the smoke.
   (C)   Only in the Light Industrial District shall any business or industrial
use emit from a vent, stack, chimney, or combustion process any smoke that is
visible to the naked eye. In that district, no use may emit from a vent, stack,
chimney, or combustion process any smoke that exceeds a density or equivalent
capacity of Ringlemann No. 1 except that an emission that does not exceed a
density or equivalent capacity of Ringlemann No. 2 is permissible for a
duration of not more than four minutes during any eight-hour period.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.261 NOISE.
   (A)   No use in any permissible business or industrial district may generate
noise that tends to have an annoying or disruptive effect upon uses located
outside the immediate space occupied by the use if that use is one of several
located on a lot, or uses located on adjacent lots.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (F), the table set forth in division
(E) establishes the maximum permissible noise levels for uses in the L-
1 District. Measurements shall be taken at the boundary line of the lot where
the use is emitting the noise is located, and as indicated, the maximum
permissible noise levels vary according to the zoning of the lot adjacent to
the lot on which the noise use is located.
   (C)   A decibel is a measure of a unit of sound pressure. Since sound waves
having the same decibel level sound louder or softer to the human ear depending
upon the frequency of the sound wave in cycles-per-second an A-weighted filter
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the American National
Standards Institute, which automatically takes account of the varying effect on
the human ear of different pitches, shall be used on any sound level meter
taking measurements required by this section. And accordingly, all measurements
are expressed in dB(A) to reflect the use of this A-weighted filter.
   (D)   The standards established in the table set forth in division (E) are
expressed in terms of the equivalent sound level (Leq), which must be
calculated by taking 100 instantaneous A-weighted sounds levels at ten-second
intervals.
   (E)   Table of maximum permitted sound levels, dB(A) emitting from
industrial or businesses:
 
Residential Commercial Industrial
50          55         60
 
   (F)   (1)   Impact noises are sounds that occur intermittently rather than
continuously.
      (2)   Impact noises generated by sources that do not operate more than
one minute in any one-hour period are permissible up to a level of 10 dB(A) in
excess of the figures listed above in division (E), except that this higher
level of permissible noise shall not apply from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. when the
adjacent lot is zoned residential.
      (3)   The impact noise shall be measured using the fast response of the
sound level meter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.262 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE OR INTERFERENCE.
   No use may:
   (A)   Create any electrical disturbance that adversely affects any
operations or equipment other than those of the creator of such disturbance; or
   (B)   Otherwise cause, create, or contribute to the interference with
electronic signals (including television and radio broadcasting transmission)
to the extent that the operation of any equipment not owned by the creator of
such disturbance is adversely affected.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.263 ODOR.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the ODOR THRESHOLD is defined as the
minimum concentration in air of a gas, vapor, or particulate matter that can be
detected by the olfactory systems of a panel of health observers.
   (B)   No use in any district may generate any odor that reaches the odor
threshold, measured at:
      (1)   The outside boundary of the immediate space occupied by the
enterprise generating the odor; or
      (2)   The lot line if the enterprise generating the odor is the only
enterprise located on a lot.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.264 AIR POLLUTION.
   (A)   Any use that emits any air contaminant as defined in G.S. § 143-
215.107 as amended, shall comply with applicable state standards concerning air
pollution, as set forth in G.S. § 143-211.
   (B)   No zoning, special use, or conditional use permit may be issued with
respect to any development covered by division (A) until the state’s Department
of Environmental Management Air Quality Section has certified to the permit-
issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of
Commissioners) that the appropriate state permits have been received by the
developer, or the developer will be eligible to receive such permits and that
the development is otherwise in compliance with applicable air pollution laws.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.265 DISPOSAL OF LIQUID WASTES.
   (A)   No use in any district may discharge any waste contrary to the
provisions of state laws governing discharges of radiological, chemical, or
biological wastes into surface or subsurface waters.
   (B)   No use in any district may discharge into the sewage treatment
facilities any waste that cannot be adequately treated by biological means.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS
AND ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS
§ 152.280 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   Subject to the provisions of §
152.286, all lots in the following zones shall have at least the amount of
square footage indicated in the following table:
Zone Minimum Square Feet
Zone  Minimum Square Feet
GB    30,000
LI    50,000
OI    30,000
R-8   8,500
R-15A 15,000
R-15  15,000
R-20  20,000
R-30A 30,000
R-30  30,000
RE    10/5 acres*
*10 acres if horses are stabled on the tract, and 5 acres if horses are not
stabled on the tract.
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.281 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   (A)   Every lot developed for residential purposes shall have dwelling units
which contain the following minimum of heated square feet of living area per
unit:
Zone Minimum Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit
     (heated living area)
Zone  Minimum Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit
      (heated living area)
R-8   No minimum
R-20  1,000
R-15A 1,500
R-15  1,250
R-30A 1,500
R-30  1,600
R-E   1,600
 
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, to the provisions of §§
152.286, and
152.287 every lot developed for residential purposes shall have the number of
square feet per dwelling unit indicated in the following table. In order to
calculate the number of dwelling units permissible on a tract of land,
fractions shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
Zone Minimum Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit (heated living area)
Zone  Minimum Square Feet Per Dwelling Unit (heated living area)
R-8   8,500
R-15A 15,000
R-15  15,000
R-20  20,000
R-30A 30,000
R-30  30,000
RE    10/5 acres*
*10 acres if horses are stabled on the tract, and 5 acres if horses are not
stabled on the tract. Also, it is the intent of this section that if a tract
is less than 10 acres, then said tract shall have only one dwelling unit
thereon.
 
   (C)   Primary residences with an accessory apartment and two-family
conversions (where and if allowed) shall be allowed only on lots having at
least 150% of the minimum square footage required for one dwelling unit on a
lot in such district. With respect to multifamily conversions into three- or
four-dwelling units, the minimum lot size shall be 200% and 250% respectively
of the minimum required for one dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.282 MINIMUM LOT WIDTHS.
   (A)   No lot may be created that is so narrow or otherwise so irregularly
shaped that it would be impracticable to construct on it a building that could:
      (1)   Be used for purposes that are permissible in that zoning district;
and
      (2)   Satisfy any applicable setback requirements for that district.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing standard, the
following table indicates minimum lot widths, which are deemed presumptively to
satisfy the standard set forth in division (A) above. The lot width shall be
measured along a straight line connecting the points at which a line that
demarcates the required setback from the street intersects with lot boundary
lines at the opposite sides of the lot.
Zone Lot Width (in feet)
Zone  Lot Width (in feet)
GB    120
LI    120
OI    150
R-8   60
R-20  100
R-15A 120
R-15  120
R-30A 120 (35-foot minimum at street line)
R-30  120 (35-foot minimum at street line)
RE    120
 
   (C)   No lot created after the effective date of this chapter that is less
than the recommended width shall be entitled to a variance from any building
setback requirement.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.283 BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subject to §§
152.284 and
152.287 and the other provisions of this section, no portion of any building,
below ground structure (for example below ground storage tanks), or any
freestanding sign may be located on any lot closer to any lot line or to the
street right-of-way line or centerline than is authorized in the table set
forth in this section.
Building Setbacks
Zone Front (from r-o-w) Side      Rear      Corner Side
     (in feet)          (in feet) (in feet) (in feet)
Building Setbacks
Zone  Front (from r-o-w) Side      Rear      Corner Side
      (in feet)          (in feet) (in feet) (in feet)
GB    30                 25        20        35
LI    40                 25        20        35
OI    30                 25        20        35
R-8   25                 10        15        25
R-20  30                 15        25        25
R-30A 30                 25        30        25
R-30  30                 25        30        25
R-15A 30                 25        30        25
R-15  30                 25        30        25
RE    30                 25        30        25
 
      (1)   If the street right-of-way line is readily determinable (by
reference to a recorded map, set irons, or other means), then the setback shall
be measured from such right-of-way line. If the right-of-way line is not so
determinable, then the setback shall be measured from the street centerline and
30 feet shall be added when determining setbacks from streets. Front setbacks
for signs shall be one-half the applicable setbacks for buildings, unless the
sign poses a public health and safety hazard in which case the permit-issuing
authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of
Commissioners) may require more than one-half of the applicable setback up to
and including the setbacks of buildings.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term LOT BOUNDARY LINE refers to lot
boundaries other than those that abut streets.
      (3)   As used in this section, the term BUILDING includes any substantial
structure which by nature of its size, scale, dimensions, bulk, or use tends to
constitute a visual obstruction or generate activity similar to that usually
associated with a building. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the following structures shall be deemed to fall within this description:
         (a)   Gas pumps and overhead canopies or roof; and
         (b)   Fences running along lot boundaries adjacent to public street
rights way if such fences exceed six feet in height and are substantially
opaque.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a sign may be
erected on or affixed to a structure that has a principal function that is
something other than the support of the sign (e.g., a fence), but does not
constitute a building as defined in this chapter, only if such sign is located
so as to comply with the setback requirement applicable to freestanding signs
in the district where such sign is located.
   (B)   Whenever a lot in a nonresidential district has a common boundary line
with a lot in a residential district, and the property line setback requirement
applicable to the residential lot is greater than that applicable to the
nonresidential lot, then the lot in the nonresidential district shall be
required to observe the property line setback requirement applicable to the
adjoining residential lot.
   (C)   Setback distances shall be measured from the property line or street
right-of-way line to a point on the lot that is directly below the nearest
extension of any part of the building that is substantially a part of the
building itself and not a mere appendage to it (such as a flagpole, and the
like).
   (D)   Whenever a private road that serves more than three lots or more than
three dwelling units or that serves any nonresidential use tending to generate
traffic equivalent to more than three dwelling units is located along a lot
boundary.
      (1)   If the lot is not also bordered by a public street, then buildings
and freestanding signs shall be set back from the centerline of the private
road just as if such road were a public street.
      (2)   If the lot is also bordered by a public street, then the setback
distance on lots used for residential purposes (as set forth above in the
column labeled “Minimum Distance from Lot Boundary Line”) shall be measured
from the inside boundary of the traveled portion of the private road.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the building setback requirements established in
division (A) above, the minimum front yard setback requirements for the old
sections of town that currently have 100 foot rights-of-way (Boston Avenue to
Chicago Avenue, and Vineland Street to Peach Street), with the exception of
U.S. Highway# 1, shall be ten feet from the property line. The corner side
minimum setback requirement for the lots included in this division (E) shall
likewise be ten feet from the property line.
   (F)   Subject to §§
152.284 and
152.287 and to the other provisions of this section, no portion of any
building, below ground structure (for example: below ground storage tanks), or
any free standing sign may be located on any lot closer to any lot line or to
the street right-of-way line or centerline than is authorized in the table set
forth in this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.284 ACCESSORY BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All accessory buildings in residential districts (i.e., those
established by §
152.219) must comply with the street right-of-way setbacks set forth in §
152.283 but (subject to the remaining provisions of this section) shall be
required to observe only a five foot side setback and a four-foot setback from
rear lot boundary lines.
   (B)   Where the high point of the roof or any appurtenance of an accessory
building exceeds 12 feet in height, the accessory building shall be set back
from rear lot boundary lines an additional two feet for every foot of height
exceeding 12 feet.
   (C)   Maximum lot coverage of principal and accessory buildings shall not
exceed 40% of the lot.
   (D)   Accessory buildings (on lots used for residential purposes) shall be
limited to 900 square feet, and must be situated behind the primary residence.
   (E)   An accessory building larger than 900 square feet may be constructed
on a lot used for residential purposes with the issuance of a special use
permit and provided that the building complies with all other requirements of
this chapter, including but not limited to the setback and maximum lot coverage
requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.285 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A point of access to a roof shall be the top of any parapet wall
or the laced point of a roof’s surface, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Roofs with slopes greater than 75% are regarded as walls.
   (B)   Subject to the remaining provisions of this section, building height
limitations in the various zoning districts shall be as follows:
Zone Height Limitation (feet)
Zone  Height Limitation (feet)
LI    35
OI    35
R-8   35
R-15A 35
R-15  35
R-30A 35
R-30  35
 
   (C)   Subject to division (D), the following features are exempt from the
district height limitations set forth in division (B):
      (1)   Chimneys, church spires, elevator shafts, and similar structural
appendages not intended as places of occupancy or storage;
      (2)   Flagpoles and similar devices; and
      (3)   Heating and air conditioning equipment, solar collectors, and
similar equipment, fixtures, and devices.
   (D)   The features listed in division (C) are exempt from the height
limitations set forth in division (B) if they conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   No more than one-third of the total roof area may be consumed by
such features.
      (2)   The features described in division (C)(3) above must be set back
from the edge of the roof a minimum distance of one foot for every foot by
which such features extend above the roof surface of the principal building to
which they are attached.
      (3)   The permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, Board of Commissioners) may authorize or require that parapet walls
be constructed (up to a height not exceeding that of the features screened) to
shield the features listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) from view.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B), in any zoning district the vertical
distance from the ground to a point of access to a roof surface of any
nonresidential building or any multifamily residential building containing four
or more dwelling units may not exceed 35 feet unless the Fire Chief certifies
to the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment,
or Board of Commissioners) that such building is designed to provide adequate
access for firefighting personnel or the Building Inspector certifies that the
building is otherwise designed or equipped to provide adequate protection
against the dangers of fire.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.286 CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In any single-family residential subdivision in zones indicated below,
a developer may create lots that are smaller than those required by §
152.280 if such developer complies with the provisions of this section and if
the lots so created are not smaller than the minimums set forth in the
following table:
 
Zone  Minimum Square Feet
R-15A 11,250*
R-15  11,250
R-20  15,000
R-30A 20,000
R-30  20,000
Note to table: *residential only
 
   (B)   The intent of this section is to authorize the developer to decrease
lot sizes and leave the land “saved” by so doing as usable open space, thereby
lowering development costs and increasing the amenity of the project without
increasing the density beyond what would be permissible if the land were
subdivided into the size of lots required by §
152.280.
   (C)   The amount of usable open space that must be set aside shall be
determined by:
      (1)   Subtracting from the standard square footage requirement (as set
forth in §
152.280) the amount of square footage of each lot that is smaller than that
standard; and
      (2)   Adding together the results obtained in division (C)(1) above for
each lot.
   (D)   The provisions of this section may only be used if the usable open
space set aside in a subdivision comprises at least 10,000 square feet of space
that satisfies the definition of usable open space set forth in §
152.302 and if such usable open space is otherwise in compliance with the
provisions of §§
152.300 through
152.306.
   (E)   The setback requirements of §§
152.283 and
152.284 shall apply in cluster subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.287 ARCHITECTURALLY INTEGRATED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In any architecturally-integrated subdivision, the developer may
create lots and construct buildings without regard to any minimum lot size, lot
width, or setback restrictions except that:
      (1)   Lot boundary setback requirements shall apply where and to the
extent that the subdivided tract abuts land that is not part of the
subdivision; and
      (2)   Each lot must be of sufficient size and dimensions that it can
support the structure proposed to be located on it, consistent with all other
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The number of dwelling units in an architecturally integrated
subdivision may not exceed the maximum density authorized for the tract as
defined in the residential density section. (See §
152.281.)
   (C)   To the extent reasonably practicable, in residential subdivisions the
amount of land “saved” by creating lots that are smaller than the standards set
forth in §
152.280 shall be set aside as usable open space.
   (D)   The purpose of this section is to provide flexibility, consistent with
the public health and safety and without increasing overall density, to the
developer who subdivides property and constructs buildings on the lots created
in accordance with a unified and coherent plan of development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.288 DENSITY ON LOTS WHERE PORTION DEDICATED TO TOWN.
   (A)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, if any portion of a
tract lies within an area designated on any officially adopted town plan as
part of a proposed public park, greenway, or bikeway, and before the tract is
developed, the owner of the tract, with the concurrence of the town, dedicates
to the town that portion of the tract so designated, then, when the remainder
of the tract (the remainder) is developed for residential purposes, the
permissible density at which the remainder may be developed shall be calculated
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   If the proposed use of the remainder is a single-family detached
residential subdivision, then the lots in such subdivision may be reduced in
accordance with the provisions of §§
152.286 and
152.287 except that the developer need not set aside usable open space to the
extent that an equivalent amount of land has previously been dedicated to the
town in accordance with division (A) above.
   (C)   If the proposed use of the remainder is a two-family or multifamily
project, then the permissible density at which the remainder may be developed
shall be calculated by regarding the dedicated portion of the original lot as
if it were still part of the lot proposed for development.
   (D)   If the portion of the tract that remains (i.e., the remainder) after
dedication as provided in division (A) is divided in such a way that the
resultant parcels are intended for future subdivision or development, then each
of the resultant parcels shall be entitled to its prorated share of the density
bonus provided for in divisions (B) and (C) above.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.289 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Compliance. All fences and walls shall comply with the requirements of
this section unless specifically approved as part of a special or conditional
use permit or variance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section shall be to allow fences within
districts which are architecturally compatible with each other, while
preserving the flexibility of fences in the rural areas.
   (C)   Fence and wall requirements in residential zoning districts. Fences
and walls in residential zoning districts and/or on residential properties
shall conform to the following provisions.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this division (C), fences, walls, and
similar structures not exceeding six feet in height may be constructed along
any property line located within a residential zoning district or on a
residential property.
      (2)   Fences, walls, and similar structures not exceeding six feet in
height may encroach into the rear or side setback provided the lot does not
abut a golf course or a lake. Fences, walls, and similar structures shall not
encroach into a required buffer unless such fence, wall, or similar structure
has been designed and approved as part of the buffer.
      (3)   (a)   Swimming pool fences shall be constructed in accordance with
the State Building Code and shall conform to the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Pools built prior to the effective date of this section that
have not been enclosed with a fence shall be fenced and any such fencing may
encroach up to 20% into any adjacent setback, provided that any fence
encroaching pursuant to this division (C) shall be constructed out of wrought
iron or picket-style fencing.
      (4)   If the rear lot line of a property borders on the side property
line of an adjacent property, any fence constructed along the rear property
line shall be no lower than six feet along the common property contiguous to
any side property line.
      (5)   Fences, walls, and other similar structures not exceeding four feet
in height may encroach into any front setback. The four-foot limitation shall
apply to driveway entrance columns, but the total height of said columns with
light fixtures shall not exceed five feet in height.
      (6)   The existing ground elevation shall not be modified or elevated in
any manner so as to construct a fence, wall, or other similar structure to
increase the maximum allowable height of the fence unless such modification or
elevation of existing ground is proposed and approved as part of a required
buffer.
      (7)   Fences, walls, and other similar structures shall not exceed four
feet in height when abutting a defined front yard of an adjacent property.
      (8)   Fences, walls, and other similar structures in the front yard are
discouraged and must be:
         (a)   Located at least two feet from the right-of-way and no closer
than two feet from the inside of the edge of the sidewalk;
         (b)   Less than 60% opaque; and
         (c)   Be designed as picket or wrought iron style fencing (chain link
and chicken wire fencing is expressly prohibited).
      (9)   On corner lots, a ten-foot setback from the side street property
line is required for fences located in the side and rear yard when those fences
are greater than four feet in height.
   (D)   Fences and walls in non-residential zoning districts and/or on non-
residential properties.
      (1)   Fences, walls, and other similar structures not over six feet in
height may encroach into any required setback.
      (2)   Fences, walls, and similar structures shall not encroach into a
required buffer unless such fence, wall, or similar structure has been designed
and approved as part of the buffer.
   (E)   Residential and non-residential fences.
      (1)   Those fences or similar structures not authorized or approved as
provided in this Section are prohibited.
      (2)   The finished side of a fence or wall shall always face outward
toward the street or adjacent property. For the purposes of this section, the
following types of fences are allowed, depending upon the specific zoning
district in which they are located.
      (3)   Material substitution may be permitted by the Town Zoning
Administrator where the appearance and material would result in equal or better
performance.
      (4)   Allowable fence, wall, and other structure types include:
         (a)   Picket, provided that:
            1.   The fence shall be constructed of wood, vinyl, or composite
material and may be painted, stained, or unfinished; width of pickets shall not
be wider than four inches with a minimum of one inch between pickets;
            2.   Maximum height is four feet; and
            3.   Minimum number of horizontal rails is two.
         (b)   Post and rail (or split rail), provided that:
            1.   The wire is located on the inside of the fence;
            2.   The wire is muted in color (black, green, or brown);
            3.   The use of wire is optional; and
            4.   Chicken wire is not permitted.
         (c)   Wrought iron;
         (d)   Brick; and
         (e)   Stone, provided that:
            1.   Retaining walls higher than 36 inches shall not encroach into
the front setback for primary structures or into the rear and side setbacks for
accessory structures;
            2.   No retaining wall shall be closer than five feet to a property
line or right-of-way line; and
            3.   Retaining wall height shall be measured from the lowest
adjacent grade to the top of the wall.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND OPEN SPACE
§ 152.300 MINIPARKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to division (C) below, all residential developments shall
provide (through dedication or reservation; see §§
152.303 and
152.304) recreational areas in the form of miniparks in an amount equal to
0.0025 acres (108.9 square feet) per person expected to reside in that
development (as determined in accordance with division (B) below. Such
recreational areas shall be provided in addition to the open space areas
required by §
152.302. With the approval of the Board of Commissioners, a fee may be paid in
lieu of establishing some or all of the recreational facilities required
herein. Fees in-lieu shall be paid in accordance herewith.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, one-bedroom dwelling units shall be
deemed to house an average of 1.4 persons, two-bedroom units 2.2 persons,
three-bedroom units 3.2 persons, and units with four or more bedrooms 4.0
persons. In residential subdivisions that are not approved as architecturally
integrated subdivisions, each lot that is large enough for only a single
dwelling unit shall be deemed to house an average of 3.2 persons. Each lot that
is large enough to accommodate more than one dwelling unit shall be deemed to
house 2.2 persons for each dwelling unit that can be accommodated.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that miniparks must be of a
certain minimum size to be usable and that such miniparks will not serve the
intended purpose unless properly maintained; therefore, residential
developments that are small enough so that the amount of required minipark
space does not exceed 1,500 square feet are exempt from the provisions of this
section. However, as used in the foregoing sentence, the term development
refers to the entire project developed on a single tract or contiguous multiple
tracts under common ownership, regardless of whether the development is
constructed in phases or stages. In addition, subdivided residential
developments of less than 15 dwelling units shall also be exempt from the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.301 MINIPARKS, PURPOSE AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the minipark is to provide adequate active
recreational facilities to serve the residents of the immediately surrounding
neighborhood within the development.
      (2)   The following are illustrative of the types of facilities that
shall be deemed to serve active recreational needs and therefore count toward
satisfaction of the minipark requirements of this subchapter: tennis courts;
racquetball courts; swimming pools; sauna and exercise rooms; meeting or
activity rooms within clubhouses; basketball courts; swings; slides; and play
apparatuses.
   (B)   All playground and/or recreational equipment provided to satisfy the
requirements of this section shall be of a commercial grade and shall be
designed to be safe and functional without significant maintenance or repair
for at least ten years from the date of installation. The Board of
Commissioners may approve other standards for commercial grade playground
equipment and/or recreational equipment, provided that the Board determines
such alternate standard(s) will provide as good or better quality equipment as
the presumptive standards set forth herein. “Commercial grade equipment”
includes equipment that meets all applicable standards from:
      (1)   ASTM F1487-11, “Standard Consumer Safety Performance Specification
for Playground Equipment for Public Use;”
      (2)   ASTM F1292-13, “Standard Specification for Impact Attenuation of
Surface Systems Under and Around Playground Equipment;”
      (3)   ASTM F2075-15, “Standard Specification for Engineered Wood Fiber
for Use as a Playground Safety Surface Under and Around Playground Equipment;”
and
      (4)   ASTM F3012, “Standard for Loose-Fill Rubber for use as a Playground
Safety Surface Under and Around Playground Equipment.”
   (C)   Each development shall satisfy its minipark requirements by installing
the types of recreational facilities that are most likely to be suited to and
used by the age bracket of persons likely to reside in that development;
however, unless it appears that less than 5% of the residents of any
development are likely to be children under 12, then at least 15% of the
minipark must be satisfied by the construction of “tot lots” (i.e., areas
equipped with imaginative play apparatus oriented to younger children as well
as seating accommodations for parents).
   (D)   The total acreage of miniparks required by §
152.300 shall be divided into miniparks of not less than 2,000 square feet nor
more than 30,000 square feet.
   (E)   Miniparks shall be attractively landscaped and shall be provided with
sufficient natural or manmade screening or buffer areas to minimize any
negative impacts upon adjacent residences.
   (F)   Each minipark shall be centrally located and easily accessible so that
it can be conveniently and safely reached and used by those persons in the
surrounding neighborhood it is designed to service.
   (G)   Each minipark shall be constructed on land that is relatively flat,
dry, and capable of serving the purposes intended by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation, see
Chapter 95
§ 152.302 USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, every residential
development shall be developed so that at least 5% of the total area of the
development remains permanently as usable open space.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, USABLE OPEN SPACE means an area that is:
      (1)   Not encumbered with any substantial structure;
      (2)   Not devoted to use as a roadway, parking area, or sidewalk;
      (3)   Still in its natural or undisturbed state, as of the date
development began (if wooded), except for the cutting of trails for walking or
jogging, or, if not wooded at the time of development, is landscaped for ball
fields, picnic areas, or similar facilities, or is properly vegetated and
landscaped with the objective of creating a wooded area or other area that is
consistent with the objective set forth in division (4) below;
      (4)   Capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of informal and
unstructured recreation and relaxation;
      (5)   Legally and practicably accessible to the residents of the
development out of which the required open space is taken, or to the public if
dedication of the open space is required pursuant to §
152.304; and
      (6)   Consisting of land no more than 50% of which lies within a
floodplain or floodway as those terms are defined in §
152.405.
   (C)   Subdivided residential developments of less than 15 dwelling units are
exempt from the requirements of this section unless the town agrees that it
will accept an offer of dedication of such development’s open space, and in
that case, the offer of dedication shall be made (by the developer).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.303 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF RECREATIONAL AREAS AND OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
152.304, recreation facilities and usable open space required to be provided by
the developer in accordance with this subchapter shall not be dedicated to the
public but shall remain under the ownership and control of the developer (or
his, her, or their successor) or a homeowners’ association or similar
organization that satisfies the criteria established in §
152.305.
   (B)   The person or entity identified in division (A) above as having the
right of ownership and control over such recreational facilities and open space
shall be responsible for the continuing upkeep and proper maintenance of the
same.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.304 DEDICATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   If any portion of any lot proposed for residential development
lies within an area designated on an officially adopted recreation master plan
(or similar plan) such as a neighborhood park or part of the greenway system or
bikeway system, then the area so designated (not exceeding 5% of the total lot
area) shall be included as part of the area set aside to satisfy the
requirement of §
152.302.
      (2)   This area shall be dedicated to public use.
   (B)   If more than 5% of a lot proposed for residential development lies
within an area designated as provided in division (A) above, the town may
attempt to acquire the additional land in the following manner.
      (1)   The developer may be encouraged to resort to the procedures
authorized in §§
152.286 and
152.287 and to dedicate the common open space thereby created.
      (2)   The town may purchase or condemn the land.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.305 HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS.
   Homeowners’ associations or similar legal entities that, pursuant to §
152.303, are responsible for the maintenance and control of common areas,
including recreational facilities and open space, shall be established in such
a manner that:
      (A)   Provision for the establishment of the association or similar
entity is made before any lot in the development is sold or any building
occupied;
      (B)   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal authority
to maintain and exercise control over such common areas and facilities; and
      (C)   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from residents of the development to cover their proportionate
shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of such common
areas and facilities.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.306 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The requirements set forth in this subchapter concerning the amount,
size, location, and nature of recreational facilities and open space to be
provided in connection with residential developments are established by the
Board of Commissioners as standards that presumptively will result in the
provision of that amount of recreational activities and open space that is
consistent with officially adopted town plans.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes, however, that due to the
particular nature of a tract of land, or the nature of the facilities proposed
for installation, or other factors, the underlying objectives of this
subchapter may be achieved even though the standards are not adhered to with
mathematical precision; therefore, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) is authorized to
permit minor deviations from these standards whenever it determines that:
      (1)   The objectives underlying these standards can be met without strict
adherence to said standards; and
      (2)   Because of peculiarities in the developer’s tract of land or the
facilities proposed it would be unreasonable to require strict adherence to
these standards.
   (C)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) authorizes some deviation from the
standards set forth in this section the official record of action taken on the
development application shall contain a statement of the reasons for allowing
the deviation.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.307 PAYMENT IN-LIEU FEES.
   (A)   When the Board of Commissioners determines, upon the recommendation of
the town’s Parks and Recreation Director, that:
      (1)   The recreational facilities of a development required by this
section to establish recreational facilities could also be adequately met by
public recreational facilities constructed on town property that are located
close enough to such development to reasonably serve its residents; and
      (2)   Allowing a payment in-lieu of requiring on-site recreational
facilities is in the best interests of the citizens in the area be served, then
the Board of Commissioners may, but is not required to, authorize the developer
to pay a fee to the town’s recreation fund in lieu of providing some or all
required recreational facilities. For the purposes of this section, TOWN
PROPERTY means property that is owned by the town or under the long-term
control of the town through a lease or other agreement or that the town has
made plans to acquire or place under the long-term control of the town within a
reasonable time.
   (B)   The minimum amount of fee paid under this section shall be determined
by multiplying the acreage of recreational facilities that would otherwise be
required of the development by the dollar value per acre established in the
town’s miscellaneous fees and charges schedule. However, nothing herein shall
prevent the developer from paying a fee that exceeds the minimum fee
established herein, and the town’s willingness to allow a payment of fees in
lieu of the on-site provision of recreational facilities may depend upon the
developer’s agreement to pay fees in excess of the minimum.
   (C)   With respect to any development that is authorized by this section to
pay a fee in lieu of providing some or all of the required recreational
facilities, no use may be commenced, lot sold, or building occupied unless the
fee has been paid. If a development is intended to be sold or occupied on a
phase-by-phase basis, payment of the fee relating to each phase must first be
made.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 152.320 STREET CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   In all new subdivisions, streets that are dedicated to public use
shall be classified as provided in division (B) below.
      (1)   The classification shall be based upon the projected volume of
traffic to be carried by the street, stated in terms of the number of trips per
day.
      (2)   The number of dwelling units to be served by the street may be used
as a useful indicator of the number of trips but is not conclusive.
      (3)   If and/or when a subdivision street continues an existing street
that formerly terminated outside the subdivision, or if and/or when it is
expected that a subdivision street will be continued beyond the subdivision at
a future date, then the classification of the street will be based upon the
street in its entirety, both within and outside of the subdivision.
   (B)   The classification of streets shall be as follows.
      (1)   Minor. A street whose sole function is to provide access to
abutting properties, and serves, or is designed to serve, not more than nine
dwelling units, and is expected to or does handle up to 75 trips per day.
      (2)   Local. A street whose sole function is to provide access to
abutting properties, and serves, or is designed to serve, at least ten but no
more than 25 dwelling units, and is expected to or does handle between 75 and
200 trips per day.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac. A street that terminates in a vehicular turnaround.
      (4)   Subcollector. A street whose principal function is to provide
access to abutting properties, and is also designed to be used, or is used, to
connect minor and local streets with collector or arterial streets. Including
residences indirectly served through connecting streets, a subcollector serves,
or is designed to serve, at least 26 but not more than 100 dwelling units and
is expected to or does handle between 200 and 800 trips per day.
      (5)   Collector. A street whose principal function is to carry traffic to
and from minor, local, and subcollector streets to and from arterial streets,
and that may also provide direct access to abutting properties. A collector
serves or is designed to serve, directly or indirectly, more than 100 dwelling
units and is designed to be used or is used to carry more than 800 trips per
day.
      (6)   Arterial. A major street in the town’s street system that serves as
an avenue for the circulation of traffic into, out, or around the town, and
carries high volumes of traffic.
      (7)   Marginal access street. A street that is parallel to and adjacent
to an arterial street, and that is designed to:
         (a)   Provide access to abutting properties (so that these properties
are somewhat sheltered from the effects of the through traffic on the arterial
street); and
         (b)   Allow the flow of traffic on the arterial street is not impeded
by direct driveway access from a large number of abutting properties.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   Streets and parkways, see
Chapter 96
§ 152.321 ACCESS TO LOTS.
   Every lot shall have access that is sufficient to allow a reasonable means
of ingress and egress for emergency vehicles as well as for all those likely to
need or desire access to the property for its intended use.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.322 ACCESS TO ARTERIAL STREETS.
   If and/or when a major subdivision involves the creation of one or more new
streets that borders on or contains an existing or proposed arterial street,
then no direct driveway access may be provided from the lots within this
subdivision onto said arterial street.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.323 ENTRANCES TO STREETS.
   (A)   All driveway entrances and other openings onto streets within the
town’s planning jurisdiction shall be constructed so that:
      (1)   Vehicles can enter and exit from the lot in question without posing
any substantial danger to the occupants of such vehicles, pedestrians, or
vehicles traveling in abutting streets; and
      (2)   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized.
   (B)   (1)   Specifications for driveway entrances are set forth in §§
152.350 through
152.365.
      (2)   If driveway entrances and other openings onto streets are
constructed in accordance with the foregoing specifications and requirements,
then this shall be deemed prima facie evidence of compliance with the standards
set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the term PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE means that
the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or
Board of Commissioners) may (but is not required to) conclude from this
evidence alone that the proposed development complies with division (A).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.324 COORDINATION WITH SURROUNDING STREETS.
   (A)   The street system of a subdivision shall be coordinated with existing,
proposed, and anticipated streets outside the subdivision or outside the
portion of a single tract that is being divided into lots (hereinafter,
“surrounding streets”) as provided in this section.
   (B)   Collector streets shall intersect with surrounding collector or
arterial streets at safe and convenient locations.
   (C)   Subcollector, local, and minor residential streets shall connect with
surrounding streets where necessary to permit the convenient movement of
traffic between residential neighborhoods, to facilitate access to
neighborhoods by emergency service vehicles, or to comply with other sufficient
reasons, but connections shall not be permitted where the effect would
encourage the use of such streets by substantial through traffic.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever connections to anticipated or proposed surrounding
streets are required by this section, the street right-of-way shall be
extended, and the street shall be developed to the property line of the
subdivided property (or to the edge of the remaining undeveloped portion of a
single tract) at the point where the connection to the anticipated or proposed
street is expected.
      (2)   In addition, the permit-issuing authority may require temporary
turnarounds to be constructed at the end of such streets pending their
extension when such turnarounds appear necessary to facilitate the flow of
traffic or accommodate emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this division (D), no
temporary dead-end street in excess of 1,000 feet may be created unless other
practicable alternatives are not available.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.325 RELATIONSHIP OF STREETS TO TOPOGRAPHY.
   (A)   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. In
particular, streets shall be designed to facilitate the drainage and stormwater
runoff objectives set forth in §§
152.405 through
152.446, and the street grades shall conform as closely as practicable to the
original topography.
   (B)   As indicated in §
152.326, the maximum grade at any point on a street constructed without curb
and gutter shall be 6%. On streets constructed with curb and gutter the grade
shall not exceed 6% unless no other practicable alternative is available;
however, in no case may streets be constructed with grades that, in the
professional opinion of the Land Use Administrator, create a substantial danger
to the public safety.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.326 STREET WIDTH, SIDEWALK, AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)    Street rights-of-way are designed and developed to serve several
functions including to carry motor vehicle traffic, and in some cases, allow
on-street parking; to provide a safe and convenient passageway for pedestrian
traffic; and to serve as an important link in the town’s drainage system. To
fulfill these objectives, all public streets shall be constructed to meet the
standards set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The following classifications of streets may be constructed with six-
foot-wide shoulders and drainage swales on either side in lieu of curb and
gutter, so long as the street grade does not exceed a grade of 6%. Such streets
shall be constructed to meet the criteria indicated in the table that follows
as well as specifications referenced in §
152.306. No sidewalks shall be required.
 
Street Type  Minimum (R-O-W) Width (in feet) Minimum Pavement Width
                                             (in feet)
Local        45                              18
Minor        45                              18
Subcollector 50                              20
 
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) above, all streets
shall be constructed with curb and gutter, and shall conform to the other
requirements of this division (C).
      (2)   Only standard 90-degree curb may be used, except that roll-type
curb shall be permitted along minor and local streets within residential
subdivisions.
      (3)   Street pavement width shall be measured from curb face to curb face
where 90-degree curb is used, and from the center of the curb where roll-type
curb is used.
 
Street Type  Minimum R-O-W Minimum Pavement Sidewalk Width
             (in feet)     (in feet)        (in feet)
Collector    50            34               One side
Local        40            24               One side
Minor        40            20               None
Subcollector 50            26               One side
 
   (D)   Sidewalks required in division (C) above shall only be so required
when the development is within a business, or office and institutional
development. The sidewalk requirement shall apply to residential development
only where the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) determines that it is in the best
interests of the public health and safety that sidewalks be installed. The
sidewalks required by this section shall be at least four feet in width and
constructed according to the specifications set forth in §§
152.350 through
152.365, except that the permit-issuing authority may permit the installation
of walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it concludes that
such walkways would:
      (1)   Serve the residents of the development as adequately as concrete
sidewalks; and
      (2)   Be more environmentally desirable or more in keeping with the
overall design of the development.
   (E)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) finds that a means of pedestrian
access is necessary from the subdivision to schools, parks, playgrounds, or
other roads or facilities and that such access is not conveniently provided by
sidewalks adjacent to the streets, the developer may be required to reserve an
unobstructed easement of at least ten feet in width to provide such access.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.327 GENERAL LAYOUT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Subcollector, local, and minor residential streets shall be curved
whenever practicable to the extent necessary to avoid conformity of lot
appearance.
   (B)   Cul-de-sacs and loop streets are encouraged so that through traffic on
residential streets is minimized. Similarly, to the extent practicable,
driveway access to collector streets shall be minimized to facilitate the free
flow of traffic and avoid traffic hazards.
   (C)   All permanent dead-end streets (as opposed to temporary dead-end
streets, see §
152.301, shall be developed as cul-de-sacs in accordance with the standards set
forth in division (D) below. Except where no other practicable alternative is
available, such streets may not extend more than 550 feet (measured to the
center of the turnaround).
   (D)   The rights-of-way of a cul-de-sac shall have a radius of 50 feet. The
radius of the paved portion of the turnaround (measured to the outer edge of
the pavement) shall be 35 feet, and the pavement width shall be 12 feet without
curb and gutter or 18 feet with curb and gutter. The unpaved center of the
turnaround area shall be landscaped.
   (E)   Half-streets (i.e., streets of less than the full required rights-of-
way and pavement width) shall not be permitted except where such streets, when
combined with a similar street (developed previously or simultaneously) on
property adjacent to the subdivision, creates or comprises a street that meets
the right-of-way and pavement requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Streets shall be laid out so that residential blocks do not exceed
1,000 feet, unless no other practicable alternative is available.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.328 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles,
and no two streets may intersect at less than 60 degrees.
      (2)   Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one point, unless
the Land Use Administrator certifies to the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) that such an
intersection can be constructed with no extraordinary danger to public safety.
   (B)   Whenever possible, proposed intersections along one side of a street
shall coincide with existing or proposed intersections on the opposite side of
such street. In any event, where a centerline offset (job) occurs at an
intersection, the distance between centerline of the intersecting streets shall
be not less than 150 feet.
   (C)   Except when no other alternative is practicable or legally possible,
no two streets may intersect with any other street on the same side at a
distance of less than 400 feet measured from centerline to centerline of the
intersecting street. When the intersected street is an arterial, the distance
between intersecting streets shall be at least 1,000 feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.329 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Construction and design standards and specifications for streets, sidewalks,
and curbs and gutters shall be designated by the Land Use Administrator, and
contained in §§
152.075 through
152.082,
152.336,
152.350 through
152.365,
152.466(F) and (G),
152.510 through
152.523, and
152.535 through 152.550 where appropriate.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.330 PUBLIC STREETS AND PRIVATE ROADS IN SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all lots created
after the effective date of this section shall abut a public street at least to
the extent necessary to comply with the access requirement set forth in §
152.321.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (A), the term PUBLIC STREET includes
a preexisting public street as well as a street created by the subdivider that
meets the public street standards of this chapter, and is dedicated for public
use.
      (3)   Unless the recorded plat of a subdivision clearly shows a street to
be private, the recording of such a plat shall constitute an offer of
dedication of such street.
   (B)   Architecturally integrated residential subdivisions containing 25 or
more dwelling units may be developed with private roads that do not meet the
public street and sidewalk standards of this chapter so long as:
      (1)   The proposed development will have direct access onto a public
street or, if the tract has access to a public street only via a private road,
then such private road is improved to public street standards;
      (2)   No road intended to be private is planned to be extended to serve
property outside that development; and
      (3)   Compliance with the standards applicable to non-subdivided
developments set forth herein.
   (C)   Architecturally integrated subdivisions containing any number of
dwelling units may be developed with private roads that do meet the public
street and sidewalk standards of this chapter but that are not intended for
dedication to the public so long as:
      (1)   The proposed development will have direct access onto a public
street or, if the tract has access to a public street only via a private road,
such private road is improved to public street standards;
      (2)   No road intended to be private is planned or expected to be
extended to serve property outside the development; and
      (3)   The subdivider demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Board of Commissioners that the private roads will be properly maintained.
   (D)   A subdivision in which the access requirement of §
152.321 is satisfied by a private road that meets neither the public street
standards nor the standards set forth in §
152.321 may be developed so long as, since the effective date of this chapter,
not more than three lots have been created out of that same tract.
      (1)   The intent of this division (D)(1) is primarily to allow the
creation of not more than three lots developed for single-family residential
purposes; therefore, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator,
Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may not approve any subdivision
served by a private road authorized by this division (D)(1) in which one or
more of the lots thereby created is intended for two-family or multifamily
residential use or any other residential or nonresidential use that would tend
to generate more traffic than that customarily generated by three single-family
residences.
      (2)   To ensure that the intent of this division (D)(2) is not subverted,
the permit-issuing authority may, among other possible options, require that
the approved plans show the types and locations of buildings on each lot, that
the lots in a residential subdivision served by a private road be smaller than
the permissible size of lots on which two-family or multifamily developments
could be located, or that restrictive covenants limiting the use of the
subdivided property in accordance with this section be recorded before final
plat approval. If the improvement is an amenity, not required by this chapter,
or is provided in response to a condition imposed by the permit-issuing
authority, then the developer may utilize the provisions of §
152.055.
   (E)   Final plats that show lots served by private roads may not be recorded
unless the final plat contains the following notations:
      (1)   “Further subdivision of any lot shown on this plat as served by a
private road may be prohibited by the Pinebluff Land Use Ordinance;” or
      (2)   “The policy of the Town of Pinebluff is that, if the town improves
streets that were never constructed to the standards required in the Land Use
Ordinance for dedicated streets, and on which 75% of the dwelling units were
constructed after the effective date of this chapter, then 100% of the costs of
such improvements shall be assessed to abutting landowners.”
   (F)    The recorded plat of any subdivision that includes a private road
shall clearly state that such road is a private road. Further, the initial
purchases of a newly created lot served by a private road shall be furnished by
the seller with a disclosure statement outlining the maintenance
responsibilities for the road.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.331 ROAD AND SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS IN UNSUBDIVIDED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Within unsubdivided developments, all private roads and access
ways shall be designed and constructed to facilitate the safe and convenient
movement of motor vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Width of roads, use of curb and gutter, and paving specifications
shall be determined by the provisions of this chapter dealing with parking (§§
152.460 through
152.471) and drainage (§§
152.414 through
152.417).
      (3)   To the extent not otherwise covered in the foregoing sections, and
to the extent that the requirements set forth in this subchapter for
subdivisions may be relevant to the roads in unsubdivided developments, the
requirements of this subchapter may be applied to satisfy the standard set
forth in the first sentence of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a road in an unsubdivided development connects two or
more subcollector, collector, or arterial streets in such a manner that any
substantial volume of through traffic is likely to make use of this road, such
road shall be constructed in accordance with the standards applicable to
subdivision streets and shall be dedicated.
      (2)   In other cases when roads in unsubdivided developments within the
town are constructed in accordance with the specifications for subdivision
streets, the town may accept an offer of dedication of such streets.
   (C)   (1)   In all unsubdivided residential development, sidewalks shall be
provided linking dwelling units with other dwelling units, the public street,
an on-site activity centers such as parking areas, laundry facilities, and
recreational areas and facilities.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, sidewalks shall not be required
where pedestrians have access to a road that serves not more than nine dwelling
apartments.
   (D)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) finds that a means of pedestrian
access is necessary from an unsubdivided development to schools, parks,
playgrounds, or other roads or facilities and that such access is not
conveniently provided by sidewalks adjacent to the roads, the developer may be
required to reserve an unobstructed easement of at least ten feet to provide
such access.
   (E)   The sidewalks required by this section shall be at least four feet
wide and constructed according to the specifications set forth in §§
152.350 through
152.365 except that the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may permit the installation of
walkways constructed with other suitable materials when it concludes that such
walkways:
      (1)   Would serve the residents of the development as adequately as
concrete sidewalks; and
      (2)   Could be more environmentally desirable or more in keeping with the
overall design of the development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.332 ATTENTION TO DISABLED IN STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Whenever curb and gutter construction is used on public streets,
wheelchair ramps for the disabled shall be provided at intersections and other
major points of pedestrian flow.
   (B)   Wheelchair ramps and depressed curbs shall be constructed in
accordance with published standards of the State Building Code and any other
applicable standards.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.333 STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   Street names shall be assigned by the developer subject to the
approval of the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners).
      (2)   Proposed streets that are obviously in alignment with existing
streets shall be given the same name.
      (3)   Newly created streets shall be given names that neither duplicate
nor are phonetically similar to existing streets within the town’s planning
jurisdiction, regardless of the use of different suffixes.
   (B)   Street names shall include a suffix such as the following:
      (1)   Circle. A short street that returns to itself;
      (2)   Court or Place. A cul-de-sac or dead-end street;
      (3)   Loop. A street that begins at the intersection with one street and
circles back to end at another intersection with the same street; and
      (4)   Street. All public streets not designated by another suffix.
   (C)   Building numbers shall by assigned by the town or other authority with
jurisdiction, such as the county’s 911 authority.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.334 BRIDGES.
   All bridges shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the state’s Department of Transportation, except that bridges
on roads not intended for public dedication may be approved if designed by a
licensed architect or engineer.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.335 UTILITIES.
   Utilities installed in public rights-of-way or along private roads shall
conform to the requirements set forth in §§
152.380 through
152.394.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.336 SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES.
   All driveway entrances and other openings onto town-maintained streets
shall, at a minimum, conform to the requirements set forth in the “Policy on
Street and Driveway Access to North Carolina Highway,” by the state’s
Department of Transportation.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREET DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.350 DESIGN SPEED, SIGHT DISTANCE, CENTERLINE RADIUS.
 
             Design Speed Minimum Sight Distance on Minimum Centerline Radius
             (mph)        Vertical Curve            (in feet)
                          (in feet)
Minor        25           150                       150
Local        25           150                       150
Subcollector 30           200                       250
Collector    35           200                       250
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.351 CUT AND FILL SLOPES.
   Cut and fill slopes on any street right-of-way may not exceed 2:1.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.352 SIGHT DISTANCES AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   At no stop intersections, the intersection shall be constructed so
that a person standing at location on the centerline of any street 90 feet from
the intersection of the street centerlines has an unobstructed view to a point
located on the centerline of the intersecting street 90 feet (in either
direction) from the intersection of the street centerlines.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, at stop intersections, the intersection
shall be constructed so that a person standing ten feet back of the
intersection of right-of-way lines on the stop street has an unobstructed view
to a point on the right of way line of the intersecting through street located
70 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
   (C)   At stop intersections where a residential street intersects with a
state maintained primary road, the intersection shall be constructed so that a
person standing 30 feet back of the intersection of right of way lines on the
stop street has an unobstructed view to a point on the centerline of the
through street located 150 feet from the intersection of the street right-of-
way lines.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.353 RADIUS AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   At street intersections, the intersections of the paved surfaces shall be
rounded with a minimum radius. Where streets intersect at less than right
angles, a greater radius may be required.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.354 CLEARING AND GRUBBING.
   (A)   Clearing and grubbing shall be performed within the limits shown on
the plans.
   (B)   All timber, brush, roots, stumps, trees, or other vegetation cut
during the clearing operations shall become the contractor’s responsibility to
dispose of, and shall be either removed from the project by him, her, or them,
or satisfactorily disposed of on-site.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   New site construction procedures, see §
91.19
   Procedure for clearing litter, see §
91.18
§ 152.355 GRADING AND COMPACTING.
   (A)   Streets shall be graded in accordance with the lines and grade set by
the engineer.
   (B)   Before placing curb and gutter of base on the graded subgrade, the
subgrade shall be compacted to 100% ASSHO T99 for a depth of six inches and
then shall be proof rolled in the presence of the engineer.
   (C)   Places that are found to be loose, or soft, or composed of unsuitable
materials, whether in the subgrade or below it, must be dug out and refilled
with suitable material.
   (D)   All embankments or fills shall be made in one-foot horizontal lifts of
suitable material.
   (E)   The fill shall be rolled with a sheepsfoot roller after each lift,
followed by a wheel roller, each weighing not less than eight tons.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.356 STREET BASE.
   (A)   Base course for streets shall generally be eight inches thick, unless
otherwise directed by the Public Works Director, and shall be crushed stone
conforming to DOT Type ABC stone.
   (B)   The stone base course shall be placed in four-inch layers, watered as
necessary, and compacted to 100% ASSHO T99.
   (C)   The contractor shall be responsible for keeping the stone base free of
contamination from clay or other foreign materials.
   (D)   Handling and placement of stone base shall all be in accordance with
DOT specifications.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.357 STREET SURFACES.
   The asphalt surface course shall meet DOT specifications for Type I 2
asphalt. The asphalt shall be placed in one two-inch layer, and shall be
handled and placed in accordance with DOT specifications.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.358 PAVEMENT SECTION VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Sections
152.355 through
152.357 set the standards that shall apply under normal soils conditions.
However, where soils are unusually good or unusually unstable, the Public Works
Director may allow or require the developer to have soil tests run and a
pavement design made by a qualified soils engineer.
   (B)   Under these circumstances, the Public Works Director may allow
pavement sections constructed to lesser standards than those set forth above
(for good soils) or require pavement sections constructed to greater standards
than those set forth above (for unstable soils).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.359 STREET CROSS-SECTIONS.
   Streets shall be constructed and utilities located in accordance with
Standard Drawing No. 6 or 7.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.360 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   The concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed according to the
lines and grades established by the engineer.
   (B)   The concrete shall meet the state highway requirements.
   (C)   The curb and gutter shall be 30 inches wide, and shall have a vertical
curb face.
   (D)   The forms shall be of metal, free of marks or kinks, and shall be
rigidly held in position.
   (E)   The engineer shall approve the positioning of the forms before
concrete is poured.
   (F)   The concrete shall be placed in the forms in a manner to prevent
segregation, and tampered or vibrated sufficiently to prevent honeycombs.
   (G)   The concrete shall be finished smooth and even by means of rollers or
floats.
   (H)   Expansion joints shall be provided every 30 feet, and false joints
every ten feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.361 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalk construction shall be similar to street construction, with
subgrade compacted to 100% AAASHO T99.
   (B)   Concrete sidewalks shall be four inches thick (increasing to six
inches thick at driveway entrances), and shall be at least four feet wide.
   (C)   Expansion joints shall be provided every 30 feet; false joints at ten
feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.362 WHEELCHAIR RAMPS.
   Where required, wheelchair ramps shall be constructed.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
Cross-reference:
   Attention to disabled in street and sidewalk construction, see §
152.332
§ 152.363 STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL.
   (A)   All stormwater drainage facilities other than building foundation and
roof drain pipes shall be constructed of materials that meet minimum standards
contained in the current version of the state’s Department of Transportation’s
Standard Specifications for Roads and Structures, except that culverts
described in §§ 1032-1(A) (Plain Concrete Culvert Pipe) and 1033-7 (Vitrified
Clay Culvert Pipe) shall not be permitted.
   (B)   All stormwater drainage facilities shall be designed and installed in
accordance with the state’s Department of Transportation’s specifications and
the standard specifications and drawings contained herein. In case of conflict,
the more stringent specifications shall prevail.
   (C)   With the exception of building foundation and roof drain pipes, all
stormwater drainage culverts, when installed, shall have a minimum cover of 12
inches, unless the Town Engineer and Public Works Director allow less extensive
cover.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.364 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Road shoulders, swales, back-of-curbs, and cut and fill banks shall be
completely dressed up the contractor and seeded as soon as possible.
   (B)   The seeding mixture and application rate shall be approved by the
county’s Erosion Control Officer or other person designated by the county to
enforce erosion control and sedimentation rules.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.365 ENTRANCES ONTO STREETS.
   (A)   All vehicle entrances onto streets within the town’s planning
jurisdiction shall be covered with a hard surface from the point of entrance
onto the street to a point not less than ten feet beyond the right-of-way
boundary line and shall be constructed such that any gravel or crushed stone
surface located beyond the hard surface covering shall be reasonably retained
on the lot.
   (B)   This section shall be applied to all development permit application
submitted after April 1, 2022.
(Res. 2022-01 passed 3-17-2022) Penalty, see §
152.999
UTILITIES
§ 152.380 UTILITY OWNERSHIP AND EASEMENT RIGHTS.
   In any case in which a developer installs or causes the installation of
water, sewer, electrical power, telephone, or cable television facilities and
intends that such facilities shall be owned, operated, or maintained by a
public utility or any entity other than the developer, the developer shall
transfer to the utility or entity the necessary ownership or easement rights to
enable the utility or entity to operate and maintain such facilities.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.381 LOTS SERVED BY TOWN/COUNTY/MOWASA OWNED WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Whenever it is legally possible and practicable in terms of topography
to connect a lot to town or county water and sewer lines by running a
connection line not more than 200 feet from the lot to such lines, then no use
requiring water or sewage disposal service may be made of such lot unless
connection is made to such line.
   (B)   Connection to such water or sewer line is not legally possible if, to
make connection with such line by a connection line that does not exceed 200
feet in length, it is necessary to run the connection line over property not
owned by the owner of the property to be served by the connection, and after
diligent effort, the easement necessary to run the connection line cannot
reasonably be obtained.
   (C)   For purposes of this subchapter, a lot is SERVED by a town or county
owned water or sewer line if connection is required by this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.382 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be served
by a sewage disposal system that is adequate to accommodate the reasonable
needs of such use or subdivision, and that follows all applicable health
regulations of the county.
   (B)   Adjacent lots may be used for a septic system for an adjoining lot
where both lots are in common ownership.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.383 DETERMINING COMPLIANCE WITH § 152.382.
   (A)   Determination of compliance with §
152.382 shall be determined by the Division of Environmental Management,
county’s Health Department, the Public Works Director, the Land Use
Administrator or any combination thereof. A development permit may be issued
based upon a review of the basic design elements of the proposed sewage
disposal system to determine compliance with §
152.382; however, construction of such system may not be commenced until
detailed plans and specifications have been reviewed by the agencies/parties
mentioned in this division (A), and any appropriate permits issued by such
agencies/parties.
   (B)   The type of development and relevant certifying agency are listed as
follows.
      (1)   If the use is located on a lot that is served by a town or county
sewer system or previously approved, privately owned package treatment plant,
and the use can be served by a simple connection to the system (single
residence) rather than the construction of an internal collection system
(shopping center), no further certification is necessary.
      (2)   If the use (other than a subdivision) is located on a lot that is
served by a town or county sewer system but service to the use necessitates
construction of an internal collection system as in the case of a shopping
center, and the internal collection system is to be transferred to and
maintained by the town or county, then the public works director (typically the
Land Use Administrator) must certify to the town that the proposed internal
collection system meets the town’s or county’s specifications and will be
accepted by the town or county. A permit to construct must be obtained from the
Division of Environmental Management; the internal collection system is to be
privately maintained, the Public Works Director (typically the Land Use
Administrator) must certify that the proposed collection system is adequate.
      (3)   If the use (other than a subdivision) is to be served by a
privately-operated sewage treatment system not previously approved with 3,000
gallons or less design capacity, the effluent from which does not discharge to
surface waters, the county’s Health Department must certify to the town that
the proposed system complies with all applicable state and local health
regulations. The applicant must obtain a subsurface sewage disposal permit from
the county’s Health Department prior to issuance of a zoning permit.
      (4)   If the use (other than a subdivision) is to be served by a
privately-operated sewage treatment system (not previously approved) that has a
design capacity of more than 3,000 gallons or that discharges effluent into
surface waters, the Division of Environmental Management must certify to the
town that the proposed system complies with all applicable state regulations. A
permit to contract and a permit to discharge must be obtained from the DEM.
      (5)   If the proposed use is a subdivision, the following provisions
apply.
         (a)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by simple
connection to existing town or county lines or lines of a previously approved
private system, no further certification is necessary.
         (b)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by the town or
county system but the developer will be responsible for installing the
necessary additions to the town system, the Land Use Administrator must certify
to the town that the proposed system meets the town’s or county’s
specifications and will be accepted by the same. A permit to construct must be
issued from the Division of Environmental Management.
         (c)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by a sewage
treatment system that has not been approved, that has a design capacity of
3,000 gallons or less, and that does not discharge into surface waters: the
county’s Health Department must certify that the proposed system complies with
all applicable state and local health regulations. If each lot within the
subdivision is to be served by a separate site disposal system, then the
county’s Health Department must certify that each lot shown on a major
subdivision preliminary plat can properly be served, and each lot and a major
or minor subdivision final plat can be served by an on-site disposal system.
         (d)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by a privately
operated sewage treatment system (not previously approved) that has a design
capacity in excess of 3,000 gallons or that discharges effluent into surface
waters, the Division of Environmental Management must certify that the proposed
system complies with all applicable state regulations. A permit to construct
and a permit to discharge must be obtained from the DEM.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.384 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision shall be served by a
water supply system that is adequate to accommodate the reasonable needs of
such use or subdivision, and that follows all applicable health regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.385 DETERMINING COMPLIANCE WITH § 152.384.
   (A)   (1)   Primary responsibility for determining whether a proposed
development will comply with the standard set forth in §
152.384 often lies with an agency other than the town, and the developer must
comply with the detailed standards and specifications of such other agency.
      (2)   The relevant agencies are listed in division (B) below. Whenever
any such agency requires detailed construction or design drawings before giving
its official approval to the proposed water supply system, the authority
issuing a permit under this chapter may rely upon a preliminary review by such
agency of the basic design elements of the proposed water supply system to
determine compliance with this section. However, construction of such system
may not be commenced until the detailed plans and specifications have been
reviewed and any appropriate permits issued by such agency.
   (B)   The type of development and relevant certifying agency are listed as
follows.
      (1)   If the use is located on a lot that is served by the town water
system or a previously approved, privately owned public water supply system and
the use can be served by a simple connection to the system (as in the case of a
single-family residence) rather than the construction of an internal
distribution system (as in the case of a shopping center complex), no further
certification is necessary.
      (2)   If the use (other than a subdivision) is located on a lot that is
served by the town water system but service to the use necessitates
construction of an internal distribution system (as in the case of a shopping
center or apartment complex) and:
         (a)   The use (other than subdivision) is located on a lot that is
served by the town water system but service to the use necessitates
construction of an internal distribution system (as in the case of a shopping
center or apartment complex): the public works director must certify to the
town that the proposed internal distribution system meets town specifications
and will be accepted by the town; and
         (b)   The internal distribution system is to be privately maintained,
the Land Use Administrator must certify that the proposed collection system is
adequate.
      (3)   If the use (other than a subdivision) is located on a lot not
served by the town system or a previously approved, privately owned public
water supply system and:
         (a)   The use is to be served by a privately owned public water supply
system that has not previously been approved: the Division of Health Services
must certify that the proposed system complies with all applicable state and
federal regulations. The Division of Environmental Management must also approve
the plans if the water source is a well and the system has a design capacity of
100,000 gallons per day or is located in certain areas designated by DEM. The
Public Works Director must also approve the distribution for possible future
addition to the town system.
         (b)   The use is to be served by some other source (such as an
individual well): the county’s Health Department must certify that the proposed
system meets all applicable state and local regulations.
      (4)   If the proposed use is a subdivision, and:
         (a)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by simple
connection to existing town lines or lines of a previously approved public
water supply system, no further action is necessary;
         (b)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by the town system
but the developer will be responsible for installing the necessary additions to
such system, the Land Use Administrator must certify to the town that the
proposed system meets town specifications and will be accepted by the town; and
         (c)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by a privately
owned public water supply system that has not previously been approved: the
Division of Health Services must certify that the proposed system complies with
all applicable state and federal regulations. The Division of Environmental
Management must also approve the plans if the water source is a well and the
system has a design capacity of 100,000 gallons per day or is located within
certain areas designated by the DEM. The Land Use Administrator must also
approve the distribution lines for possible future additions to the town
system.
         (d)   Lots within the subdivision are to be served by individual
wells, the county’s Health Department must certify to the town that each lot
intended to be served by a well can be served in accordance with applicable
health regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.386 LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all public streets, sidewalks, and
other common areas or facilities in subdivisions created after the effective
date of this chapter shall be sufficiently illuminated to ensure the security
of property and the safety of persons using such streets, sidewalks, and other
common areas or facilities.
   (B)   To the extent that fulfillment of the requirement established in
division (A) above would normally require street lights installed along public
streets, this requirement shall be applicable only to subdivisions located
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   All roads, driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, and other common areas
and facilities in un-subdivided developments shall be sufficiently illuminated
to ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using such roads,
driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, and other common areas and facilities.
   (D)   All entrances and exits in substantial buildings used for
nonresidential purposes and in two-family or multifamily residential
developments containing more than four dwelling units shall be adequately
lighted to ensure the safety or persons and security of the buildings.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.387 EXCESSIVE ILLUMINATION.
   Lighting within any lot that unnecessarily illuminates any other lot and/or
that substantially interferes with the use or enjoyment of such other lot is
prohibited. Lighting unnecessarily illuminates another lot if it clearly
exceeds the standard set forth in §
152.386, or if the standards forth in §
152.386 could reasonably be achieved in a manner that would not substantially
interfere with the use or enjoyment of neighboring properties.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.388 ELECTRIC POWER.
   (A)   Every principal use, and every lot within a subdivision, shall have
available a source of electric power adequate to accommodate of reasonable
needs.
   (B)   Compliance with this requirement shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot that is
served by an existing power line and the use can be served by a simple
connection to such power line (as opposed to a more complex distribution system
such as would be required in an apartment complex or shopping center), then no
further certification is needed.
      (2)   If the use is a subdivision or is not located on a lot served by an
existing power line, or if a substantial internal distribution system will be
necessary, then the electric utility service provider must review the proposed
plans and certify to the town that it can provide service that is adequate to
meet the needs of the proposed use, and of every lot within the proposed
subdivision.
      (3)   All major subdivisions shall be required to utilize underground
electric distribution systems, except where the electric utility provider
certifies to the town that the same is not practicable.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.389 TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   (A)   Every principal use and every lot within a subdivision must have
available to it a telephone service cable adequate to accommodate the
reasonable needs of such use and of every lot within such subdivision.
   (B)   Compliance with this requirement shall be determined as follows.
      (1)   If the use is not a subdivision and is located on a lot that is
served by an existing telephone line, and the use can be served by a simple
connection to such telephone line (as opposed to a more complex distribution
system, such would be required in an apartment complex or shopping center),
then no further certification is necessary.
      (2)   If the use is a subdivision or is not located on lot served by an
existing telephone line, or if a substantial internal distribution system will
be necessary, then the telephone utility company must review the proposed plans
and certify to the town that it can provide service that is adequate to meet
the needs of the proposed use, and of every lot within the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.390 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   All electric power lines (not to include transformers or enclosures
containing electrical equipment including, but not limited to, switches,
meters, or capacitors which may be pad mounted), telephone, gas distribution,
and cable television lines in subdivisions constructed after the effective date
of this subchapter shall be placed underground in accordance with the
specifications and policies of the respective utility service providers, and
shall be located in accordance with Standard Drawing No. 6 or 7.
   (B)   Whenever an non-subdivided development is hereafter constructed on a
lot that is undeveloped on the effective date of this subchapter, all electric
power, telephone, gas distribution, and cable television lines installed to
serve the development that are located on the development site outside of a
previously existing public right-of-way shall be placed underground in
accordance with the specifications and policies of the respective utility
companies.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.391 UTILITIES TO BE CONSISTENT WITH INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever it can be reasonably anticipated that utility facilities
constructed in one development will be extended to serve other adjacent or
nearby developments, such utility facilities (e.g., water or sewer lines) shall
be located and constructed so that extensions can be made conveniently and
without undue burden, expense, or unnecessary duplication of service.
   (B)   All utility facilities shall be constructed in such a manner as to
minimize interference with pedestrian or vehicular traffic, and in such a
manner as to facilitate maintenance without undue damage to improvements or
facilities located within the development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.392 AS-BUILD DRAWINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a developer installs or causes to be installed any utility
line(s) in any public right-of-way, the developer shall, as soon as practicable
after installation is complete and before acceptance of any water or sewer
line, furnish the town with a copy of a drawing that shows the exact location
of such utility line(s).
   (B)   Such drawings must be verified as accurate by the utility service
provider.
   (C)   Compliance with this requirement shall be a condition of the continued
validity of the permit authorizing such development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.393 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Every development (subdivided or un-subdivided) that is served by a
public water system shall include a system of fire hydrants sufficient to
provide adequate fire protection for the buildings located, or intended to be
located, within such development.
   (B)   (1)   The presumption established by this chapter is that to satisfy
the standard set forth in division (A) above, fire hydrants must be located so
that all parts of every building within the development may be served by a
hydrant by laying not more than 500 feet of hose connected to such hydrant.
      (2)   The Fire Chief, however, may authorize or require a deviation from
this standard if in his, her, or their professional opinion another arrangement
more satisfactorily complies with the standard set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall determine the precise location of all fire
hydrants, subject to the other provisions of this section. In general, fire
hydrants shall be placed six feet behind the curb line of publicly dedicated
streets that have curb and gutter.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall determine the design standards of all hydrants
based on fire flow needs. Unless otherwise specified by the Fire Chief, all
hydrants shall have two two-and-one-half-inch hose connections and one four-
and-one-half-inch connection. The two-and-one-half-inch hose connections and
shall be located a least 21-and-one-half-inches from the ground level. All
hydrant threads shall be nation standard threads.
   (E)   Water lines that serve hydrants shall be at least six-inch lines, and,
unless no other practicable alternative is available, no such lines shall be
dead-end lines.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.394 SITES FOR AND SCREENING OF DUMPSTERS.
   (A)    Every development that, under the town’s solid waste collection
policies, is or will be required to provide one or more dumpsters for solid
waste collection shall provide a site for such dumpsters that are:
      (1)   Located so as to facilitate collection and minimize any negative
impact on persons occupying the development site, neighboring properties, or
public rights-of-way; and
      (2)   Constructed according to specifications established by the Land Use
Administrator to allow for collection without damage to the development site or
the collection vehicle.
   (B)   All such dumpsters shall be screened if and to the extent that, in the
absence of screening, they would be clearly visible to:
      (1)   Persons located within any dwelling unit on residential property
other than that where the dumpster is located;
      (2)   Occupants, customers, or other invitees located within any building
or nonresidential property other than that where the dumpster is located; and/
or
      (3)   Persons traveling on any public street, sidewalk, or other public
way.
   (C)   When dumpster screening is required under this section, such screening
shall be constructed, installed, and located to prevent or remedy the
conditions requiring the screening.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
FLOODWAYS, FLOODPLAINS, DRAINAGE, AND EROSION
§ 152.405 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state in G.S.§ 143-
211; Ch. 160D, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry; therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the town
does hereby ordain the following provisions.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town that are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this subchapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (e.g., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.406 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this subchapter shall be
interpreted so as to give such words or phrases the meaning they have in common
usage, and to provide this subchapter the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
quality as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on the town’s Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to three feet.
These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal or state other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This ELEVATION, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain occupants
who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid death or injury during a flood;
      (2)   Police stations, fire stations, vehicle and equipment storage
facilities, and emergency operations centers that are needed for flood response
activities before, during, and after a flood; and
      (3)   Public and private utility facilities that are vital to maintaining
or restoring normal services to flooded areas before, during, and after a
flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290, the discharge, deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on any land
or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid waste may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwater.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the November 16, 1989, the original effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the FLOOD INSURANCE RATE
MAP (FIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD OF RECORD CONTOUR. The boundary of the additional area outside of the
area of special flood hazard that would be inundated if floodwaters rise to the
flood of record elevation.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD OF RECORD ELEVATION. The peak elevation of the water surface above
mean sea level recorded during an historic flood, where the recorded elevation
exceeds the base flood elevation.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this subchapter, prior to the commencement
of any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This subchapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power which
control development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or
local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for
preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization on
the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD establishes the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a facility
for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or
disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic; landmarks in
communities with a certified local government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program. Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources through the state’s Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this subchapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include recreational vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (“NGVD”) as corrected
in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (“NAVD”) as corrected in 1988, or
other vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying
elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown
on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of the community’s flood
damage prevention ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (also known as RV, FIFTH WHEEL). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
This definition includes vehicles such as travel trailers, motor homes, and
campers.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor, excluding the foundation system, for structures within all
special flood hazard areas.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the EFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this ELEVATION shall be at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
152.407.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (3)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (4)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and rooted building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement.” SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community’s Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this subchapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.408 and
152.409 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   ZONES. This subchapter references zones A, AE, AO, and A1-30. These ZONES
are FEMA designations, and as such, these ZONES only relate to this subchapter.
The following definitions are from FEMA’s website.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event generally determined using approximate methodologies. Because detailed
hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood elevations (BFEs) or
flood depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements and
floodplain management standards apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations (BFEs)
are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements and floodplain
management standards apply.
      (3)   AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements and floodplain management standards apply.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.407 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this subchapter applies. This subchapter shall apply to
all special flood hazard areas and to all areas bounded by flood of record
contours within the jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions
(ETJs) if applicable, of the town, and within the jurisdiction of any other
community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) Agreement between the state and FEMA in its Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM), for the county dated
October 17, 2006, which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter. The “Flood of Record Contours” are those identified by the county
in its Flood of Record Contour Map(s) dated October 17, 2006, which with
accompanying supporting data, and any revision thereto, are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this subchapter.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
subchapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within
special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with division (B) above.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This subchapter is not intended
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions; however, where this subchapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this
subchapter, all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural
causes. This subchapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the
town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.408 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The Land Use Administrator or
his, her, or their designee, hereinafter (for the purposes of this subchapter)
referred to as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer
and implement the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit or flood of record contours shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to any development activities located within Special Flood
Hazard Areas or flood or record contours. The following items shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development
permit:
         (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            1.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
            2.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in this subchapter, or a statement
that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard area;
            3.   The boundary of the flood of record contour or a statement
that the entire lot is within the flood of record contour when the lot is
within or appears to be within the flood of record contour as shown on the
community’s flood of record contour map(s);
            4.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in this section;
            5.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.407(B);
            6.   The base flood elevation (UFE) where provided as set forth in
this subchapter;
            7.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
            8.   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area or flood of record contours including but not limited
to:
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
            3.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
         (c)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-
65) with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not
limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of flood-proofing measures;
         (d)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details
of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this subchapter
are met. These details include but are not limited to:
            1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns, posts, piers, piles, shear walls); and
            2.   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with this subchapter when solid foundation
perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30.
         (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
         (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (g)   Copies of all other local, state, and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the like); and
         (h)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure the requirements of this
subchapter are met. A description of proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation, when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not
shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
152.407;
         (c)   The regulatory flood protection or flood of record elevation
required for the reference level and all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The regulatory flood protection or flood of record elevation
required for the protection of all public utilities;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that fill material or other development shall not
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
         (g)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-
30; and
         (h)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
      (3)   Certification requirements.
         (a)   Elevation certificates.
            1.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
            2.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            3.   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   Flood-proofing certificate. If nonresidential flood-proofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-
proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data and an operational
plan, is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the flood-proofed design elevation of the reference level and
all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Flood-proofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data and plan. Deficiencies detected
by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (c)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more
than 36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required per §
152.409.
         (d)   Alteration or relocation. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
a professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by
the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
         (e)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b)
above:
            1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.409(B);
            2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.409(B)(6); and
            3.   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.409(B)(7).
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas or flood or
record contours to assure that the requirements of this subchapter have been
satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, and the like) may be required, and require that copies of such
permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, the state’s
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless variance requirements are met;
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.408(B)(3);
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with this §
152.408(B)(3);
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with this §
152.408(B)(3);
      (9)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with this §
152.408(B)(3) and
152.409(B)(2);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas or of flood of record contours
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions or legal title), make the necessary interpretation.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
152.407(B), obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation
(BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available
from a federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.409(D)(2) in order to administer the provisions of this subchapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
nor non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
152.407, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this subchapter;
      (13)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a
special flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the
property owner of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from
FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in
the floodplain development permit file;
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this subchapter and make these records available for public
inspection;
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator or
each member of his, her, or their Inspection Department shall make as many
inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being
done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the
permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator (i.e., Land Use
Administrator) has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter
on any premises within the jurisdiction of the county and within the
jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by resolution,
to such applicability at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or
other enforcement action;
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the county and within the jurisdiction of any
other community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such
applicability. The Floodplain Administrator and each member of his, her, or
their Inspections Department shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of
the Department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action;
      (19)   Follow through with corrective procedures of this section;
      (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM, and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
152.407, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change,
issued by FEMA;
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR); and
      (23)   Coordinate the collection of data from record floods and ensure
updates to the flood of record contours map.
   (D)   Corrective procedures.
      (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his, her, or their
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in such notification.
      (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
         (a)   The building or property is in violation of the flood damage
prevention ordinance;
         (b)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
      (3)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant
to the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that
the building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention
ordinance, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the
owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than 60
calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain
Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property,
they may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be
feasible.
      (4)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the town’s Board of Commissioners by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Town Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Board of
Commissioners shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
      (5)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no
appeal has been made or fails to comply with an order of the town’s Board of
Commissioners following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
   (E)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The town’s Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may
appeal such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
      (3)   Variances may be issued for:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
         (b)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in this §
152.406, provided provisions of this division (E) have been satisfied, and such
facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood damages.
         (c)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements stated in this section.
      (4)   In passing upon variances, the Board of Adjustment consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this subchapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
152.406 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   A written report, signed and sealed by a licensed engineer in the
state, addressing each of the above factors shall be submitted with the
application for a variance.
      (6)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this subchapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
subchapter.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) or
flood of record elevation and the elevation to which the structure is to be
built and that such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks
to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
      (9)   Conditions for variances are as follows.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (10)   A variance may not be issued for hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities. A variance may be
issued for solid waste disposal facilities or critical facilities located in
special flood hazard areas or within an area bounded by a flood of record
contour provided that all of the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area.
         (c)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-
proofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of
record contour elevation.
         (d)   Critical facilities shall have at last one access road connected
to land outside of the area bounded by a flood of record contour that is
capable of supporting a 4,000-pound vehicle. The top of the access road must be
no lower than one-half feet below either the regulatory flood protection
elevation or the flood of record contour elevation.
         (e)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
         (f)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      (11)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in
this divisions (A) and (B) above shall apply to all development within
floodways or non-encroachment zones:
         (a)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
            1.   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of
floodplain development permit; or
            2.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
         (b)   If this section is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter; and
         (c)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
            1.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.409(B)(3); and
            2.   The “no encroachment” standard of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.409 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas and in all areas
bounded by flood of record contours, the following provisions are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, and the like), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this subchapter.
      (9)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this chapter and located totally or partially within the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway, non-encroachment area, flood of record contour or stream setback, and
provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the
other requirements of this subchapter.
      (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.408(E). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
152.408(B)(3).
      (11)   New critical facilities shall not be permitted, except by
variance, as specified in §
152.408(E)
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (15)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in §§
152.407(B), 152.408(C)(1), 152.408(C)(12), or in all areas bounded by flood of
record contours the following provisions, in addition to division (A) above are
required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined
in §
152.406.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined
in §
152.406. Structures located in A, AE, and A1-30 Zones may be flood-proofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lien of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the flood-proofing elevation
shall be in accordance with this section. Soil testing and compaction standards
of the International Building Code shall be met. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this section are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
152.408(B)(3), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Manufactured homes may be replaced within a special flood hazard
area, but no new placement of manufactured homes shall occur within the special
flood hazard area or within an area bounded by flood of record contours of a
lot of record, except by variance.
         (b)   Replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined in §
152.406.
         (c)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most current edition of
the state’s Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 160D-910(g). Additionally, when the elevation
would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade
at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered
foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an
engineering certification is required.
         (d)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of this division (B).
         (e)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
         (f)   Manufactured homes shall not be placed in a regulatory floodway
or non-encroachment area except for replacement structures in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.408(E)(11)(c).
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30 and within the
flood of record contour, flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure were:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; and
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
         (e)   Recreational vehicles shall be on site for fewer than 180
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions.
      (6)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (7)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
division (A)(1) above;
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with division (A)(4) above; and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation or flood of record elevation in conformance with division (B)(4)(c)
above.
   (C)   Exception. An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150
square feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an
elevation or flood-proofing certificate. Elevation or flood-proofing
certifications are required for all other accessory structures in accordance
with §
152.408.
   (D)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
152.407(B) where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to divisions (A) and (B) above, shall
apply.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in
priority order:
         (a)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this subchapter and shall
be elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §
152.408(C)(11) and (12).
         (b)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per §
152.407(B) to be utilized in implementing this subchapter.
         (c)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of
record elevation, as defined in §
152.406.
   (E)   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
flood ways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and streams where BFE data
is provided but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for
a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
      (1)   Standards outlined in this divisions (A) and (B) above; and
      (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
   (F)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways or
non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
152.407(B). The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles. No new development activity shall occur
within designated floodways and non-encroachment areas except by variance.
   (G)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding. Located within the special
flood hazard areas established in §
152.407(B), are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to division (A) above, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of three feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard of one foot if no depth
number is specified.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be flood-
proofed to the same level as required in division (G)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required as per §
152.408(B)(3) and division (B)(2) above.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.410 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This subchapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted
November 16, 1989, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued there under
are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this subchapter shall not
affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of
the flood damage prevention ordinance of the town enacted on November 16, 1989,
as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his,
her, or their authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter;
provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Effective date. This subchapter shall become effective upon adoption.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.411 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   An applicant for a conditional use permit authorizing a major
subdivision and an applicant for minor subdivision final plat approval shall be
informed by the Planning Department of the use and construction restrictions
contained in this subchapter if any portion of the land to be subdivided lies
within a floodway or floodplain.
   (B)   Final plat approval for any subdivision containing land that lies
within a floodway or floodplain may not be given unless the plat:
      (1)   Shows the boundary of the floodway or floodplain; and
      (2)   Contains in clearly discernible print the following statement: “Use
of land within a floodway or floodplain is substantially restricted by this
subchapter and relevant sections of the State Building Code.”
   (C)   Subject to the following sentence, a conditional use permit for a
major subdivision and final plat approval for any subdivision may not be given
if:
      (1)   The land to be subdivided lies within a zone where residential uses
are permissible and it reasonably appears that the subdivision is designed to
create residential building lots; and
      (2)   Any portion of one or more of the proposed lots lies within a
floodway or floodplain, and
      (3)   It is reasonable that one or more lots described divisions (C)(1)
and (C)(2) above could not practicably be used as a residential building site
because of the restrictions set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not apply if the developer demonstrates
to the reasonable satisfaction of the authority issuing the permit or approving
the final plat that the proposed lots are not intended for sale as residential
building lots.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.412 WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS IN FLOODWAYS AND FLOODPLAINS.
   (A)   Whenever any portion of a proposed development is located within a
floodway or floodplain, the agency or agencies responsible for certifying to
the town the adequacy of the water supply and sewage disposal systems for the
development (as set forth in §§
152.383 and
152.384) shall be informed by the developer that a specified area within the
development lies within a floodway or floodplain.
   (B)   Thereafter, approval of the proposed system by that agency shall
constitute a certification that:
      (1)   Such water supply system is designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into it;
      (2)   Such sanitary sewer system is designed to eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into it and discharges from it into floodwaters; and
      (3)   Any on-site sewage disposal system is located to avoid impairment
to it or contamination from it during flooding.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.413 SETBACKS FROM STREAMS OUTSIDE DESIGNATED FLOODPLAINS.
   In any area that is located outside a designated floodplain but is also
located where a stream is located, a building or fill may not be located within
the distance to the stream bank that is equal to five times the width of the
stream to the top of the bank, or 20 feet on each side, whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.414 NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM UTILIZED TO EXTENT FEASIBLE.
   (A)   To the extent practicable, all development shall conform to the
natural contours of the land, and natural and preexisting human-made drainage
ways shall remain undisturbed.
   (B)   To the extent practicable, lot boundaries shall be made to coincide
with natural and preexisting manmade drainage ways within subdivisions to avoid
the creation of lots that can be built upon only by altering such drainage
ways.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.415 DEVELOPMENTS MUST DRAIN PROPERLY.
   (A)   All developments must be provided with a drainage system that is
adequate to prevent the undue retention of surface water on the development
site. Surface water shall not be regarded as unduly retained if:
      (1)   The retention results from a technique, practice or device
deliberately installed as part of an approved sedimentation or stormwater
runoff control plan; or
      (2)   The retention is not substantially different in location or degree
than that experienced by the development site in its pre-development stage,
unless such retention presents a danger to health or safety.
   (B)   No surface water may be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, the drainage system of a development shall
coordinate with and connect to the drainage systems or drainage ways on
surrounding properties or streets.
   (D)   Use of drainage swales rather than curb and gutter and storm sewers in
subdivisions is provided for in §
152.326. Private roads and access ways within un-subdivided developments shall
utilize curb and gutter storm drains to provide adequate drainage if the grade
of such roads or access ways is too steep to provide drainage in another manner
or if other sufficient reasons exist to require such construction.
   (E)   Construction specifications for drainage swales, curbs and gutters,
and storm drains are contained in §§
152.350 through
152.365.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.416 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   All developments shall be constructed and maintained so that adjacent
properties are not unreasonably burdened with surface waters as a result of
such developments.
   (B)   More specifically:
      (1)   No development may be constructed or maintained so that such
development unreasonably impedes the natural flow of water from higher adjacent
properties across such development, thereby unreasonably causing substantial
damage to such higher adjacent properties; and
      (2)   No development may be constructed or maintained so that surface
waters from such development are unreasonably collected and channeled onto
lower adjacent properties at such locations or at such volumes as to cause
substantial damage to such lower adjacent properties.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.417 SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   No zoning, special use, or conditional use permit may be issued and
final plat approval for subdivisions may not be given with respect to any
development that would cause land disturbing activity subject to the
jurisdiction of the state’s Division of Environmental Management Land Quality
Section unless the state’s land quality office certifies to the town that
either:
      (1)   An erosion control plan has been submitted to and approved by the
land quality office; or
      (2)   The land quality office has examined the preliminary plans for the
development and it reasonably appears that an erosion control plan can be
approved upon submission by the developer of more detailed construction or
design drawings; however, in this case, construction of the development may not
begin (and no building permits may be issued) until the land quality office
approves the erosion control plan.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, land disturbing activity means the
clearing and grading of one contiguous acre of land for use by any person in
residential, industrial, educational, institutional, or commercial development,
and highway and road construction and maintenance that results in a change in
the natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to
sedimentation. Sedimentation occurs whenever solid particulate matter, mineral
or organic, is transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from the site of its
origin.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
SIGNS
§ 152.430 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARD. An off-premise sign owned by a person, corporation, or other
entity that is engaged in the business of selling the advertising space on that
sign.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS SUBCHAPTER. The effective date of this subchapter as
originally
adopted, or the effective date of an amendment to it if the amendment makes a
sign nonconforming.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that is attached to, erected on, or supported by a
structure (such as a pole, mast, frame, or other structure) that is not itself
an integral part of or attached to a building or other structure whose
principal function is something other than the support of a sign. A sign that
stands without supporting elements, such as “sandwich sign,” is a also a
FREESTANDING SIGN. If the message is removed from a structure that was
originally designed and used as a FREESTANDING SIGN, this structure shall still
be considered a sign.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS. Signs where the source of the illumination is
inside the sign and light emanates through the message of the sign rather than
being reflected off the surface of the sign from an external source. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, signs that consist of or contain
tubes that are:
      (1)   Filled with neon or some other gas that glows when an electric
current passes through it; and
      (2)   Intended to form or constitute all or part of the message of the
sign, rather than merely providing illumination to other parts of the sign that
contain the message, shall also be considered internally illuminated signs.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGNS. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or
other enterprise or activity that exists or is conducted, sold, offered,
maintained, or provided at a location other than the premises on which the sign
is located. A sign that draws attention to a cause or advocates or proclaims a
political, religious, or other noncommercial message shall also be an OFF-
PREMISES SIGN unless such sign is excluded from regulation under §
152.432, or is subject to regulation under §
152.433(A)(5).
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates information
about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or other
enterprise or activity that exists or is conducted, sold, offered, maintained,
or provided on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN. Any device that is:
      (1)   Sufficiently visible to persons not located on the lot where such
device is located to accomplish either of the objectives set forth in
subdivision ii of this definition; and
      (2)   Designed to attract the attention of such persons or to communicate
information to them.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is:
      (1)   Used in connection with a circumstance, situation, or event that is
designed, intended, or expected to take place or to be completed within a
reasonably short or definite period after the erection of such sign; or
      (2)   Intended to remain on the location where it is erected or placed
for a period of not more than 15 days. If a sign display area is permanent but
the message displayed is subject to periodic changes, then that sign shall not
be regarded as TEMPORARY.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.431 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
152.432 and
152.433, no sign may be constructed, erected, moved, enlarged, illuminated or
substantially altered except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Mere repainting or changing the message of a sign shall not be considered, in
and of itself, a substantial alteration.
   (B)   If plans submitted for a zoning permit, special use permit, or
conditional use permit include sign plans in sufficient detail so that the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board
of Commissioners) can determine whether the proposed sign or signs comply with
the provisions of this subchapter, then issuance of the requested zoning,
special use, or conditional use permit shall constitute approval of the
proposed sign or signs.
   (C)   Signs not approved as provided in division (B) above or exempted under
the provisions referenced in division (A) above may be constructed, erected,
moved, enlarged, illuminated, or substantially altered only in accordance with
a sign permit issued by the Land Use Administrator.
      (1)   Sign permit applications and sign permits shall be governed by the
same provisions of this chapter applicable to zoning permits.
      (2)   In the case of a lot occupied or intended to be occupied by
multiple business enterprises (e.g., a shopping center), sign permits shall be
issued in the name of the lot owner, or his, her, or their agent, rather than
in the name of the individual business enterprise requesting a particular sign.
The town may assist the owner by suggesting a formula whereby the maximum
square footage of sign area allowed on the lot may be allocated equitably among
all tenants, but the town shall be responsible for enforcing only the
provisions of this subchapter and not the provisions of any allocation formula,
lease, or other private restriction.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.432 SIGNS EXCLUDED FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs are exempt from regulation under this chapter except for
those signs described in §
152.442(B) through (E):
   (A)   Signs not exceeding four square feet in area that are customarily
associated with residential use and that are not of a commercial nature, such
as:
      (1)   Signs giving property identification names or numbers or names of
occupants;
      (2)   Signs on mailboxes or newspaper tubes; and
      (3)   Signs posted on private property relating to private parking or
warning the public against trespassing or danger from animals.
   (B)   Signs erected by or on behalf of or pursuant to the authorization of a
governmental body, including legal notices, identification and informational
signs, and traffic, directional, or regulatory signs;
   (C)   Official signs of a noncommercial nature erected by public utilities;
   (D)   Flags, pennants, or insignia of any governmental or nonprofit
organization when not displayed in connection with a commercial promotion, or
as an advertising device;
   (E)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings or works of
art, so long as such features or works do not contain letters, trademarks,
moving parts or lights;
   (F)   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed four square feet each, and that bear no advertising matter;
   (G)   Church bulletin boards, church identification signs, and church
directional signs that do not exceed one per abutting street, do not exceed 16
square feet in area, and are not internally illuminated;
   (H)   Signs that are painted on or otherwise permanently attached to
currently licensed motor vehicles, and that are not primarily used as signs;
and
   (I)   Signs proclaiming religious, political, or other noncommercial
messages (other than those regulated by §
152.433(A)(5) that do not exceed one per abutting street, do not exceed 16
square feet in area, and are not internally illuminated.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.433 CERTAIN TEMPORARY SIGNS: PERMIT EXEMPTIONS AND ADDITIONAL
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following temporary signs are permitted without a zoning, special
use, conditional use or sign permit; however, such signs shall conform to the
requirements set forth below as well as all other applicable requirements of
this chapter except those contained in §§
152.436 and
152.438:
      (1)   Signs containing the message that the real estate on which the sign
is located (including buildings) is for sale, lease, or rent, together with
information identifying the owner or agent. Such signs may not exceed four
square feet in area, and shall be removed immediately after sale, lease or
rental. For lots of less than five acres, a single sign on each street frontage
may be erected. For lots of five acres or more in an area having a street
frontage in excess of 400 feet, a second sign not exceeding four square feet in
area may be erected;
      (2)   Construction site identification signs. Such signs may identify the
project, the owner or developer, architect, engineer, contractor and
subcontractors, funding sources, and may contain related information including
but not limited to sale or leasing information. Not more than one such sign may
be erected per site, and it may not exceed 32 square feet in area. Such signs
shall not be erected prior to the issuance of a building permit, and shall be
removed within ten days after the issuance of the final occupancy permit;
      (3)   Signs attached temporarily to the interior of a building window or
glass door. Such signs, individually or collectively, may not cover more than
75% of the surface area of the transparent portion of the window or door to
which they are attached. Such signs shall be removed within 30 days after
placement;
      (4)   Displays, including lighting, erected in connection with the
observance of holidays. Such signs shall be removed within ten days following
the holidays;
      (5)   Signs erected in connection with elections or political campaigns.
No such sign shall be erected earlier than 30 days prior to the election, and
shall be removed within three days following the election (or conclusion of the
campaign). No such sign may exceed 16 square feet in surface area;
      (6)   Signs indicating that a special event such as a grand opening,
fair, carnival, circus, festival, or similar event is to take place on the lot
where the sign is located. Such signs may be erected not sooner than two weeks
before the event, and must be removed not later than three days after the
event; and
      (7)   Temporary signs that not covered in the foregoing categories as
long as such signs meet the following restrictions:
         (a)   Not more than one such sign may be located on any lot;
         (b)   No such sign may exceed four square feet in surface area; and
         (c)   Such sign may not be displayed for longer than three consecutive
days nor more than ten days out of any 365-day period.
   (B)   Other temporary signs not listed in division (A) above shall be
regarded and treated in all respects as permanent signs, except that (as
provided in §
152.436) temporary signs shall not be included in calculating the total amount
of permitted sign area.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.434 DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF SIGNS.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related, and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a
random manner without organized relationship of elements, each element shall be
considered a single sign.
   (B)   A two-sided or multi-sided sign shall be regarded as one sign so long
as:
      (1)   With respect to a V-type sign, the two sides are at no point
separated by a distance that exceeds five feet; and
      (2)   With respect to double-faced (back-to-back) signs, the distance
between the backs of each face of the sign does not exceed three feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.435 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the entire
area within a single, continuous, rectilinear perimeter of not more than eight
straight lines, or a circle or an ellipse, enclosing the extreme limits of the
writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material
or color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework or bracing that is clearly
incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   If the sign consists of more than one section or module, all of the
area, including that between sections or modules, shall be included in the
computation of the sign area.
   (C)   With respect to two-sided, multi-sided, or three dimensional signs,
the sign surface area shall be computed by including the total of all sides
designed to attract attention or communicate information that can be seen at
any one time by a person from one vantage point. Without otherwise limiting the
generality of the foregoing.
      (1)   The sign surface area of a double faced, back to back sign shall be
calculated by using the area of only one side of such side so long as the
distance between the backs of such signs does not exceed three feet.
      (2)   The sign surface area of a double faced sign constructed in the
form of a “V” shall be calculated by using the area on only one side of such
sign (the larger side if there is a size difference), so long as the angle of
the “V” does not exceed 30 degrees and at no point does the distance between
the backs of such sides exceed five feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.436 TOTAL SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, the total surface area
devoted to all signs on any lot shall not exceed the limitations set forth in
this section, and all signs except temporary signs shall be included in this
calculation.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter or in §§
152.235 through
152.247, the maximum sign surface area permitted on any lot in any residential
district (see §
152.195) is four square feet.
   (C)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, the maximum sign
surface area permitted on any lot in a commercial district shall be determined
as follows:
      (1)   There may not be more than one-half square feet of sign surface
area per linear foot of lot street frontage up to 200 feet of frontage; and
      (2)   There may be up to three-fourths square feet of additional sign
surface area per linear foot of lot street frontage in excess of 200 feet.
   (D)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, the maximum sign
surface area on any lot in the General Business (GB) District shall be
determined by multiplying the number of linear feet of street frontage of the
lot by one foot; however, in no case may the total sign surface area exceed 500
square feet.
   (E)   If a lot has frontage on more than one street, then the total sign
surface area permitted on that lot shall be the sum of the sign surface area
allotments related to each street on which the lot has frontage; however, the
total sign surface area that is oriented toward a particular street may not
exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign surface area allocation that is
derived from frontage on that street.
   (F)   Whenever a lot is situated such that it has no street frontage on any
lot boundary and an applicant desires to install on such a lot a sign that is
oriented toward a street, then the total sign surface area permitted on that
lot shall be the sign surface area that would be allowed if the lot boundary
closet to the street toward which such sign is to be oriented fronted on such
street. The applicant shall be restricted to using only one street and the
closest lot boundary to this street for determining the total permitted sign
surface area; however, the applicant shall be given the opportunity to
determine the one street used in the calculations.
   (G)   The sign surface area of any sign located on a wall of a structure may
not exceed 50% of the total surface area of the wall on which the sign is
located.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.437 FREESTANDING SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a side of a freestanding sign is any
plane or flat surface included in the calculation of the total sign surface
area as provided in §
152.435. For example, wall signs typically have one side. Freestanding signs
typically have two sides (back to back), although four-sided and other multi-
sided signs are also common.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, a single side of a freestanding sign
may not exceed 0.3 square feet in surface area for every linear foot of street
frontage along the street toward which such sign is primarily oriented.
However, in no case may a single side of a freestanding sign exceed 50 square
feet in surface area if the lot on which the sign is located has less than 200
feet of frontage on the street toward which that sign is primarily oriented, 75
square feet on lots with 200 or more but less than 400 feet of frontage, and
100 square feet on lots with 400 or more feet of frontage.
   (C)   In the GB district, a single side of a freestanding sign may not
exceed three-fourths square feet in surface area for every linear foot of
street frontage along the street which such sign is primarily oriented.
However, in no case may a single side of such signs exceed 250 square feet in
surface area.
   (D)   With respect to freestanding signs that have no discernible sides,
such as sphere or other shapes not composed of flat planes, no such
freestanding sign may exceed the maximum total surface area allowed under
divisions (B) or (C) above for a single side of a freestanding sign.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.438 NUMBER OF FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as authorized by this section, no development may have more
than one freestanding sign.
   (B)   If a development is located on a corner lot that has at least 100 feet
of frontage on each of the two intersecting public streets, then the
development may have not more than one freestanding sign along each side of the
development bordered by such streets.
   (C)   If a development is located on a lot that is bordered by two public
streets that do not intersect at the lot’s boundaries (double front lot), then
the development may have not more than one freestanding sign on each side of
the development bordered by such streets.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.439 SUBDIVISION AND MULTIFAMILY DEVELOPMENT ENTRANCE SIGNS.
   (A)   At any entrance to a residential subdivision or multifamily
development, there may be not more than two signs identifying such subdivision
or development.
   (B)   A single side of any such sign may not exceed 16 square feet, and the
total surface area of all such signs located at a single entrance may not
exceed 32 square feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.440 LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Freestanding signs shall observe the setback requirements set forth in
§
152.283.
   (B)   No sign may extend above any parapet or be placed upon any roof
surface, except that for purposes of this section, roof surfaces constructed at
an angle of 75 degrees or more from horizontal shall be regarded as wall space.
This division (B) shall not apply to displays, including lighting, erected in
connection with the observation of holidays on the roofs of residential
structures.
   (C)   No sign attached to a building may project more than 12 inches from
the building wall.
   (D)   No sign or supporting structure may be located in or over the traveled
portion of any public right-of-way unless the sign is:
      (1)   Attached to a structural element of a building; and
      (2)   Erected pursuant to an encroachment permit that has been obtained
from the town.
   (E)   No part of a freestanding sign may exceed a height, measured from
ground level, of 25 feet in the GB district, and 15 feet in all other
districts.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.441 SIGN ILLUMINATION AND SIGNS CONTAINING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter, signs may be illuminated
if such illumination is in accordance with this section.
   (B)   No sign within 150 feet of a residential zone may be illuminated
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless the impact of such lighting
beyond the boundaries of the lot where it is located is entirely
inconsequential.
   (C)   Lighting directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it
illuminates only the face of the sign and does not shine directly into a public
right-of-way, or premises of a residence.
   (D)   Except as herein provided, internally illuminated signs are not
permissible in any residential zoning district, and where permissible,
internally illuminated freestanding signs may not be illuminated during hours
that the business or enterprise is not open for business, or open for
operation. This division (D) shall not apply to the following types of signs:
      (1)   Signs that constitute an integral part of a vending machine,
telephone booth, device that indicates the time, date, or weather conditions,
or similar device whose principal function is not to convey an advertising
message; or
      (2)   Signs that do not exceed two square feet in area and that convey
the message that a business enterprise is open or closed, or that a place of
lodging does or does not have a vacancy.
   (E)   Subject to division (G) below, illuminated tubings or strings of
lights that outline property lines, sales areas, roof lines, doors, windows, or
similar areas are prohibited.
   (F)   Subject to division (G) below, no sign may contain or be illuminated
by flashing or intermittent light or lights of changing degrees of intensity,
except signs indicating the time, date, or weather conditions.
   (G)   Divisions (E) and (F) above do not apply to temporary signs erected in
connection with the observance of holidays.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.442 MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   As provided in the table of permissible uses, off-premises signs
(except those exempted from regulation or from permit requirements under §§
152.432 or
152.433) may not be located in any residential district.
   (B)   No sign may be located so that it substantially interferes with the
view necessary for motorists to proceed safely through intersections, or to
enter onto or exit from public streets or private roads.
   (C)   Signs that revolve or are animated or that utilize movement or
apparent movement to attract the attention of the public are prohibited.
Without limiting the foregoing, banners, streamers, animated display boards,
pennants, and propellers are prohibited, but signs that only move occasionally
because of wind are not prohibited if their movement is not a primary design
feature of the sign, and is not intended to attract attention to the sign. The
restriction of this division (C) shall not apply to signs specified in §
152.432, or to signs indicating the time, date, or weather conditions.
   (D)   Portable signs, defined as any sign designed or intended to be readily
relocated, including signs on wheels, trailers, truck-beds, a-frames or any
other device which is capable of or intended to be moved from one location to
another, are prohibited, except to the extent they are permissible under §§
152.432 or
152.433.
   (E)   No sign may be erected so that by its location, color, size, shape,
nature, or message it would tend to obstruct the view of or be confused with
official traffic signs or other signs erected by governmental agencies.
   (F)   Freestanding signs shall be securely fastened to the ground or to some
other substantial supportive structure so that there is virtually no danger
that either sign or the supportive structure may be moved by the wind or other
forces of nature and cause injury to persons or property.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.443 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs and all components thereof, including without limitation
supports, braces, and anchors, shall be kept in a state of good repair. With
respect to freestanding signs, components (supporting structures, backs, and
the like) not bearing a message shall be constructed of materials that blend
with the natural environment, or shall be painted a neutral color to blend with
the natural environment.
   (B)   If a sign other than a billboard advertises a business, service,
commodity, accommodation, attraction, or other enterprises or activity that is
no longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be
considered abandoned and shall, within 30 days after such abandonment, be
removed by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located, or
other party having control over such sign.
   (C)   If the message portion of a sign is removed, leaving only the
supporting shell of a sign or the supporting braces, anchors, or similar
components, the owner of the sign or the owner of the property where the sign
is located or other person having control over such sign shall, within 30 days
of the removal of the message portion of the sign, either replace the entire
message portion of the sign or remove the remaining components of the sign.
This division (C) shall not be construed to alter the effect of §
152.445(C) which prohibits the replacement of a nonconforming sign. Also, this
division (C) shall not be construed to prevent the changing of the message of a
sign.
   (D)   The area within ten feet in all direction of any part of a
freestanding sign shall be kept clear of all debris and all undergrowth more
than five inches in height.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.444 UNLAWFUL CUTTING OF TREES OR SHRUBS.
   No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the visibility of
any sign, damage, trim, destroy, or remove any trees, shrubs, or other
vegetation located:
      (1)   Within the right-of-way of any public street or road, unless the
work is done pursuant to the express written authorization of the town.
      (2)   On property that is not under the ownership or control of the
person doing or responsible for such work, unless the work is done pursuant to
the express authorization of the person owning the property where such trees or
shrubs are located.
      (3)   In any area where such trees or shrubs are required to remain under
a permit issued under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.445 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Subject to the remaining restrictions of this section, nonconforming
signs that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of this subchapter may
be continued until they are required to be removed under §
152.446.
   (B)   No person may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the
extent of nonconformity of a nonconforming sign. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, a nonconforming sign may not be enlarged or
altered in such a manner as to aggravate the nonconforming condition, and
illumination may not be added to any nonconforming sign.
   (C)   A nonconforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring the
sign into complete conformity with this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   If a nonconforming sign is destroyed by natural causes, then
such sign may not thereafter be repaired, reconstructed, or replaced except in
conformity with all the provisions of this chapter, and the remnants of the
former sign structure shall be cleared from the land.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a nonconforming sign is destroyed if
damaged to an extent that the cost of repairing the sign to its former stature
or replacing it with an equivalent sign equals or exceeds the value (tax value
if listed for tax purposes) of the sign so damaged.
   (E)   The message of a nonconforming sign may be changed so long as said
change does not create any new nonconformities (for example, by creating an
off-premises sign under circumstances where such a sign would not be allowed).
   (F)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, nonconforming signs
may be repaired and renovated so long as the cost of such work does not exceed
within any 12-month period 50% of the value (tax value if listed for tax
purposes) of such sign.
   (G)   If a nonconforming sign other than a billboard advertises a business,
service, commodity, accommodation, attraction, or other enterprise or activity
that is no longer operating or being offered or conducted, then that sign shall
be considered abandoned and shall be removed within 30 days after such
abandonment by the sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located,
or other party having control over such sign.
   (H)   (1)   If a nonconforming billboard remains blank for a continuous
period of 180 days, then that billboard shall be deemed abandoned and shall,
within 30 days after such abandonment, be altered to comply with this
subchapter, or be removed by the sign owner, owner of the property where the
sign is located, or other person having control over such sign. For purposes of
this section, a sign is blank if:
         (a)   It advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation,
attraction, or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating, or
being offered or conducted;
         (b)   The advertising message it displays becomes illegible in whole
or in substantial part; or
         (c)   The advertising copy paid for by a party other than the sign
owner or promoting an interest other than the rental of the sign has been
removed.
      (2)   As soon as reasonably possible after the effective date of this
chapter, the Land Use Administrator shall make every reasonable effort to
identify all the nonconforming signs within the town’s planning jurisdiction.
Land Use Administrator shall contact the person responsible for each such
nonconforming sign (as well as the owner of the property where the
nonconforming sign is located, if different from the former) and inform such
person:
         (a)   The sign is nonconforming;
         (b)   How the sign is not conforming;
         (c)   What must be done to correct the nonconforming situation(s) and
by what date; and
         (d)   The consequences of failure to make the necessary corrections.
The Land Use Administrator shall keep complete records of all correspondence,
communications, and other actions taken with respect to such nonconforming
signs.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.446 AMORTIZATION OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Subject to the remaining divisions of this section, a nonconforming
sign that exceeds the height, size, or spacing limitations by more than 10%, or
that is nonconforming in some other way shall, within two years after the
effective date of this chapter, be altered to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter or be removed.
   (B)   If the nonconformity consists of too many freestanding signs on a
single lot or by an excess of total sign area on a single lot, then the person
responsible for the violation may determine which sign or signs need to be
altered or removed to bring the nonconformity into conformity with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The following types of nonconforming signs shall be altered to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter, or shall be removed within 180 days
after the effective date of this subchapter:
      (1)   Portable signs and temporary signs; and
      (2)   Signs that are in violation of §§
152.441 or
152.442(B), (C), and (D).
   (D)   Off-premises signs that are protected from enforced removal by the
Outdoor Advertising Control Act shall not be subject to the provisions of
division (A) above unless and until just compensation is provided in accordance
with the cited statute.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
PARKING
§ 152.460 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIRCULATION AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking areas, loading areas, or other facilities on the lot.
Essentially, driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles)
comprise the CIRCULATION AREA.
   DRIVEWAY. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a
travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking outside
dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy or
storage.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of §
152.470.
   PARKING AREA AISLES. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set for the
parking of one vehicle.
   VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles
for accessing, circulating, parking, loading, and unloading. It comprises the
total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas
(spaces and aisles).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.461 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED, PARKING REQUIREMENT CHART.
   (A)   All developments in all zoning districts shall provide a sufficient
number of parking spaces to accommodate the number of vehicles that ordinarily
are likely to be attracted to the development in question.
   (B)   The presumptions established by this subchapter are that:
      (1)   A development must comply with the parking standards set forth in
division (E) to satisfy the requirement stated in division (A) above; and
      (2)   Any development that meets these standards is in compliance;
however, the chart of parking requirements is only intended to establish a
presumption and should, as provided in §
152.462, be flexibly administered.
   (C)   Uses in the chart of parking requirements, division (E) below, are
indicated by a numerical reference keyed to the table of permissible uses. When
determination of the number of parking spaces required by this table results in
a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or less may be
disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half shall be counted as one
parking space.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that the chart of parking
requirements set forth in division (E) cannot and does not cover every possible
situation that may arise; therefore, in cases not specifically covered, the
permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board
of Commissioners) is authorized to determine the parking requirements using
this chart as a guide.
   (E)   Chart of parking requirements:
Use Parking Requirement
Use   Parking Requirement
1.110 2 spaces per dwelling unit, plus 1 space per room rented out (see §
      152.219)
1.120 2 spaces per dwelling unit, plus 1 space per room rented out (see §
      152.219)
1.200 2 spaces for each dwelling unit, except that 1-bedroom units require only
      one space
1.400 3 spaces for every 5 beds except for use exclusively serving children
      under 16, in which case 1 space for every three beds shall be required
1.530 1 space for each room to be rented plus additional space (in accordance
      with other sections of this table) for restaurants or other facilities
1.540 1 space for each room to be rented plus additional space
1.541 1 space for each room to be rented plus additional space (in accordance
      with other sections of this table) for restaurants or other facilities
      4 spaces for offices of physicians or dentists
1.700 2 spaces for attorneys
      1 space for all others in this category
2.110 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
2.112 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
2.120 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
2.130 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
2.140 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
2.210 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
2.220 1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area
2.230 1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area
3.110 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
3.120 1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area
3.130 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
3.210 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
3.220 1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area
      1 space per 200 square feet of area within main building plus reservoir
3.230 land capacity equal to five spaces per window
      Ten spaces if windows serve two stations
4.110 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area.
      1 space for every two employees on the maximum shift
4.120 If permissible in the commercial districts, such uses may provide 1 space
      per 200 square feet of gross floor area
      1 space for every two employees on the maximum shift
4.200 If permissible in the commercial districts, such uses may provide 1 space
      per 200 square feet of gross floor area
5.110 1.75 spaces per classroom in elementary schools
      5 spaces per classroom in high schools
5.120 1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area
5.130 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
      1 space for every 4 seats in the portion of the church building to be
      used for services plus spaces for any residential use as determined in
5.200 accordance with the parking requirements set forth above for residential
      use, plus 1 space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area designed
      to be used neither for services nor residential purposes
5.300 1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area
5.400 1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area
      1 space for every three persons that the facilities are designed to
      accommodate when fully utilized (if they can be measured in such a
6.110 fashion - example, tennis courts or bowling alleys) plus 1 space per 200
      square feet of gross floor area used in a manner not susceptible to such
      calculation
6.111 To be determined
6.120 1 space for every 4 seats
6.130 1 space for every 4 seats
      1 space per 200 square feet of area within enclosed buildings, plus 1
6.210 space for every 3 persons that the outdoor facilities are designed to
      accommodate when used to the maximum capacity
6.220 Same as for 6.210 above
      Miniature golf course, skateboard park, water slide, and similar uses: 1
      space per 300 square feet of area plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
      building gross floor area
6.230 Driving range: 1 space per tee plus 1 space per 200 square feet in
      building gross floor area
      Par 3 course: 2 spaces per golf hole plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
      building gross floor area
6.240 1 space per horse that could be kept at the stable when occupied to
      maximum capacity
7.100 2 spaces per bed or 1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area,
      whichever is greater
      3 spaces for very five beds
7.200 Multifamily units developed or sponsored by a public or nonprofit agency
      for limited income families or the elderly require only 1 space per unit
8.100 1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area
8.200 Same as 8.100 plus 1 space for every four outside seats
8.300 Same as 8.100 plus 1 space for every four outside seats
8.400 Same as 8.300 plus reservoir lane capacity equal to 5 spaces per drive-in
      window
9.100 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
9.200 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
9.300 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
9.400 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
      1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area of buildings devoted
9.500 primarily to gas sales operation, plus sufficient parking area to
      accommodate vehicles at pumps without interfering with other parking
      spaces
      Conveyer type: 1 space for every three employees on the maximum shift
      plus reservoir capacity equal to five times the capacity of the washing
9.600 operation
      Self-service type: 2 spaces for drying and cleaning purposes per stall
      plus two reservoir spaces in front of each stall
      1 space for every two employees on the maximum shift but not less than 1
10.21 space per 5,000 square feet of area devoted to storage (whether inside or
      outside)
10.22 Same as for 10.21 above
11.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
12.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
13.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
14.00 1 space for every 2 employees on the maximum shift
15.10 1 space for every 2 employees on maximum shift
15.20 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
15.40 1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area
16.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
19.00 1 space per 1,000 square feet of lot area used for storage, display, or
      sales
20.10 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
21.00 To be determined
22.00 1 space per employee plus 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
23.00 To be determined
24.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
25.00 1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor area
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.462 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that, due to the particularities
of a given development, the inflexible application of the parking standards set
forth in §
152.461(E) may result in a development either with inadequate parking space or
with a number of parking spaces that are far in excess of needs. The former
situation may lead to traffic congestion or parking violations in adjacent
streets as well as unauthorized parking in nearby private lots. The latter
situation wastes money as well as space that could be used more desirably for
valuable development or environmentally useful open space; therefore, as
suggested in §
152.461, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may permit deviations from the
presumptive requirements of §
152.461(E) and may require more parking or allow less parking whenever the
permit-issuing authority finds that such deviations are more likely to satisfy
the standard set forth in §
152.461(A).
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the permit-issuing
authority may allow deviations from the parking requirements set forth in §
152.461(E) when it finds that:
      (1)   A residential development is irrevocably oriented toward the
elderly; and/or
      (2)   A business is primarily oriented to walk-in trade.
   (C)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) allows or requires a deviation from
the presumptive parking requirements set forth in §
152.461(E), said authority shall enter on the face of the permit the parking
requirement that it imposes, and the reasons for allowing or requiring the
deviation.
   (D)   If the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) concludes, based upon information it
receives in the consideration of a specific development proposal, that the
presumption established by §
152.461(E) for a particular use classification is erroneous, then said
authority shall initiate a request for an amendment to the table of parking
requirements in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 152.565 through
152.571.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.463 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (B) and (C) below, each parking space shall
contain a rectangular area at least 19 feet long and nine feet wide. Lines
demarcating parking spaces may be drawn at various angles in relation to curbs
or aisles provided that the parking spaces so created are rectangular (as
required by this section).
   (B)   For parking areas containing ten or more parking spaces, up to 20% of
the parking spaces need contain a rectangular area of only seven and one-half
feet in width by 15 feet in length. If such spaces are provided, they shall be
conspicuously designated as reserved for small or compact cars only.
   (C)   Wherever parking areas consist of spaces set aside for parallel
parking, the dimensions of such parking spaces shall be not less than 22 feet
by nine feet.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.464 REQUIRED WIDTHS OF PARKING ARE AISLES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the following table. Note
that the parking area aisle widths vary according to the angle of parking.
   (B)   Parking area aisle widths table:
 
                Parking Angle
                0 Degrees 30 Degrees 45 Degrees 60 Degrees 90 Degrees
One-way traffic 13        11         13         18         24
Two-way traffic 19        20         21         23         24
 
   (C)   Driveways shall be not less than ten feet in width for one-way traffic
and 18 feet in width for two-way traffic, except that ten-feet-wide driveways
are permissible for two-way traffic when:
      (1)   The driveway is not longer than 50 feet;
      (2)   It provides access to not more than six spaces; and
      (3)   Sufficient turning space is provided so that vehicles need not back
into a public street.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.465 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unless no other practicable alternative is available, vehicle
accommodation areas shall be designed so that, without resorting to
extraordinary movements, vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a
public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas consisting of
driveways that serve one or two dwelling units, although backing onto arterial
streets is discouraged.
   (B)   Vehicle accommodation areas of all developments shall be designed to
that sanitation, emergency, and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making
other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
   (C)   Every vehicle accommodation area shall be designed so that vehicles
cannot extend beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way. Such areas shall also be designed so that vehicles do not
extend over sidewalks or tend to bump against or damage any wall, vegetation,
or other obstruction.
   (D)   Circulation areas shall be designed so that vehicles can proceed
safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles and without
interfering with parking areas.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.466 VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA SURFACES.
   (A)   Vehicle accommodation areas that:
      (1)   Include lanes for drive-in windows; or
      (2)   Contain parking areas that are required to have more than ten
parking spaces and that are used regularly at least five days per week shall be
graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other material that will provide
equivalent protection against potholes, erosion, and dust. Specifications for
surfaces meeting the standard set forth in this division (A)(2) are contained
in divisions (F) and (G) below.
   (B)   Vehicle accommodation areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified in division (A) shall be graded and surfaced with crushed
stone, gravel, or other suitable material, as provided in the specifications
set forth in divisions (F) and (G) below, to provide a surface that is stable
and will help to reduce dust and erosion. The perimeter of such parking areas
shall be defined by bricks, stones, railroad ties, or other similar devices. In
addition, whenever such a vehicle accommodation area abuts a paved street, the
driveway leading from such street to such area (or, if there is no driveway,
the portion of the vehicle accommodation area that opens onto such streets),
shall be paved as provided herein.
   (C)   For a distance of 15 feet back from the edge of the paved street. This
division (C) shall not apply to single-family or two-family residences or other
uses that are required to have only one or two parking spaces.
   (D)   Parking spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (A) above
shall be appropriately demarcated with painted lines or other markings. Parking
spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (B) above shall be
demarcated whenever practicable.
   (E)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be properly maintained in all
respects. In particular, and without limiting the foregoing, vehicle
accommodation area surfaces shall be kept in good condition (free from
potholes, and the like) and parking lines or marking shall be kept clearly
visible and distinct.
   (F)   (1)   Vehicle accommodation areas paved with asphalt shall be
constructed in the same manner as street surfaces (§§
152.355 through
152.357).
      (2)   If concrete is used as the paving material, vehicle accommodation
areas shall be similarly constructed except that six inches of concrete shall
be used instead of two inches of asphalt.
      (3)   The Public Works Director (typically in the town, the duties of the
Public Works Director are performed by the Land Use Administrator) may allow
other paving materials to be used so long as the equivalent level of stability
is achieved.
   (G)   Vehicle accommodation areas without paving shall be constructed in the
same manner as paved areas except that crushed stone of the following types may
be used in lieu of asphalt, concrete, or other paving material: Size 13 Crushed
Stone.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.467 JOINT USE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   One parking area may contain required spaces for several different
uses, but except as otherwise provided in this section, the required space
assigned to one use may not be credited to any other use.
   (B)   To the extent that developments that wish to make joint use of the
same parking spaces operate at different times, the same spaces may be credited
to both uses. For example, if a parking lot is used in connection with an
office building on Monday through Friday but is generally 90% vacant on
weekends, another development that operates only on weekends could be credited
with 90% of the spaces on that lot, or if a church parking lot is generally
occupied only to 50% of capacity on days other than Sunday, then another
development could make use of 50% of the church lot’s spaces on those other
days.
   (C)   If the joint use of the same parking spaces by two or more principal
uses involves satellite parking spaces, then the provisions of §
152.468 are also applicable.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.468 SATELLITE PARKING.
   (A)   If the number of off-street parking spaces required by this chapter
cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot where the principal use
associated with these parking spaces is located, then spaces may be provided on
adjacent or nearby lots in accordance with the provisions of this section.
These off-site spaces are referred to in this section as satellite parking
spaces.
   (B)   All such satellite parking spaces (except spaces intended for employee
use) must be located within 400 feet of a public entrance of a principal
building that houses the use associated with such parking, or within 400 feet
of the lot on which the use associated with such parking is located if the use
if not housed within any principal building. Satellite parking spaces intended
for employee use may be located within any reasonable distance.
   (C)   A developer wishing to take advantage of the provisions to this
section must present satisfactory written evidence that he, she, or they has
the permission of the owner or other person in charge of the satellite parking
spaces to use such spaces. The developer must also sign an acknowledgment that
the continuing validity of his, her, or their permit depends upon his, her, or
their continuing ability to provide the requisite number of parking spaces.
   (D)   Persons who obtain satellite parking spaces in accordance with this
section shall not be held accountable for ensuring that the satellite parking
areas from which they obtain their spaces satisfy the design requirements of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.469 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LOTS WITH EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, whenever:
   (A)   There exists a lot with one or more structures constructed before the
effective date of this subchapter;
   (B)   A change in use that does not involve any enlargement of a structure
is proposed for such lot; and
   (C)   The parking requirements of §
152.461 that would be applicable as a result of the proposed change cannot be
satisfied on such lot because there is not sufficient area available on the lot
that can practicably be used for parking, then the developer need only comply
with the requirements of §
152.461 to the extent that:
      (1)   Parking space is practicably available on the lot where the
development is located; and
      (2)   Satellite parking space is reasonably available as provided in §
152.467; however, if satellite parking subsequently becomes reasonably
available, then it shall be a continuing condition of the permit authorizing
development on such lot that the developer obtain satellite parking when it
does become available.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.470 LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   (A)   Subject to division (E) below, whenever the normal operation of any
development requires that goods, merchandise, or equipment be routinely
delivered to or shipped from that development, a sufficient off-street loading
and unloading area must be provided in accordance with this section to
accommodate the delivery or shipment operations in a safe and convenient
manner.
   (B)   (1)   The loading and unloading area must be of sufficient size to
accommodate the numbers and types of vehicles that are likely to use this area,
given the nature of the development in question.
      (2)   The following table indicates the number and size of spaces that,
presumptively, satisfy the standard set forth in this division (B); however,
the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment,
Board of Commissioners) may require more or less loading and unloading area if
reasonably necessary to satisfy the foregoing standard.
Square Feet Number of Spaces*
Square Feet       Number of Spaces*
1,000 - 19,999    1
20,000 - 79,999   2
80,000 - 127,999  3
128,000 - 191,000 4
192,000 - 255,999 5
256,000 - 319,999 6
320,000 - 391,999 7
Note to table: *Plus one space for each additional 72,000 square feet or
fraction thereof, minimum dimensions of 12 feet x 55 feet, and overhead
clearance of 14 feet from street grade required.
 
   (C)   Loading and unloading areas shall be located and designed so that the
vehicles intended to use said areas can:
      (1)   Maneuver safely and conveniently to and from a public right-of-way;
and
      (2)   Complete the loading and unloading operations without obstructing
or interfering with any public right-of-way or any parking space or parking lot
aisle.
   (D)   No area allocated to loading and unloading facilities may be used to
satisfy the area requirements for off-street parking, nor shall any portion of
any off-street parking area be used to satisfy the area requirements for
loading and unloading facilities.
   (E)   Whenever there exists a lot with one or more structures constructed
before the effective date of this chapter a change in use that does not involve
any enlargement of a structure is proposed for such lot, and the loading area
requirements of this section cannot be satisfied because there is not
sufficient area available on the lot that can practicably be used for loading
and unloading, then the developer need only comply with this section to the
extent reasonably possible.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.471 CURB AND GUTTER REQUIRED FOR PARKING AREAS FOR NEW COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT.
   After the effective date of this section, all new commercial development
requiring construction of new parking areas shall be required to install curb
and gutter around the perimeter of such parking areas. Installation of curb and
gutter shall be consistent with the design standards set forth in §§
152.350 through
152.365 and of any other applicable sections of this chapter. Also, as part of
the review process, all curb(s) and gutter(s) shall be reviewed and approved by
staff prior to and following construction.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
SCREENING AND SHADING
§ 152.485 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS’ FINDINGS CONCERNING NEED FOR SCREENING
REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners finds that:
   (A)   Screening between two lots lessens the transmission from one lot to
another of noise, dust, and glare;
   (B)   Screening can lessen the visual pollution that may otherwise occur
within an urbanized area. Even minimal screening can provide an impression of
separation of spaces, and more extensive screening can shield entirely one use
from the usual assault of an adjacent use;
   (C)   Screening can establish a greater sense of privacy from visual or
physical intrusion, the degree of privacy varying with the intensity of the
screening; and
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter are necessary to safeguard the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.486 GENERAL SCREENING STANDARD.
   Every development shall provide sufficient screening so that:
   (A)   Neighborhood properties are shielded from any adverse external effects
of that development; and
   (B)   The development is shielded from the negative impacts of adjacent uses
such as streets or railroads.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.487 COMPLIANCE WITH SCREENING STANDARD.
   (A)   The table set forth in §
152.489, in conjunction with the explanations in §
152.487 concerning the types of screens, establishes screening requirements
that presumptively satisfy the general standards established in §
152.486; however, this table is only intended to establish a presumption and
should be flexibly administered in accordance with §
152.490.
   (B)   The numerical designations contained in the table of screening
requirements (§
152.489) are keyed to the table of permissible uses (§
152.215), and the letter designations refer to types of screening as described
in §
152.487. This table indicates the type of screening that is presumptively
required between two uses. Where such screening is required, only one of the
two adjoining uses is responsible for installing the screening. The use
assigned this responsibility is referred to as the burdened use in the table of
screening requirements (§
152.489), and the other use is the benefitted use.
      (1)   To determine which of two adjoining uses is required to install the
screening, find the use classification number of one of the adjoining uses in
the burdened use column and follow that column across the page to its
intersection with the use classification number in the benefitted use column
that corresponds to the other adjoining use. If the intersecting square
contains a letter, then begin the process again, starting this time in the
burdened use column with the other adjoining use.
      (2)   To determine the type of screening that a new development must
install, begin under the burdened use column with the use classification number
of the proposed use and follow that line across the page to its intersection
with the use classification number of each use that adjoins the property to be
developed. For each intersection square that contains a letter, the developer
must install the level of screening indicated.
   (C)   If, when the analysis described in division (B)(1) above is performed,
the burdened use is an existing use but the required screening is not in place,
then this lack of screening shall constitute a non-conforming situation subject
to all the provisions of §§
152.155 through
152.159.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, a two-family
or multifamily development shall be required, at the time of construction, to
install any screening that is required between it and adjacent existing uses
according to the table of screening requirements (§
152.489), regardless of whether, in relation to such other uses, the two-family
or multifamily development is the benefitted use or burdened use.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.488 DESCRIPTIONS OF SCREENS.
   The following three basic types of screens are hereby established, and are
used as the basis for the table of screening requirements.
   (A)   Opaque screen, type A.
      (1)   A screen that is opaque from the ground to a height of at least six
feet, with intermittent visual obstructions from the opaque portion to a height
of at least 20 feet.
      (2)   An opaque screen is intended to exclude all visual contact between
uses and to create a strong impression of special separation.
      (3)   The opaque screen may be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped
earth berm, planted vegetation, or existing vegetation.
      (4)   Compliance of planted vegetative screens or natural vegetation will
be judged on the basis of the average mature height and density of foliage of
the subject species, or field observation of existing vegetation.
      (5)   The opaque portion of the screen must be opaque in all seasons of
the year.
      (6)   At maturity, the portion of intermittent visual obstructions should
not contain any completely unobstructed openings more than ten feet wide.
      (7)   The portion of intermittent visual obstructions may contain
deciduous plants.
      (8)   Suggested planting patterns that will achieve this standard are
included in §§
152.510 through
152.523.
   (B)   Semi-opaque screen type B.
      (1)   A screen that is opaque from the ground to a height of three feet,
with intermittent visual obstruction from above the opaque portion to a height
of at least 20 feet.
      (2)   The semi-opaque screen is intended to partially block visual
contact between uses and to create a strong impression of the separation of
spaces.
      (3)   The semi-opaque screen may be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped
earth berm, planted vegetation, or existing vegetation, compliance of planted
vegetative screens or natural vegetation will be judged on the basis of the
average mature height and density of foliage of the subject species, or field
observation of existing vegetation.
      (4)   At maturity, the portion of intermittent visual obstructions should
not contain any completely unobstructed openings more than ten feet wide.
      (5)   The zone of intermittent visual obstruction may contain deciduous
plants.
      (6)   Suggested planting patterns which will achieve this standard are
included in §§
152.510 through
152.523.
   (C)   Broken screen, type C.
      (1)   A screen composed of intermittent visual obstructions from the
ground to a height of at least 20 feet.
      (2)   The broken screen is intended to create the impression of a
separation of spaces without necessarily eliminating visual contact between the
spaces without necessarily eliminating visual contact between the spaces.
      (3)   It may be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted
vegetation, or existing vegetation.
      (4)   Compliance of planted vegetative screens or natural vegetation will
be judged on the basis of the average mature height, density of foliage of the
subject species, or field observation of existing vegetation.
      (5)   The screen may contain deciduous plants.
      (6)   Also, suggested planting patterns which will achieve this standard
are included in §§
152.510 through
152.523.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.489 TABLE OF SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The table of screening requirements is adopted by reference as if set
out in full.
   (B)   This table is necessary to determine the screening type and subsequent
requirements for proposed land use development.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.490 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners recognizes that because of the wide variety
of types of developments and the relationships between such developments, it is
neither possible nor prudent to establish inflexible screening requirements;
therefore, as provided in §
152.467, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) may permit deviations from the
presumptive requirements of the table, and may either require more intensive or
allow less intensive screening whenever it finds such deviations are more
likely to satisfy the standard set forth in §
152.466 without imposing unnecessary costs on the developer.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of division (A) above, the permit-
issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of
Commissioners) may modify the presumptive requirements for:
      (1)   Commercial developments located adjacent to residential uses in
business zoning districts; and
      (2)   Commercial use located adjacent to other commercial uses within the
same zoning district.
   (C)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board
of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) allows or requires a deviation from
the presumptive requirements set forth in the table of screening requirements,
said authority shall enter on the face of the permit the screening requirement
that it imposes to meet the standard set forth in §
152.466 and the reasons for allowing or requiring the deviation.
   (D)   If the permit-issuing authority (Land Use Administrator, Board of
Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) concludes, based upon information it
receives in the consideration of a specific development proposal, that a
presumption established by §
152.487 is erroneous, then said authority shall initiate a request for an
amendment to the table of screening requirements in accordance with procedures
set forth in §§ 152.565 through 152.571.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.491 COMBINATION USES.
   (A)   In determining the screening requirements that apply between a
combination use and another use, the permit-issuing authority (Land Use
Administrator, Board of Adjustment, or Board of Commissioners) shall proceed as
if the principal uses that comprise the combination use were not combined, and
shall reach its determination accordingly by relying on §
152.489 interpreted in the light of §
152.490.
   (B)   When two or more principal uses are combined to create a combination
use, screening shall not be required between the component principal uses
unless these uses are clearly separated physically, and unless screening is
determined to be necessary to satisfy the standard set forth in §
152.486.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.492 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   When undeveloped land is subdivided and only undeveloped lots are
sold, then the subdivider shall not be required to install any screening.
   (B)   Screening shall be required, if at all, only when the lots are
developed, and the responsibility for installing such screening shall be
determined in accordance with the other requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.493 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS’ FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY ON SHADE
TREES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners finds that:
      (1)   Trees are proven producers of oxygen, a necessary element for human
survival;
      (2)   Trees appreciably reduce the ever-increasing environmentally
dangerous carbon dioxide content of the air, and play a vital role in purifying
the air people breathe;
      (3)   Trees transpire considerable amounts of water each day and thereby
purify the air much like the air-washer devices used on commercial air
conditioning systems;
      (4)   Trees have an important role in neutralizing waste water passing
through the ground from the surface to groundwater tables and lower aquifers;
      (5)   Trees, through their root systems, stabilize the groundwater tables
and play an important and effective part in soil conservation, erosion control,
and flood control;
      (6)   Trees are an invaluable physical, aesthetic, and psychological
counterpoint to the urban setting, making urban life more comfortable by
providing shade, cooling the air and land, reducing noise levels and glare, and
breaking the monotony of human developments on the land, particularly parking
areas; and
      (7)   For the reasons indicated in division (A)(6) above, trees have an
important impact on the desirability of land, and therefore on property values.
   (B)   Based upon the findings set forth in division (A) above, the Board of
Commissioners declares that it is not only desirable but essential to the
health, safety, and welfare of all persons living or working within the town’s
planning jurisdiction to protect certain existing trees and, under the
circumstances set forth in this subchapter, to require the planting of new
trees in certain types of developments.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.494 REQUIRED TREES ALONG DEDICATED STREETS.
   Along both sides of all newly created streets that are constructed in
accordance with the public street standards set forth in §§
152.320 through
152.336, the developer shall either plant or retain sufficient trees so that
between the paved portion of the street and a line running parallel to and 50
feet from the centerline of the street, there is for every 30 feet of street
frontage at least an average of one deciduous tree that has or will have when
fully mature a trunk of at least 12 inches in diameter. When trees are planted
by the developer pursuant to this section, the developer shall choose trees
that meet the standards set forth in §§
152.510 through
152.523.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.495 RETENTION AND PROTECTION OF LARGE TREES.
   (A)   Every development shall retain all existing trees 18 inches in
diameter or more unless the retention of such trees would unreasonably burden
the development.
   (B)   No excavation or other subsurface disturbance may be undertaken within
the drip line of any tree 18 inches in diameter or more, and no impervious
surface (including, but not limited to, paving or buildings) may be located
within 12 and one-half feet (measured from the center of the trunk) of any tree
18 inches in diameter or more unless compliance with this section would
unreasonably burden the development. For purposes of this division (B), a drip
line is defined as a perimeter formed by the points farthest away from the
trunk of a tree where precipitation falling from the branches of that tree
lands on the ground.
   (C)   The retention or protection of trees 18 inches in diameter or more as
provided in divisions (A) and (B) above unreasonably burdens a development if,
to accomplish such retention or protection, the desired location of
improvements on a lot or the proposed activities on a lot would have to be
substantially altered and such alteration would work an unreasonable hardship
upon the developer.
   (D)   If space that would otherwise be devoted to parking cannot be so used
because of the requirements of divisions (A) or (B) above, and, as a result,
the parking requirements set forth in §§
152.460 through
152.471 cannot be satisfied, then the number of required spaces may be reduced
by the number of spaces “lost” because of the provisions of divisions (A) and
(B) above, up to a maximum of 15% of the required spaces.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.496 SHADE TREES IN PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Vehicle accommodation areas that are required to be paved by §
152.466 must be shaded by deciduous trees (either retained or planted by the
developer) that have or will have when fully mature a trunk of at least 12
inches in diameter. When trees are planted by the developer to satisfy the
requirements of this division (A), the developer shall choose trees that meet
the standards set forth in §§
152.510 through
152.523.
   (B)   Each tree of the type described in division (A) above shall be
presumed to shade a circular area having a radius of 15 feet with the trunk of
the tree as the center, and there must be sufficient trees so that, using this
standard, 20% of the vehicle accommodation area will be shaded.
   (C)   No paving may be placed within 12 and one-half feet (measured from the
center of the trunk) of any tree retained to comply with division (A) above,
and new trees planted to comply with division (A) above shall be located so
that they are surrounded by at least 200 square feet of unpaved area.
   (D)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be laid out and detailed to prevent
vehicles from striking trees. Vehicles will be presumed to have a body overhang
of three feet, six inches.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.497 NEW CONSTRUCTION LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to improve property values and
community appearance, allow for the ecological benefits provided by plants,
prevent the overcrowding of land, and enhance the welfare of citizens.
   (B)   Applications.
      (1)   All easements and rights-of-way shall be landscaped in accordance
with the ARC specifications.
      (2)   Plants indigenous to the area should be utilized.
      (3)   All landscaping shall be completed according to the final landscape
plan as approved.
      (4)   All homes must be landscaped prior to obtaining a certificate of
occupancy.
      (5)   All applicants and participating builders shall make a diligent
effort to protect all remaining trees during construction.
      (6)   The following represents mandatory landscaping requirements prior
to submission of the certificate of compliance:
         (a)   A landscape plan to be submitted with the site plan in order to
obtain a building permit;
         (b)   Trees of four inches in caliper or larger are to remain on site
between property lines and setbacks except in cases of hardships;
         (c)   All disturbed areas shall be seeded or mulched;
         (d)   Right-of-way to be seeded or mulched;
         (e)   Trees of at least six feet in height or one inch in caliper are
to be planted at a rate of one tree per 5,000 square feet increments, and
existing trees will fulfill this requirement, and the types of trees are to be
specified on drawings; and
         (f)   Foundation shrubs are to be planted at a maximum of five feet on
center around entire parameter excluding garage and deck, and shrubs are to be
at least five gallon in size minimum and in good condition. Types of shrubs are
to be specified on drawings.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
GUIDE FOR LANDSCAPING
§ 152.510 GUIDE FOR PROTECTING EXISTING TREES.
   (A)   Section
152.495 provides for the retention and protection of large trees when land is
developed.
   (B)   To better ensure the survival of existing trees, the developer should
heed the following guidelines (in addition to the mandatory requirements of §
152.495):
      (1)   Protect trees with fencing and armoring during the entire
construction period. The fence should enclose an area ten feet square with the
tree at the center;
      (2)   Avoid compacting the soil around existing trees due to heavy
equipment. Do not pile dirt or other materials beneath the crown of trees;
      (3)   Keep fires or other sources of extreme heat well clear of existing
trees;
      (4)   Repair damaged roots and branches immediately.
         (a)   Exposed roots should be covered with topsoil.
         (b)   Severed limbs and roots should be painted.
         (c)   Whenever roots are destroyed, a proportional amount of branches
must be pruned so the tree doesn’t transpire more water than it takes in.
         (d)   Injured trees must be thoroughly watered during the ensuing
growing year.
      (5)   Prune all existing trees that will be surrounded by paving to
prevent dehydration.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.511 STANDARD FOR STREET AND PARKING LOT TREES.
   (A)   Trees planted in compliance with the requirements of §§
152.494 and
152.496 shall have most or all of the following qualities.
   (B)   The trees recommended in §
152.519 represent the best combinations of these characteristics:
      (1)   Hardiness.
         (a)   Resistance to extreme temperatures;
         (b)   Resistance to drought;
         (c)   Resistance to storm damage;
         (d)   Resistance to air pollution; and
         (e)   Ability to survive physical damage from human activity.
      (2)   Life cycle.
         (a)   Moderate to rapid rate of growth; and
         (b)   Long life.
      (3)   Foliage and branching.
         (a)   Tendency to branch high above the ground;
         (b)   Wide spreading habit; and
         (c)   Relatively dense foliage for maximum shading.
      (4)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Resistance to pests;
         (b)   Resistance to plant diseases;
         (c)   Little or no pruning requirements; and
         (d)   No significant litter problems.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.512 FORMULA FOR CALCULATING SHADING.
   Following is an elementary formula for determining the number of shade trees
required in and around paved parking lots in order to presumptively satisfy the
shading requirements.
(1)   Including parking spaces, driveways, loading areas, sidewalks, and other circulation areas and
not including building area or any area which will remain completely undeveloped, calculate square
footage of the vehicle accommodation area:
                                                                                       sq.ft.
(2)   Multiply:                                                                x .20
(3)   Area to be shaded=                                                             sq. ft.
(4)   Add area shaded by existing trees to be retained in and around the vehicl 
accommodation area:*                                                                    sq. ft.
(5)   Add area shaded by required screening trees, if any:*                     
(6)   Add area shaded by required street trees, if any:*                        
(7)   Subtotal =                                                                     sq. ft.
   If line (7) is greater than line (3), then the shading requirement has been  
met. If not, go to line (8)
(8)   Enter the difference between line (7) and line (3)                             sq. ft.
(9)   Divide line (8)                                                             707   sq. ft.
(10) Total number of shade trees required within the vehicle accommodation area =       trees
* Existing trees retained will be credited according to actual crown radius. Shaded area may be
calculated as follows: 3.14 X (crown radius)2 = shaded area.
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.513 GUIDE FOR PLANTING TREES.
   (A)   The trees recommended in §
152.519 have minimal maintenance requirements. However, all trees must receive
a certain degree of care, especially during and immediately after planting.
   (B)   To protect an investment in new trees, the developer should ensure
that the following guidelines are followed when planting.
      (1)   The best times for planting are early spring and early fall. Trees
planted in the summer run the risk of dehydration.
      (2)   Plant all trees at least three and one-half feet from the end of
head-in parking spaces to prevent damage from car overhangs.
      (3)   Dig the tree pit at least one foot wider than the root ball and at
least six inches deeper than the ball’s vertical dimension.
      (4)   Especially in areas where construction activity has compacted the
soil, the bottom of the pit should be scarified or loosened with a pickaxe or
shovel.
      (5)   After the pit is dug, observe subsurface drainage conditions. Where
poor drainage exists, the tree pit should be dug at least an additional 12
inches and the bottom should be filled with coarse gravel.
      (6)   Backfill should include a proper mix of soil, peat moss, and
nutrients. All roots must be completely covered. Backfill should be thoroughly
watered as it is placed around the roots.
      (7)   Immediately after it is planted, the tree should be supported with
stakes and guy wires to hold it firmly in place as its root system begins to
develop. Staked trees will become stronger more quickly. Remove stakes and ties
after one year.
      (8)   Spread at least three inches of mulch over the entire excavation in
order to retain moisture and keep down weeds. An additional three-inch saucer
of mulch should be provided to form a basin around the trunk of the tree. This
saucer helps catch and retain moisture.
      (9)   The lower trunks of new trees should be wrapped with burlap or
paper to prevent evaporation and sun scald. The wrapping should remain on the
tree for at least one year.
      (10)   Conscientious post planting care, especially watering, pruning and
fertilizing, is a must for street and parking lot trees. Branches of new trees
may be reduced by as much as a third to prevent excessive evaporation.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.514 GUIDE FOR PLANTING SHRUBS.
   (A)   Shrubs planted for screening purposes should be given a proper culture
and sufficient room in which to grow. Many of the guidelines for tree planting
listed in §
152.513 also apply to shrubs.
   (B)   Because specific requirements vary considerably between shrub types,
this subchapter does not attempt to generalize the needs of all shrubs.
   (C)   For detailed planting information on individual species, refer to §
152.515.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.515 LIST OF EXAMPLES OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   (1)   The following tables indicate plantings which will meet the
screening and shading requirements of §§
152.485 through
152.497.
      (2)   The lists are not comprehensive and are intended to suggest the
types of flora which would be appropriate for screening and shading purposes.
   (B)   Plants were selected for inclusion on these lists according to four
principal criteria:
      (1)   General suitability for the climate and soil conditions of this
area;
      (2)   Ease of maintenance;
      (3)   Tolerance of town conditions; and
      (4)   Available plants from area nurseries.
   (C)   (1)   When selecting new plantings for a particular site, a developer
should first consider the types of plants which are thriving on or near that
site.
      (2)   If an introduced species has proven highly effective for screening
or shading in this area, it too may be a proper selection.
   (D)   If a developer chooses to include trees and shrubs that are not on
this list he, she, or they should obtain advance approval of the same from the
Land Use Administrator.
   (E)   Table of trees for screening and shading:
Small Trees for Partial Large Trees for Evergreen Large Trees for Shading
Screening               Screening
Small Trees for Partial Large Trees for Evergreen Large Trees for Shading
Screening               Screening
American Hornbeam                                 Eastern Red Oak
American Holly                                    Gingko
Callery Pear                                      Honeylocust
Carolina Cherry-Laurel                            Laurel Oak
Crape Myrtle            Carolina Hemlock          Littleleaf Linden
Eastern Redbud          Deodar Cedar              London Plane-Tree
Flowering Dogwood       Southern Magnolia         Norway Maple
Golden Rain Tree                                 Red Maple
Mountain Silverbell                               Scarlet Oak
River Birch                                       Sweet Guam
Russian Olive                                     Sycamore
Sourwood                                          Willow Oak
Washington Hawthorn                                
 
   (F)   Table of shrubs for screening:
 
Small Shrubs for          Large Shrubs for Evergreen Assorted Shrubs for Broken
Evergreen Screening       Screening                  Screens
                                                     Border Forsythia
Azaleas and Rhododendrons Burford Holly              Doublefile Viburnum
Convexa Japanese Holly    Fortune Tea Olive          Drooping Leucothoe
Dwarf Horned Holly        Hedge Bamboo               Fringetree
Glossy Abelia             Japanese Privet            Japanese Barberry
India Hawthorn            Laurel or Sweet Bay        Judd Viburnum
Japanese Yew              Lauretinus Viburnum        Northern Bayberry
Littlehead Japanese Holly Red Photinia               Pfitzer Juniper
Warty Barberry            Thorny Elaengus            Star Magnolia
Wintergreen Barberry      Yaupon Holly               Vernal Witch Hazel
                                                   Winter Honeysuckle
                                                      
 
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.516 SMALL TREES FOR PARTIAL SCREENING.
   The following trees are recommended for use in all types of screens, and
even though these trees are smaller than the trees listed in lists §§
152.517 and
152.518, each of these trees will reach a height of at least 20 feet. The
following selections are also recommended as shade trees and may be credited
for meeting the 20% shading requirement for paved parking lots.
   (A)   River Birch (Betula nigra). Height: 20 to 40 feet; Spread: eight to 16
feet. The River Birch is a native tree which usually grows along stream banks.
In landscape design, it is adaptable to either high or low locations, but still
requires a lot of moisture. This tree has an interesting papery bark and a
graceful branching habit. It has no special pest or maintenance problems.
   (B)   American Hornbeam (Carpinus carolina). Height: 20 to 30 feet; Spread:
15 to 20 feet. This native tree has a natural yet refined appearance. It is
slow growing, but at maturity it serves as an excellent shade tree. Its fluted
muscular trunk is an interesting feature. In the wild, the American Hornbeam is
common in moist rich soil, yet, when used in landscape design, it is soil
tolerant and does not require an unusual amount of water. It has no pests and
no special maintenance problems.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.517 LARGE TREES FOR EVERGREEN SCREENING.
   The following trees are ideal for screening large scale areas such as
shopping centers and industrial sites. They are also effective in combination
with other smaller screening plants. Both are moderate to fast growers. They
are not considered to be shade trees.
   (A)   Deodar Cedar (Cedrus Deodara). Height: 40 to 150 feet; Spread: 30 feet
or more. The Deodar Cedar is a useful and attractive evergreen. It should be
allowed plenty of room in order to assume its beautiful natural form. Its
pendulous branches should be allowed to touch the ground. It prefers relatively
dry soils, grows rapidly, and is easy to maintain. “True Cedars” such as the
Deodar are not native to North America, but they have become quite popular in
the south as a landscape tree.
   (B)   Southern Magnolia (Magnolia grandiflora). Height: 40 to 60 feet;
Spread: 25 feet or more. Magnolias are striking trees which serve well as
screens when their branches are allowed to grow to the ground. Generally this
tree does well in town conditions, but it should be planted in quite rich
acidic soils and it requires a lot of moisture. Furthermore, magnolias require
ample space for growth. If planted in full sunlight, they will grow rapidly.
Because it drops large waxy leaves, seed pods, and flowers, the magnolia may
present a litter problem.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.518 LARGE TREES FOR SHADING.
   The following trees may be used for screening, but they are recommended
especially for shading streets and parking lots. Unless otherwise noted, they
will grow rapidly. Each species will attain a mature spread of at least 30
feet.
   (A)   Red maple (Acer rubrum). Height: 40 to 50 feet; Spread: 25 feet or
more. This tree is an example of a maple which is not recommended where there
will be high concentrations of air pollution. However, with its excellent
shading characteristics and beautiful colors, it should not be ignored. This
tree grows rapidly, but, unlike the Norway Maple, it does not become brittle
with age. The Red Maple is a native tree which is usually found in moist, even
swampy areas, but it adapts well to a variety of situations. Although subject
to maple insects and diseases, it is usually a long-lived tree.
   (B)   Honeylocust (Gleditisia triacanthos). Height: 50 to 75 feet; Spread:
25 feet or more. Its open, spreading form and feathery leaves may give the
Honeylocust a frail appearance, but it is in fact a quite sturdy tree, notable
for its resistance to storm damage. It is a native tree which is drought
resistant and adaptable to town conditions. Grass and shrubs thrive beneath a
Honeylocust because it casts light shade. This tree is especially useful for
its ability to be transplanted at a relatively advanced age. Accordingly, it
may be used for immediate effect in a landscape design. The Honeylocust has its
pests and diseases, but it is fairly hardy. Thornless and fruitless varieties
such as “Moraine” are recommended.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.519 SMALL SHRUBS FOR EVERGREEN SCREENING.
   The following shrubs are recommended for informal (unclipped) hedges or
screens. Each species grows to a height of less than six feet; therefore, these
shrubs are appropriate for semi-opaque screens.
   (A)   Glossy Abelia (Abelia grandiflora). Height: four to six feet; Spread:
three to five feet. Abelia is quite common in local nurseries and tends to be
less expensive than other shrubs on this list. It bears pale pink flowers
throughout summer. Although it has proven quite popular for informal hedges, it
has several drawbacks. Abelia should be pruned and thinned to maintain its best
form. It may drop its leaves due to low temperatures, lack of pruning, or
starvation.
   (B)   Warty Barberry (berberis verruculosa). Height: three to four feet;
Spread: three to four feet. Barberrys as a group have proven to be excellent
hedge plants. With their dense, spiny limbs, they are effective barriers in
public places. The Warty Barberry is a shrub with a neat, compact habit. It is
soil tolerant and has not special maintenance requirements. It grows slowly,
but it will reach a height of three to four feet within five years.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.520 LARGE SHRUBS FOR EVERGREEN SCREENING.
   The following shrubs are recommended for high hedges or screens. Each
species grows to a height of more than six feet; therefore, these shrubs are
appropriate for opaque screens.
   (A)   Hedge Bamboo (Bambusa multiplex). Height: ten to 12 feet; Spread: four
to six feet. Hedge Bamboo grows rapidly yet is more easily confined to a
limited area than most types of bamboo. It is adaptable to a variety of
situations, but requires plenty of water. For best effect as a screen, Hedge
Bamboo should be stagger planted.
   (B)   Thorny Elaengus (Elaengus pungens). Height: eight to 10 feet; Spread:
six to ten feet. This shrub tolerates many adverse conditions. It will grow
rapidly in relatively infertile, dry soils. Its dense thorny branches form an
excellent natural hedge. It is one of the most common evergreen shrubs in the
south.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.521 ASSORTED SHRUBS FOR BROKEN SCREENS.
   The following is a sampling of shrubbery that would be appropriate in a
broken screen. Because many of these plants are deciduous, they are not
suitable for opaque and semi-opaque screens. (Note: Many of the evergreen
shrubs described in planting lists §§
152.523 are also suitable for broken screens.)
   (A)   Japanese Barberry (Berberis thunbergii). Height: three to five feet;
Spread: three to five feet. This extremely common deciduous shrub is considered
to be one of the toughest members of the Barberry family. It survives drought,
poor soils, exposure, and the worst town conditions. With its many thorns, the
Japanese Barberry is often used as an impenetrable barrier, but it is
attractive enough to stand alone as a specimen plant. It requires no special
maintenance and, when planted singly, need no pruning.
   (B)   Fringetree (Chioanthus virginicus). Height: ten to 30 feet; Spread:
eight to ten feet. The Fringetree is known for its profusion of beautiful
flowers. It is considered to be one of the most striking native American
shrubs. It is relatively difficult to transplant, but once established it does
well in cities as it endures heavy smoke and dust. The mature Fringetree’s only
drawback is that its leaves appear rather late in spring.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.522 SIZE AT TIME OF PLANTING.
   (A)   Developers shall plant trees and shrubs that are healthy and of
sufficient dimensions at the time of planting to insure the best possible
chance of survival, and to most quickly achieve the desired full growth
dimensions. Seedlings and cuttings are not acceptable.
   (B)   Developers are encouraged to talk to the Land Use Administrator
regarding the size of trees and shrubs they intend to utilize in meeting this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.523 NEW CONSTRUCTION LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All easements and rights-of-way shall be landscaped in accordance with
ARC specifications.
   (B)   Indigenous plants should be utilized.
   (C)   All landscaping shall be completed according to the final landscape
plan that has been previously approved.
   (D)   All homes must be landscaped prior to obtaining a certificate of
occupancy.
   (E)   During construction, all applicants and participating builders shall
make a diligent effort to protect all remaining trees.
   (F)   The following list represents mandatory landscaping requirements that
must be completed prior to submission of the certificate of compliance:
      (1)   A landscape plan to be submitted with the site plan in order to
obtain a building permit;
      (2)   Trees of four inches or larger in caliper are to remain on site
between property lines and setbacks except in cases of hardships;
      (3)   All disturbed areas shall be seeded and mulched;
      (4)   The right-of-way to be seeded and mulched;
      (5)   Trees of at least six feet in height or one inch in caliper are to
be plated at a rate of one per 5,000 square feet. Existing trees will fulfill
this requirement. Types of trees are to be specified on the drawings; and
      (6)   Foundation shrubs are to be planted at a maximum of five feet on
center around entire parameter excluding garage and deck. Shrubs are to be at
least five gallon in size, and in good condition. Types of shrubs are to be
specified on the drawings.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 152.535 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
to the citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually-
oriented businesses within the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter have neither the purpose nor the
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials.
   (C)   Similarly, it is neither the intent nor the effect of this subchapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (D)   It is neither the intent nor effect of this subchapter to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.536 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any form of consideration, or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion
picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproduction
devices, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities, or specified
anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for any form of consideration the
specified materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas, or specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical area.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less that ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nudity, or which features live performances that are characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license, and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in sexually-
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or whose specified anatomical areas are provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   With no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY (OR A STATE OF NUDITY). The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than fully
opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An/the individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SADOMASOCHISM CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise wherein the
practice of flagellation, torture or fettering is used or administered to an
individual either by an employee of the establishment or a patron of the
establishment.
   SEMI-NUDE (OR IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION). The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration any of
the following:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Either:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries,
for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring with 24-month period.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT. The increase in floor areas occupied by the
sexually-oriented business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist on the
date this subchapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which TRANSFERS THE OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL of the business except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.537 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude motel studios;
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers; and
   (J)   Sadomasochism centers.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.538 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All sexually-oriented businesses within the town’s planning
jurisdiction shall require a conditional use permit issued by the Board of
Commissioners pursuant to the normal conditional use permit process. (See §§
152.040 through
152.062.)
   (B)   Permit applications shall proceed as expeditiously as possible and
shall be completed within 60 days of the filing of the application.
   (C)   In the event a permit is denied for any reason, the applicant may
appeal in the nature of certiorari to the county’s Superior Court.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.539 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Sexually-oriented businesses may only locate within the Agricultural-
Residential (AR) zoning district, as defined and described in the this chapter.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business shall be at least 2,000 feet from the
property line of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      (3)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the town which is under the control, operation, or
management of the town park and recreation authorities;
      (4)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment;
      (5)   A licensed premises that is licensed pursuant to the alcoholic
beverage control regulations of the state;
      (6)   Another sexually-oriented business; and
      (7)   Any lot(s) devoted to a residential use as defined in the this
chapter.
   (C)   No more than one sexually-oriented business shall be operated,
established, or maintained in the same building, structure, or portion thereof.
   (D)   For the purpose of division (B) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in division (B) above. Presence
of a town, county or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
section.
   (E)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually-oriented business license provided for in the town
code, and/or the grant of a conditional use permit, of a use listed in division
(B) above within 2,000 feet of the sexually-oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or been
revoked, or after the conditional use permit has expired.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.540 INSPECTION.
   The permit holder and/or licensee of a sexually-oriented business shall
permit, at any time such business is occupied or open for business,
representatives of the Police Department, county’s Health Department, Fire
Department, Planning Department, or other town or county departments or
agencies to inspect the premises for the purpose of insuring compliance with
all applicable ordinances, regulations, and laws.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.541 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter if the person in control of
a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that
does not have a sexually-oriented business license, rents or sub-rents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he, she, or they rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.542 EXHIBITION REGULATIONS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, other video
reproduction, or live entertainment which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Upon application for a conditional use permit, the application shall
be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan specifying the
location of one or more manager’s stations, the location of all overhead
lighting fixtures, and the designation of any portion of the premises in which
patrons will not be permitted.
      (1)   A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   The diagram shall also designate the place at which the permit, if
granted, will be conspicuously posted.
      (3)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (4)   The town may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications
if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted, and if the
applicant certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered
since the plan was prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the town.
   (D)   At least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   (1)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner so that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms.
      (2)   Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
      (3)   If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner so that there is
an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations.
      (4)   The view required in this division (E) must be by direct line of
sight from the manager’s station.
   (F)   The view area specified in division (E) above must remain
unobstructed, at all times, by any doors, curtains, partitions, walls,
merchandise, display racks or other materials to ensure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant
to division (A) above.
   (G)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   (H)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
   (I)   The illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present in the premises.
    (J)   No openings of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
   (K)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing booths or rooms.
   (L)   The premises shall, during each business day, be regularly inspected
to insure that the walls between the viewing booths do not contain any openings
or holes.
   (M)   All floor coverings in viewing booths shall be nonporous, with easily
cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
   (N)   All wall surface and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths shall be
constructed of, or permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable
material. No wood, plywood, composition board or other porous material shall be
used within 48 inches of the floor.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.543 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.544 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.545 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a sexually-oriented business
to cause, suffer, or permit any of the following:
   (A)   Allow a patron to appear in a state of nudity, or to depict specified
sexual activities;
   (B)   Allow a patron to appear in a semi-nude condition;
   (C)   Allow an employee to appear in a semi-nude condition unless the
employee is at least ten feet from any patron or customer, and on a stage at
least two feet from the floor; or
   (D)   Allow an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a customer or the
clothing of a customer.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.546 PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   Persons under the age of 18 years shall not be allowed on the premises of
sexually-oriented business.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.547 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.548 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be deemed to have been violated when a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state; a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more that one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.549 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
without a valid conditional use permit is subject to a suit for injunction as
well as prosecution for criminal violations.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.560 AMENDMENTS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Amendments to the text of this chapter or to the zoning map may be
made in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The term MAJOR MAP AMENDMENT shall refer to an amendment that
addresses the zoning district classification of five or more tracts of land in
separate ownership, or of any parcel of land (regardless of the number of lots
or owners) in excess of 50 acres. All other amendments to the zoning district
map shall be referred to as MINOR MAP AMENDMENTS.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.561 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a request to amend this chapter is initiated by the Board of
Commissioners, the Planning Board, the Board of Adjustment, or the town staff,
the Town Attorney (in consultation with the Planning Staff) shall draft an
appropriate amending ordinance and shall present such amending ordinance to the
Board of Commissioners so that a date for a public hearing may be set.
   (B)   Any other person may also request the Board of Commissioners to amend
this chapter by filing a petition to the Land Use Administrator, and the
petition shall include, among the information deemed relevant by the Land Use
Administrator, the following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of the land affected by the amendment if a change in
zoning district classification is proposed;
      (3)   Stamped envelopes containing the names and addresses of all those
to whom notice of the public hearing must be sent as provided in § 152.568;
      (4)   A description of the proposed map change or a summary of the
specific objective of any proposed change in the text of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a petition as provided in division (B) above, the Land
Use Administrator shall either:
      (1)   Treat the petition for a proposed amendment as one initiated by the
town staff and proceed in accordance with division (A) above if it is believed
that the proposed amendment has significant merit and would benefit the general
public; or
      (2)   Forward the petition to the Board of Commissioners with or without
written comment for a determination of whether an amending ordinance should be
drafted and a public hearing set in accordance with division (D) below.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a petition for proposed amending ordinance as provided
in division (A) above, the Board of Commissioners may establish a date for a
public hearing. In the alternative, upon receipt of a petition for an amending
ordinance as provided in division (B) above, the Board of Commissioners may
summarily deny the petition or set a date for a public hearing and order the
Town Attorney, in consultation with the Land Use Administrator and/or town
staff, to draft an appropriate amending ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.562 PLANNING BOARD CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners sets a date for a public hearing
regarding a proposed amending ordinance, then the Board shall also refer the
proposed amendment to the Planning Board for its consideration.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall endeavor to review the proposed amendment in
such a timely fashion that any recommendations it may have can be presented to
the Board of Commissioners at the public hearing on the amendment; however, if
the Planning Board is not prepared to make recommendations at the public
hearing, it may request the Board of Commissioners to delay final action on the
amendment until such time as the Planning Board can present its
recommendations.
   (C)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners need not wait for the recommendations
of the Planning Board before taking action on a proposed amendment, nor is the
Board of Commissioners bound by any recommendations of the Planning Board at
the time the Board takes action.
      (2)   In addition, the Board of Commissioners may receive the
recommendations of the Planning Board after the public hearing, if the vote is
not to be taken contemporaneously with the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.563 HEARING REQUIRED; NOTICE.
   (A)   An amending ordinance that amends any of the provisions of this
chapter may not be adopted until a public hearing has been held on such
amending ordinance.
   (B)   The Land Use Administrator shall publish a notice of the public
hearing on any ordinance that amends the provisions of this chapter, and said
notice shall be published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the
first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date of the
hearing. In computing this period, the date of publication shall not be counted
but the date of the hearing shall be counted.   
   (C)   With respect to minor map amendments, the Land Use Administrator shall
mail written notice of the public hearing to:
      (1)   The owners of record for tax purposes of all properties whose
zoning classification is changed by the proposed amendment; and
      (2)   The owners of all properties any portion of which is within 150
feet of the property rezoned by the amendment.
   (D)   The Land Use Administrator shall also post notices of the public
hearing in the vicinity of the property rezoned by the proposed amendment, and
shall take any other action deemed by the town staff to be useful or
appropriate to give notice of the public hearing.
   (E)   The notice required or authorized by this section shall:
      (1)   State the date, time, and place of the public hearing;
      (2)   Summarize the nature and character of the proposed change;
      (3)   If the proposed amendment involves a change in zoning district
classification, then reasonably identify the property whose classification
would be affected by the amendment;
      (4)   State that the full text of the amendment can be obtained from the
Town Clerk; and
      (5)   State that substantial changes in the proposed amendment may be
made following the public hearing.
   (F)   The Land Use Administrator and town staff shall make every reasonable
effort to comply with the notice provisions set forth in this section; however,
it is the Board of Commissioner’s intention that a failure to comply with any
of the notice provisions, except those set forth in division (B) above, shall
not render any amendment invalid.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.564 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ACTION ON AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the public hearing on a proposed amendment, the
Board of Commissioners may proceed to vote on the proposed ordinance, refer it
to a committee for further study, or take any other action consistent with its
usual rules of procedure.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is not required to take final action on a
proposed amendment within any specific period of time, but it should proceed as
expeditiously as practicable since inordinate delays can result in the
petitioner incurring unnecessary costs.
   (C)   Voting on amendments to this chapter shall proceed in the same manner
as other ordinances (subject to § 152.571).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.565 ULTIMATE ISSUE BEFORE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ON AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   In deciding whether to adopt a proposed amendment to this chapter, the
central issue before the Board of Commissioners is whether the proposed
amendment advances the public health, safety, or welfare. All other issues are
irrelevant, and all information related to other issues at the public hearing
may be declared irrelevant (by the Mayor), and may be excluded.
   (B)   In particular, when considering proposed minor map amendments.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall not consider any representations
made by the petitioner that if the change is granted, then the rezoned property
will be used for only one of the possible range of uses permitted in the
requested classification. Rather, the Board of Commissioners shall consider
whether the entire range of permitted uses in the requested classification is
more appropriate than the range of uses in the existing classification.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fact that the petitioner may indicate that
the use will likely be of a certain nature will not invalidate the Board’s
decision.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall not regard as controlling any
advantages or disadvantages to the individual requesting the change, but
rather, shall consider the impact of the proposed change on the public at
large.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.566 PROTESTS TO ZONING DISTRICT CHANGES.
   (A)   If a petition opposing a change in the zoning classification of any
property is filed in accordance with the provisions of this section, then the
proposed amendment may be adopted only by a favorable vote of three-fourths of
the Board of Commissioners membership.
   (B)   To trigger the three-fourths’ vote requirement, the petition must:
      (1)   Be signed by the owners of 20% or more either of:
         (a)   The lots included in a proposed change;
         (b)   The lots within 100 feet of either side or the rear tract to be
rezoned; or
         (c)   The lots directly opposite the tract to be rezoned and extending
100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots.
      (2)   Be in the form of a written petition actually bearing the
signatures of the requisite number of property owners, and state that the
signers do protest the proposed change or amendment;
      (3)   Be received by the Town Clerk in sufficient time to allow the town
at least two normal working days before the date established for a public
hearing to determine the sufficiency and accuracy of the petition; and
      (4)   Be on a form provided by the Town Clerk, and contain all the
information that is requested by said form.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICT REZONING
§ 152.580 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   In order to rezone a parcel of land to a conditional use
district, an application must be submitted requesting rezoning to a conditional
use district.
      (2)   The procedures and requirements for submittal of the application
shall be the same as those specified in §§ 152.565 through 152.571.
   (B)   A conditional use permit application must accompany any request for
conditional use district rezoning. The application shall be submitted to the
Land Use Administrator, and shall include information required generally of
conditional use permit applications as sets forth in §
152.048.
   (C)   The Land Use Administrator may authorize deviations in the submittal
requirements to avoid duplications, or may request one application that
contains all of the information formally required for both the rezoning permit
and conditional use permit.
   (D)   Both applications shall proceed simultaneously through the review
process.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.581 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every petition for the reclassification of property to a conditional
use district shall be accompanied by a site plan (drawn to scale) and all
necessary supporting text as listed in §§
152.075 through
152.082.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review the site plan to determine compliance
with:
      (1)   This chapter; and
      (2)   All applicable regulations within the town’s planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.582 PLANNING BOARD REVIEW.
   The Planning Board shall review the application(s) and shall submit to the
Board of Commissioners written recommendations on both the rezoning and
conditional use permit applications.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.583 ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall simultaneously conduct a public
hearing on the rezoning and conditional use permit applications, in accordance
with the procedures applicable to conditional use permit applications.
   (B)   The notice required for such hearing shall be sufficient to comply
with that required for both rezoning and conditional use permit applications.
   (C)   If the Board of Commissioners concludes, in the exercise of its
legislative discretion, that the proposed rezoning would not be consistent with
the public health, safety, or welfare, then the Board may deny the application
in accordance with the same procedures applicable to any ordinance amendment
request.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners may not approve the rezoning application
unless the Board simultaneously approves a conditional use permit, in
accordance with §
152.052, subject to any reasonable conditions and requirements as set forth in
§
152.054.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.584 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   Only those uses and structures indicated in the approved permit and site
plan shall be allowed within the conditional use district. Development in the
district shall comply with all provisions of and conditional to the approved
permit and site plan. Following the approval of the permit, the subject
property shall be identified on the Zoning Map by the appropriate district
designation followed by “CU” (e.g., R-30 CU).
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
§ 152.585 CHANGES IN USE.
   (A)   (1)   Minor changes in a detail(s) to an approved permit or site plan
(which do not alter the basic relationship of a proposed development to
surrounding properties), to the standards and requirements of this chapter, or
to any conditions attached to an approved permit may be approved by the Land
Use Administrator without going through the amendment process.
      (2)   The Land Use Administrator shall forward any application for major
changes in detail(s) to a site plan or permit to the Planning Board and Board
of Commissioners for consideration as an amendment to the conditional use
permit.
   (B)   (1)   Requested changes in use following rezoning and issuance of a
conditional use permit shall be treated and processed as new conditional use
permit applications; however, recognizing that the rezoning was effectuated
based on the first permitted use only, there shall be a refutable presumption
that the proposed new use will materially endanger the public health and safety
and substantially injure the value of adjoining or abutting property.
      (2)   The change in use will therefore be authorized only by the
applicant’s rebuttal of said presumption by clear and convincing evidence, as
well as by establishing all other requirements (of this chapter) applicable to
conditional use permits generally.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.586 REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   It is intended that property shall be reclassified to a conditional
use district only in light of firm plans to develop the property; therefore,
the conditional use permit shall expire after two years as provided in §
152.057.
   (B)   If a conditional use permit is revoked, the Board of Commissioners
shall begin the process to rezone the property to an appropriate general use
district.
   (C)   The owner of the property, or his, her, or their duly appointed
representative, may petition for a new conditional use permit under the
procedures outlined in this section.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of any conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special use or
conditional use permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor that is punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   (1)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this
chapter or a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including
violations of any conditions and safeguards established in connection with the
grants of variances or special use or conditional use permits, shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100.
      (2)   If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation, then the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
      (3)   If the offender was sent a final notice of violation in accordance
with §
152.157 and if the offender did not file an appeal to the Board of Adjustment
within the prescribed time, then the $100 civil penalty may not be appealed to
the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
   (D)   After notification of violation(s) by the Land Use Administrator, each
day that any violation continues shall be considered a separate offense for
purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
   (E)   Any one, all, or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Violation of the provisions of §§
152.405 through
152.417 or failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance
or special exceptions, shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who violates this subchapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
      (3)   Each day (that such violation(s) continues) shall be considered a
separate offense.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (G)   A person who violates §§
152.535 through
152.549 shall be assessed a $200 civil penalty. Each day that a violation
continues unabated shall constitute a separate violation subjecting the person
to daily civil penalties.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Legal status provisions
Administration
   
153.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements
   
153.27   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.28   Corrective procedures
   
153.29   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
153.43   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non- encroachment areas
   
153.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
153.45   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the state has, in Part 6, Art. 21 of Ch. 143; Parts 3, 5,
and 8 of Art. 19 of Ch. 160A; and Art. 8 of Ch. 160A of the state’s General
Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the town does hereby
ordain the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town that are
subject to periodic inundation, which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (e.g., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These AREAS are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal or state other source using
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) approved engineering methodologies.
This ELEVATION, when combined with the freeboard, establishes the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and housing likely to contain occupants
who may not be sufficiently mobile to avoid death or injury during a flood;
      (2)   Police stations, fire stations, vehicle and equipment storage
facilities, and emergency operations centers that are needed for flood response
activities before, during, and after a flood; and
      (3)   Public and private utility facilities that are vital to maintaining
or restoring normal services to flooded areas before, during, and after a
flood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the November 16, 1989, the original effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by FEMA, on which the special flood hazard areas and the floodways are
delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by FEMA.
The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and
flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD OF RECORD CONTOUR. The boundary of the additional area outside of the
area of special flood hazard that would be inundated if floodwaters rise to the
flood of record elevation.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD OF RECORD ELEVATION. The peak elevation of the water surface above
mean sea level recorded during a historic flood, where the recorded elevation
exceeds the base flood elevation.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization on
the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD establishes the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Art. 9 of Ch. 130A, a facility
for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or
disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
      (2)   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in
1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of the community’s flood
damage prevention ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (ALSO KNOWN AS RV, FIFTH WHEEL).
      (1)   A vehicle, which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
      (2)   This definition includes vehicles such as travel trailers, motor
homes, and campers.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor, excluding the foundation system, for structures within all
special flood hazard areas.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
153.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of “substantial
improvement.” SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas and areas bounded
by flood of record contours within the jurisdiction, including extra-
territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable, of the town and within the
jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by resolution,
to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
flood insurance study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM), for the county dated October 17, 2006, which are adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The flood of record contours are those identified by the county in its
flood of record contour map(s) dated October 17, 2006, which with accompanying
supporting data, and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with §
153.07.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.13 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted
December 15, 1989 as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance of the town enacted on November 16, 1989, as
amended, which are not re-enacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his,
her, or their authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter;
provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Land Use Administrator or his, her, or their designee, hereinafter
referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator,” is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit or flood of record contours shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to any development activities located within special flood
hazard areas or flood or record contours. The following items shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development
permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   The boundary of the flood of record contour or a statement that
the entire lot is within the flood of record contour when the lot is within or
appears to be within the flood of record contour as shown on the community’s
flood of record contour map(s);
         (d)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
153.07;
         (e)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
153.07;
         (f)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.27(K),
153.27(L), or
153.42;
         (g)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (h)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area or flood of record contours, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A, or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of flood- proofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (e.g., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
153.41(A)(4), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,
AE, and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state, and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (e.g., wetlands, endangered
species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, and the
like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §§
153.41(A)(6) and
153.41(A)(7) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
153.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection or flood of record elevation
required for the reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection or flood of record elevation
required for the protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-30;
and
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses, if applicable (e.g.,
parking, building access, and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   If non-residential flood-proofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA
Form 81-65), with supporting data and an operational plan, is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood-
proofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in
relation to mean sea level. Flood-proofing certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data and plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain
development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified
design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/
occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required per §
153.41(A)(3).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AO, AE, or Al-
30, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
153.41(A)(6)(a);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
153.41(A)(6); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
153.41(A)(7).
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
§ 153.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas or flood or record
contours to assure that the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (e.g.,
wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, and the like) may be required, and require that copies of such
permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
variance requirements are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
153.26(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with §
153.26(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with §
153.26(C);
   (I)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
153.26(C) and 152.41(A)(2);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas or of flood of record contours (for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions or legal title), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
153.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.42(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
153.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a special
flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the property owner
of the option to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain
a copy of the letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain
development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator or
each member of his, her, or their inspection department shall make as many
inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being
done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the
permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the county and within the jurisdiction of any other community
whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability at any
reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the county and within the jurisdiction of any other
community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
The Floodplain Administrator and each member of his, her, or their inspections
department shall have a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to
enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the department at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.28;
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS report, FIRM, and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
153.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs;
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR); and
   (W)   Coordinate the collection of data from record floods and ensure
updates to the flood of record contours map.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.28 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his, her, or their
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited
in such notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in division (B) above, the Floodplain Administrator shall
find that the building or development is in violation of this chapter, they
shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the
violation within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor
more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, they may order that
corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the town’s Board of Commissioners by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Town Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Board of
Commissioners shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the town’s Board of Commissioners
following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and
shall be punished at the discretion of the court.   
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by the county, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide request for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Ch. 7A of the state’s General
Statutes.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.05, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3), and (I)(5) below have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
153.05 as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report, signed and sealed by a licensed engineer in the
state, addressing each of the above factors shall be submitted with the
application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) or
flood of record elevation and the elevation to which the structure is to be
built and that such construction below the base flood elevation increases risks
to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased premium rates
for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to FEMA and the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances are as follows.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   (1)   A variance may not be issued for hazardous waste management
facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities.
      (2)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
critical facilities located in special flood hazard areas or within an area
bounded by a flood of record contour, provided that all of the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-proofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record
contour elevation.
      (4)   (a)   Critical facilities shall have at last one access road
connected to land outside of the area bounded by a flood of record contour that
is capable of supporting a 4,000-pound vehicle.
         (b)   The top of the access road must be no lower than one-half feet
below either the regulatory flood protection elevation or the flood of record
contour elevation.
      (5)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
      (6)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   (K)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
153.40 and
153.41, shall apply to all development within floodways or non-encroachment
zones.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless it has been
demonstrated that:
         (a)   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of
floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (K)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
153.41(A)(3); and
         (b)   The “no encroachment” standard of division (K)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS
§ 153.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas and in all areas bounded by flood of
record contours the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding. These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment,
water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter
panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, and the like), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
flood of record contour or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
153.29(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
153.26(C).
   (K)   New critical facilities shall not be permitted, except by variance, as
specified in §
153.29(J).
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (O)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE)
data has been provided, as set forth in § 152.07 or §§
153.27(K) and
153.27(L), or in all areas bounded by flood of record contours the following
provisions, in addition to §
153.40 are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined
in §
153.05.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined
in §
153.05. Structures located in A, AE, and A1-30 Zones may be flood-proofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the flood-proofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
153.45. Soil testing and compaction standards of the International Building
Code shall be met. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the standards of this division (A)(2) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
153.26(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Manufactured homes may be replaced within a special flood hazard
area, but no new placement of manufactured homes shall occur within the special
flood hazard area or within an area bounded by flood of record continuous of a
lot of record, except by variance.
         (b)   Replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation or flood of record elevation, as defined in §
153.05.
         (c)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most current edition of
the state’s regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the Commissioner of
Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15, Additionally, when the elevation would
be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the
site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered
foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an
engineering certification is required.
         (d)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (A)(4) below.
         (e)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
         (f)   Manufactured homes shall not be placed in a regulatory floodway
or non-encroachment area except for replacement structures in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.29(K)(3).
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance; equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
         (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30 and within the
flood of record contour, flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; or
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
         (e)   Recreational vehicles shall be on site for fewer than 180
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions).
      (6)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately upon
flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (7)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
§
153.40(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
153.40(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation or flood of record elevation in conformance with division (A)(4)(c)
above.
   (B)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet that
satisfies the criteria outlined in division (A) above does not require an
elevation or flood-proofing certificate. Elevation or flood-proofing
certifications are required for all other accessory structures in accordance
with §
153.26(C).
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.42 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
153.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to §§
153.40 and
153.41, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order.
      (1)   If base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §§
153.27(K) and
153.27(L).
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference per §
153.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
   (C)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated
to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or flood of record
elevation, as defined in §
153.05.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.43 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
153.40 and
153.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.44 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. No new development activity shall occur within
designated floodways and non-encroachment areas except by variance.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.45 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
153.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §
153.40, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of three feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard of one foot if no depth
number is specified.
      (2)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be flood-
proofed to the same level as required in Article 5, Section H(1) of the
ordinance codified herein so that the structure, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as per §§
153.26(C) and
153.41(A)(2).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 3 misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply
with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more
than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1989; Ord. passed 1-20-1994; Ord. passed 9-18-2006)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                 Code Section
1-593                      10.05
Ch. 7A                     152.408,
                           153.29
7A-227                     151.41
7A-228                     151.41
12-3                       10.05
12-3(6)                    90.040
                           10.99,
                           50.04,
                           50.05,
                           52.99,
14-4                       70.99,
                           90.999,
                           91.99,
                           151.42,
                           152.999
14-360                     90.075
14-361                     90.075
14-361.1                   90.075
14-362                     90.075
14-362.1                   90.075
14-363                     90.075
14-363.1                   90.075
14-409.39                  130.20
14-415.23                  130.18
18B-1001                   110.01
42-29                      151.41
42-30                      151.41
Ch. 44A                    92.05
47-30                      152.097,
                           152.098
47F-2-101                  152.098
67-4.1 through 67-4.5      90.040
67-4.2                     90.999
67-4.3                     90.999
67-4.4                     90.999
Ch. 93B                    111.035
95-173 through 95-218      152.008
105-41(b)                  111.022
105-109                    111.069,
                           111.070
105-249.2                  111.022
105-316(a)(1)              152.235
106-701                    90.021
110-86(2)                  152.008
121-5                      111.045,
                           111.068
122C-3(14)                 152.008
                           152.200,
Ch. 130A, Art. 9           152.406,
                           153.05
130A-184 through 130A-200  90.060
130A-190                   90.005
130A-196                   90.061
130A-197                   90.062
130A-198                   90.045,
                           90.061
130A-199                   90.062
130A-290                   152.406
130A-290(a)(6)             153.05
130A-290(a)(35)            152.406,
                           153.05
130A-290(a)(36)            152.406,
                           153.05
136-32                     96.04
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6   153.01
143-138                    150.20
143-143.15                 153.41
143-211                    152.264,
                           152.405
143-214.5                  152.200
143-215.107                152.264
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 3   Charter
                           4.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 8           153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3 153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 5  153.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 8  153.01
Ch. 160A, Art.10           150.62,
                           151.40
160A-1                     10.05
160A-71                    30.21
160A-74                    30.24
160A-77                    10.05
160A-79                    10.05
                           10.99,
160A-175                   51.04,
                           52.99,
                           70.99
160A-175(d)                111.070
160A-175(d) and (e)        50.04
160A-186                   90.044
160A-176                   31.10
160A-193                   10.99,
                           91.99
160A-207                   111.069
160A-239.2                 50.34
160A-282(a)                31.02
                           31.03,
160A-288                   31.05,
                           31.09
160A-303                   91.01,
                           91.99
160A-319                   50.37
160A-443(5)                150.61
Ch. 160D                   152.405
160D-103                   152.002
160D-108.1                 152.179
160D-108(c)                152.180
160D-108.1(e)(4)           152.179
160D-807                   152.055
160D-807(b)                152.041
160D-910(g)                152.409
160D-1110                  152.180
160D-1111                  152.180
160D-1115                  152.180
160D-1129                  150.55,
                           151.01
160D-1130                  150.55,
                           151.01
160D-1201                  151.01
160D-1201(a)               150.59,
                           151.37
160D-1201 et seq.          151.01
                           150.59,
160D-1203(4)               150.61,
                           151.37,
                           151.39
160D-1203(7)               150.62,
                           151.40
160D-1206(b)               150.60
160D-1208(d)               150.59,
                           151.37
163-292                    Charter
                           3.1
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
1-8        10.99
1-14       31.10
1-15       30.02
2-1        30.01
2-2        30.01
2-3        30.02
2-4        30.02
2-5        30.02
2-6        30.03
2-7        30.03
2-8        30.04
2-9        30.04
2-20       30.20
2-21       30.21
2-22       30.22
2-23       30.23
2-24       30.24
2-25       30.25
2-26       30.26
2-27       30.27
2-28       30.28
2-29       30.29
2-40       30.05
2-43       30.06
2-44       30.07
2-45       30.07
2-46       30.08
2-47       30.08
3-1        90.001
3-2        90.003
3-3        90.004
3-4        90.005
3-5        90.020
3-6        90.021
3-7        90.022
3-8        90.035
3-9        90.036
3-10       90.037
3-11       90.038
3-12       90.039
           90.040,
3-13       90.041,
           90.999
3-14       90.042
3-15       90.043
3-18       90.060
3-19       90.061
3-20       90.062
3-21       90.063
3-22       90.044
3-23       90.045
3-24       90.046
3-25       90.075
3-26       90.076
3-27       90.090
3-28       90.091
3-29       90.092
3-31       90.002
3-37       90.006
3-38       90.007
3-39       90.999
4-1        150.01
4-2        150.02
4-3        150.03
4-4        150.04
4-5        150.05
4-6        150.99
4-20       150.20
4-21       150.21
4-22       150.22
4-23       150.23
4-24       150.24
4-25       150.25
4-26       150.26
4-27       150.27
4-28       150.28
4-31       150.40
4-32       150.41
4-33       150.42
4-41       150.55
4-42       150.56
4-43       150.57
4-44       150.58
4-45       150.59
4-46       150.60
4-47       150.61
4-48       150.62
4-49       150.63
5-1        110.15
5-2        110.16
5-3        110.17
5-4        110.01
6-1        94.01
6-2        94.02
6-3        94.03
6-4        94.05
6-5        94.06
6-6        94.07
6-8        94.09
6-9        94.10
6-10       94.08
7-1        32.01-
           32.03
8-1        91.30
8-2        91.31
8-3        91.32
8-4        91.33
8-5        91.99
8-6        91.34
8-7        91.99
8-11       92.01
8-12       92.02
8-13       92.03
8-14       92.04
8-15       92.05
8-17       92.06
8-18       92.07
8-19       92.08
8-21       91.45
8-22       91.46
8-23       91.47
8-24       91.48
8-25       91.49
8-26       91.99
10-1       93.01
10-2       93.02
10-3       93.03
10-5       93.04
10-6       93.05
10-7       93.06
10-8       93.07
10-9       93.08
10-10      93.09
10-21      93.10
10-22      93.11,
           93.99
10-23      31.25
10-24      31.26
10-25      31.27
10-26      31.28
10-27      31.29
10-28      31.30
10-29      31.31
10-30      31.32
10-31      31.33
10-32      31.34
10-33      31.35
11-1       130.15
11-2       130.16
11-21      130.17
11-22      130.18
11-23      130.19
11-30      130.20
11-31      130.21
11-32      130.99
12-2       91.01
12-3       91.01
12-4       91.01
12-5       91.01
12-6       91.01
12-7       91.01
12-8       91.01
12-9       91.01
12-10      91.01
12-11      91.01
12-12      91.01
12-13      91.01
12-14      91.01
12-15      91.01
12-16      91.01
12-21      91.61
12-22      91.61
12-23      91.99
12-31      91.15
12-32      91.16
12-33      91.17
12-34      91.18
12-35      91.19
12-41      91.60
12-42      91.60
12-51      91.02
12-52      91.03
12-53      91.99
13-1       151.01
13-2       151.02
13-3       151.03
13-4       151.15
13-5       151.16
13-6       151.17
13-7       151.18
13-8       151.19,
           151.20
13-9       151.21
13-10      151.22
13-10.1    151.23
13-11      151.24
13-12      151.35
13-13      151.36
13-14      151.37
13-15      151.38
13-16      151.39
13-17      151.40
13-18      151.41
13-19      151.42,
           151.99
13-20      151.43
13-21      151.99
14-1       31.01
14-2       31.02
14-11      31.03
14-12      31.04
14-13      31.05
14-14      31.06
14-22      31.07
14-23      31.08
14-31      31.09
15-1       50.01
15-1.1     50.02
15-2       50.03
15-3       50.04,
           50.99
15-4       50.05
15-5       50.06
15-21      50.20
15-22      50.21
15-23      50.22
15-24      50.23
15-25      50.24
15-26      50.25
15-27      50.26
15-28      50.27
15-29      50.28
15-30      50.29
15-31      50.30
15-32      50.31
15-33      50.32
15-34      50.33
15-35      50.34
15-36      50.34
15-37      50.35
15-38      50.36
15-39      50.37
15-51      51.01
15-52      51.02
15-53      51.03
15-54      51.04,
           51.99
15-55      51.05-
           51.09
15-56      51.10
16-1       111.001
16-2       111.002
16-21      111.015
16-22      111.016
16-23      111.017
16-24      111.018
16-25      111.019
16-26      111.020
16-27      111.021
16-28      111.022
16-31      111.035
16-32      111.036
16-33      111.037
16-34      111.038
16-35      111.039
16-36      111.040
16-37      111.041
16-38      111.042
16-39      111.043
16-40      111.044
16-41      111.045
16-42      111.046
16-51      111.060
16-52      111.061
16-53      111.062
16-54      111.063
16-55      111.064
16-56      111.065
16-57      111.066
16-58      111.067
16-59      111.068
16-60      111.069
16-61      111.070
16-71      111.085
16-72      111.086
16-81      110.30
16-82      110.31
16-83      110.32
16-84      110.33
16-85      111.999
17-1       130.01
17-2       130.02
17-3       112.01
17-4       112.02
17-5       112.03
17-6       112.04
17-7       112.05
17-8       112.06
17-9       112.07
17-10      112.08
17-11      112.09
17-12      112.10
18-1       95.01
18-2       95.02
18-3       95.03
18-5       95.04
18-21      95.15
18-22      95.16
18-23      95.17
18-24      95.18
18-25      95.19
18-26      95.20
18-27      95.21
Ch. 19     33.01
20-1       52.01
20-2       52.02
20-3       52.03,
           52.99
20-4       52.04
20-5       52.05
20-6       52.06
20-7       52.07
21-1       96.01
21-2       96.02
21-3       96.02
21-4       96.03
21-5       96.04
22-1       70.01
22-21      70.02
22-22      70.03
22-23      70.04
22-24      70.05
22-25      70.99
22-31      97.01
22-32      97.02
22-33      97.03
22-34      97.04
22-35      97.05
22-36      97.06
22-37      97.07
22-38      97.08
22-39      97.09
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Passed Date Code Section
2022-01  3-17-2022   152.365
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
Ord. No. Passed Date Code Section
-        - -         97.01-
                     97.09
-        10-8-1970   91.99
                     50.05,
-        1-7-1971    130.15,
                     130.16
-        2-4-1971    130.15,
                     130.16
                     91.30,
-        3-4-1971    91.31,
                     91.33,
                     91.99
-        3-7-1974    50.21
-        1- -1976    96.02
                     94.01-
-        6-3-1976    94.03,
                     94.05-
                     94.10
-        3-4-1979    91.32
-        8-2-1979    96.01
-        3-6-1980    70.02
-        7-1-1981    50.21
-        1-7-1982    51.99
-        7-12-1983   94.06
-        10-18-1984  50.21
-        11-21-1985  50.20-
                     50.37
                     50.01-
-        7-22-1986   50.04,
                     50.99
                     91.60,
-        12-18-1986  96.04,
                     150.27
-        8-20-1987   150.28
-        12-17-1987  52.03,
                     70.01
-        9-21-1989   70.01,
                     70.03
                     153.01-
                     153.13,
                     153.25-
-        11-16-1989  153.29,
                     153.40-
                     153.45,
                     153.99
                     93.01-
-        11-21-1989  93.11,
                     93.99
                     91.01,
-        12-21-1989  91.45-
                     91.49
-        6-28-1990   50.21
-        6-22-1993   111.001,
                     111.002
                     95.01-
-        7-6-1993    95.04,
                     95.15-
                     95.21
-        8-19-1993   52.02
-        10-1-1993   91.61,
                     130.02
                     153.01-
                     153.13,
                     153.25-
-        1-20-1994   153.29,
                     153.40-
                     153.45,
                     153.99
                     93.01-
-        9-22-1994   93.11,
                     93.99
-        11-16-1995  130.17-
                     130.19
-        3-21-1996   110.30-
                     110.33
-        12-19-1996  10.05
-        5-15-1997   93.11.
                     93.99
-        5-21-1998   31.25-
                     31.35
                     95.01-
-        6-18-1998   95.04,
                     95.15-
                     95.21
-        8-20-1998   31.25-
                     31.35
-        4-20-1999   70.02
                     51.99,
-        2-17-2000   52.01-
                     52.07
-        11-16-2000  50.20-
                     50.37
                     95.01-
-        12-21-2000  95.04,
                     95.15-
                     95.21
                     95.01-
-        1-18-2001   95.04,
                     95.15-
                     95.21
                     152.001-
                     152.009,
                     152.020-
                     152.025,
                     152.040-
                     152.062,
                     152.075-
                     152.082,
                     152.095-
                     152.102,
                     152.115-
                     152.119,
                     152.135-
                     152.141,
                     152.155-
                     152.159,
                     152.170-
                     152.182,
                     152.195-
                     152.202,
                     152.215-
                     152.224,
                     152.235-
                     153.248,
                     152.260-
                     152.265,
-        12-20-2001  152.280-
                     152.289,
                     152.300-
                     152.307,
                     152.320-
                     152.336,
                     152.350-
                     152.364,
                     152.380-
                     152.394,
                     152.405-
                     152.417,
                     152.430-
                     152.446,
                     152.460-
                     152.471,
                     152.485-
                     152.497,
                     152.510-
                     152.523,
                     152.535-
                     152.549,
                     152.560-
                     152.566,
                     152.580-
                     152.585,
                     152.586,
                     152.999
-        6-17-2004   91.99
-        4-21-2005   90.021
-        6-16-2005   110.15-
                     110.17
                     153.01-
                     153.13,
                     153.25-
-        9-18-2006   153.29,
                     153.40-
                     153.45,
                     153.99
                    
 
