TOWN OF PINK HILL, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord., passed 7-11-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Pink Hill shall be
designated as the Pink Hill Code of Ordinances or Town of Pink Hill Code, and
may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Lenoir, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the Town of
Pink Hill, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Pink Hill, North Carolina.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this municipality.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the municipality and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way
between abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Pink Hill, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the legislative body.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
municipality or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any municipal officer or
employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the municipality;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the municipality;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the
municipality;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the municipality
not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
municipality; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the municipality.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Pink Hill, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Pink Hill, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section,
to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:....” The
new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (B)   The section headings, any notes following sections, and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
33.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Absence of quorum
   
30.03   Rules of procedure
   
30.04   Elections by the Board
   
30.05   Motion to adjourn
   
30.06   Minutes
   
30.07   Official copies of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.08   Town Clerk
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Board of Commissioners shall hold its regular
meetings on the second Tuesday night in each month at 7:00 p.m., or such other
time as the Board shall fix.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be held at any time on the call
of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the Board. Notice of
such special meeting shall be made to each member of the Board and to the Mayor
and shall comply with all the requirements set forth in G.S. § 160A-71.
   (C)   Adjourned meetings. Any regular or special meeting of the Board and
any adjourned meeting thereof may adjourn to such time prior to the next
regular meeting date as may be fixed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 ABSENCE OF QUORUM.
   If a quorum of the Board is not present, the Mayor may send for absentees,
and if a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand as adjourned to such
time as may be agreed upon by a majority of the members present. The Mayor
shall have authority to require attendance of members of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of the
Board’s meetings shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS BY THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint, suspend, and remove the
heads of all town departments, and all other town employees; provided, the
Board may delegate to any administrative official or department head the power
to appoint, suspend, and remove town employees assigned to the official’s
department. The head of each department shall see that all laws of the state,
the town charter, and the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Board
concerning that department are faithfully executed within the town. Otherwise,
the administration of the town shall be performed as provided by law or
direction of the Board.
(G.S. § 160A-155)
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to fix qualifications
for appointive offices, but shall have no authority to waive qualifications for
appointive offices fixed by charters or general laws.
(G.S. § 160A-60)
   (C)   A vacancy that occurs in an elective office of a city shall be filled
by appointment of the Board of Commissioners in accordance with G.S. § 160A-63.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn shall have precedence and shall be acted on without
debate.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 30.06 MINUTES.
   A complete and accurate account of all the proceedings of the Board shall be
kept by the Town Clerk. Every resolution or order adopted or made by the Board
and every petition submitted to it which is not set out in full in the minutes
shall be filed in an exhibit book and by proper reference be made a part of the
minutes. The minutes of each meeting shall be read or submitted in advance with
the agenda of the meeting at subsequent meetings and, upon being approved by
the Board, shall be signed by the Clerk and Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
§ 30.07 OFFICIAL COPIES OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   A true copy of any ordinance or resolution which has been duly enacted by
the Board of Commissioners and has been signed by the Town Clerk and the
official seal of the town attached thereto shall be known and recognized as an
official copy of any ordinance or resolution of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
§ 30.08 TOWN CLERK.
   A Town Clerk shall be appointed to serve at the pleasure of the Board of
Commissioners at the regular meeting in July of each year. The Board shall set
the salary for the same. The Mayor shall, at any meeting when the Clerk is not
present, designate one of the members of the Board to record the minutes, and
the member so designated shall make note of the same and have the Clerk type
the same for the record.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Authority of Chief to enter into mutual assistance arrangements
Fire Department
   
31.15   Officers
   
31.16   Duties of Chief
   
31.17   Membership
   
31.18   Equipment
   
31.19   Badge; insignia
   
31.20   Fire Department vehicles to have right-of-way
   
31.21   Driving over fire hose
   
31.22   Parking near fire station, fire equipment, or fire hydrant
   
31.23   Hindering members of Fire Department
   
31.24   Police powers of Fire Department members
 
   
31.99   Penalty
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF TO ENTER INTO MUTUAL ASSISTANCE ARRANGEMENTS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
arrangements with other municipal and county law enforcement agencies, provided
that the head of the requesting law enforcement agency makes such a request in
writing.
   (B)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to permit officers of the Town
Police Department to work temporarily with officers of the requesting agency,
including in an undercover capacity; and, the Chief may lend such equipment and
supplies to requesting agencies as the Chief deems advisable. Any such requests
shall be in writing.
   (C)   All such requests and authorizations shall be in accordance with G.S.
§§ 160A-288 and 90-95.2, as applicable.
   (D)   While working with a requesting agency, an officer shall have the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges, and immunities (including those
relating to the defense of civil actions and payment of judgments) as the
officers of the requesting agency, in addition to those the officer normally
possesses.
   (E)   While on duty with the requesting agency, an officer shall be subject
to the lawful operational commands of the officer’s superior officers in the
requesting agency, but the officer shall, for personnel and administrative
purposes, remain under the control of his or her own agency, including for
purposes of pay. An officer shall furthermore be entitled to worker’s
compensation and the same benefits to the extent as though the officer were
functioning within the normal scope of his or her duties.
   (F)   The Chief is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
agreements with other law enforcement agencies in accordance with such
reasonable arrangements, terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the
respective heads of the law enforcement agencies.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Res. passed 9-19-1995)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.15 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, Assistant Chief,
Captain, two Lieutenants, and other officers as the Chief and Mayor may deem
necessary for the effective operation of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners for a term
of two years (to run concurrent with Town Board elections) and shall be
removable during such term for good cause only. The Chief shall be technically
qualified by training and experience and shall have ability to command
personnel and hold their respect and confidence. The Chief’s removal for good
cause shall be only after a public hearing before the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the Mayor and Board and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as the Mayor and Board may require. All
other Department and Company officers shall be accountable to the Chief only.
   (D)   The Assistant Chief shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners
for a term of two years (to run concurrent with Town Board elections) and shall
be removed during such term for good cause only.
(Prior Code, § 31.15) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952; Ord. passed 11-11-1986)
§ 31.16 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Fire Department, and shall be responsible to the Mayor for the personnel,
morale, and general efficiency of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which
the Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such
companies to alarms.
   (C)   The Chief shall, at least once a month, conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the town, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firefighter practice and safety of life and property from fire.
   (D)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin, and circumstances of all fires.
   (E)   The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant, or both if known to the Chief,
to abate within a specified time any and all fire hazards that may be found.
   (F)   Any person so served with a notice to abate any fire hazard or hazards
shall comply therewith promptly and, on compliance, notify the Chief.
   (G)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus, and minor equipment, personnel, and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (H)   The Chief shall report monthly to the Mayor the conditions of the
apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month, their location
and cause, and date of same and loss occasioned thereby; the number and purpose
of all other runs made; and the number of members responding to each fire or
other run, and any changes in membership.
   (I)   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Board of
Commissioners within one month after the close of the fiscal year, such report
to include the information specified in division (G) above, together with
comparative data for previous years and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 31.16) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
§ 31.17 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Membership of the Fire Department shall consist of such persons as
may be required and appointed by the Chief and shall be able-bodied persons
residing within close proximity to the center of the town, preferably property
owners whose business activities are normally within the confines of the town,
and who have telephones in their homes. Determination of whether candidates are
able-bodied or not shall be made by the Chief.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony shall be eligible for
membership on either the volunteer Fire Department or the Rescue Squad.
(Prior Code, § 31.17) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952; Ord. passed 9-8-1981)
§ 31.18 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations of apparatus and equipment needed shall be made to the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners by the Chief and, on approval by the Mayor and
Board of Commissioners, shall be purchased by the Chief.
   (C)   All equipment and apparatus of the Department shall be safely and
conveniently housed in such places as may be designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Suitable arrangement or equipment shall be provided for citizens to
turn in an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they
may promptly respond.
   (E)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Department.
   (F)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus equipment is
housed or handle any apparatus belonging to the Department unless accompanied
by an officer or authorized member of the Department.
   (G)   The individual members and officers of the Department shall not be
liable for any damage resulting from use and operation of apparatus and
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 31.18) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
§ 31.19 BADGE; INSIGNIA.
   (A)   Each member of the Fire Department shall be issued a badge designating
the member’s rank. On severance from the Department, such badge shall be
returned to the Chief.
   (B)   Each member of the Department shall be issued a suitable insignia to
be attached to any automobile the member uses in responding to fire calls. On
severance from the Department, such insignia shall be returned to the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 31.19) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
§ 31.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES TO HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   All motor equipment and all personal cars of Fire Department members shall
have right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm. The Chief
and Assistant Chief or Assistant Chiefs are hereby authorized to attach to
their personal automobiles used by them personally sirens and red lights to be
used only when on official business. Other members of the Department are hereby
authorized to attach to automobiles used by them in responding to fire calls
red signal lights.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
§ 31.21 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over fire hose, except upon specific
orders from the Chief or other officer or member of the Fire Department in
charge where the hose is issued.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.22 PARKING NEAR FIRE STATION, FIRE EQUIPMENT, OR FIRE HYDRANT.
   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to be
placed within ten feet surrounding the entrance to any fire station or other
place where fire apparatus and equipment is stored or housed, or within ten
feet of any fire hydrant or cistern.
(Prior Code, § 31.22) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.23 HINDERING MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall in anywise hinder or delay members of the Fire Department in
responding to a fire call or hinder the Department or any of its members while
discharging their duties as firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 31.23) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.24 POLICE POWERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   All regularly appointed members of the Fire Department are hereby given the
necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this subchapter and it is hereby made the special duty of the Chief of Police
within the jurisdiction of the town and/or other peace officers who may be on
duty and available for fire duty, to respond to all fire alarms and assist the
Department in the protection of life and property, in regulating traffic,
maintaining order, and enforcing observance of all sections of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 31.24) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions and restrictions of §§
31.15 through
31.24 shall be guilty of committing a Class 3 misdemeanor and upon conviction
shall be fined not more than $100 or sentenced to jail for up to 20 days, or
both, for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 31.99) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Equal employment opportunity policy
   
32.02   Town pickup of contributions to local employees’ retirement system
   
32.03   Personnel Policy
§ 32.01 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared and affirmed to be an official policy of the town to
foster, maintain, and promote equal opportunity among persons in its
employment.
   (B)   The town shall select candidates for employment on the basis of the
candidates’ qualifications for the jobs and extend equal opportunities with
respect to compensation, benefits, training, and advancement, including
upgrading and promotion, without regard to race, sex, religion, age, physical
handicap, political affiliation, or national origin and to ensure that equality
in such opportunities continue to be the basis of the town’s policies.
   (C)   As a matter of policy, the Board of Commissioners will comply with the
following equal opportunity provisions, laws, and regulations:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq.;
      (2)   Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§
1404a et seq.;
      (3)   Age Discrimination Act of 1975, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.;
      (4)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §
794;
      (5)   Executive Order 11063 - Nondiscrimination and Equal Opportunity in
Housing (24 C.F.R. part 107);
      (6)   Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (24
C.F.R. part 135);
      (7)   Executive Order 11246 - Part II, Nondiscrimination in Employment by
Government Contractors and Subcontractors; and
      (8)   Section 109 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   As a method of implementing this equal opportunity policy, the Board
will implement an affirmative action plan and a Section 3 plan to provide equal
opportunities in training, employment, and contracting.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Res. passed 1-18-1994)
§ 32.02 TOWN PICKUP OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO LOCAL EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   The town elects pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 128-30(b)(1) to pickup
and pay to the State Local Governmental Employees’ Retirement System the
contributions which would be otherwise payable to this system by its employees
who are members of the system and to treat in all respects such contributions
in the manner specified in G.S. § 128-30(b)(1).
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Res. passed 2-8-1983)
§ 32.03 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Personnel Policy, as passed June 2009 and as amended from
time to time, is incorporated herein, and said Personnel Policy shall be the
official policy of the town, and the provisions of said Personnel Policy shall
supersede any provisions contained in this code of ordinances which are or may
be inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   A copy of the Town Personnel Policy shall be maintained and available
for review during business hours at the Town Hall.
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
   
33.01   Tax Collector
   
33.02   Rate of ad valorem tax determined by Board of Commissioners
§ 33.01 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Town Tax Collector shall be responsible for and shall diligently collect
all delinquent taxes due the town and shall make due report of the same. The
County Tax Department shall collect all current taxes and shall make such
accountings and reports as are required by the General Statutes of the state.
§ 33.02 RATE OF AD VALOREM TAX DETERMINED BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The ad valorem tax rate for the town shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners each year on or before June 30 of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   County solid waste management plan adopted by reference
§ 50.01 COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Lenoir County Solid Waste Management Plan is hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Res. passed 5-19-1997)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewer Management and Control
   
51.01   Management and control
   
51.02   Classification of service
   
51.03   Application for service
   
51.04   Deposits for service
   
51.05   Minimum charges
   
51.06   Town’s responsibility and liability; connection charges
   
51.07   Applicant’s responsibility
   
51.08   Extensions to main
   
51.09   Access to premises
   
51.10   Change of occupancy
   
51.11   Billing, collections
   
51.12   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.13   Complaints and adjustments
   
51.14   Rates and charges
   
51.15   Service connection mandatory
Oil and Grease Removal Program
   
51.30   Purpose
   
51.31   Compliance required
   
51.32   Sizing standards for grease trap installation
   
51.33   Maintenance recommendations
SEWER MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL
§ 51.01 MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL.
   The management and control of the sanitary sewer system of the town, and
sewer service to applicants, shall be governed by rules and regulations
prescribed by this subchapter, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.02 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   RESIDENTIAL SERVICE shall mean sewer service to a single family
dwelling, and to each residential unit in a trailer court, duplex, and multiple
dwelling building.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SERVICE shall mean all services not classed
as residential service.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.03 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation required to make connection with the
town sanitary sewer system for sewer service shall make written application
upon a form supplied by the town, containing all information required by the
form. The application shall be signed by the applicant and shall be accompanied
by the appropriate connection fees and deposits required by this subchapter.
   (B)   The town may reject any application for service not available under a
standard rate or which involves excessive service cost, or which may affect the
availability of service to other customers.
   (C)   The town may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service previously supplied at any
location. When the owner of the premises has been served water and/or sewer
service and has not paid for the same, the town shall not be required to render
service to anyone at such location until such delinquent bill has been paid.
   (D)   For violation of any of the provisions of this chapter relating to
sewer service, the town may discontinue service in accordance with the
procedure set forth in §
51.11. Where the service is thereafter reinstated, the applicant shall first
pay to the town a reinstatement service charge in such amount as established by
a schedule of fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board, a
copy of which schedule shall be maintained and available for review during
normal business hours at the town hall.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.04 DEPOSITS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The town shall be authorized to collect deposits for water and sewer
service upon such terms and in such amounts as established by a schedule of
fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board, a copy of which
schedule shall be maintained and available for review during normal business
hours at the Town Hall.
   (B)   Upon ten days’ written notice, any sewer service applicant may be
required to deposit a sum in an amount equivalent to two times the amount of
the maximum monthly bill theretofor rendered to such applicant.
   (C)   If the deposits required by this chapter are not maintained, service
shall be discontinued until the requirements are complied with. Such deposit
shall be applied by the town to the payment of any unpaid bills outstanding
against the user at the time service is for any reason discontinued.
   (D)   No interest shall be payable by the town with respect to any deposit
made pursuant to this subchapter.
   (E)   The applicant in whose name each deposit is made shall be responsible
for the payment of all bills incurred in connection with sewer service
furnished such applicant.
   (F)   A separate deposit shall be required for each service installed.
   (G)   The receipt issued by the town for a deposit is not negotiable and
shall be redeemable only at the town’s offices.
   (H)   When the town finds that the request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town may require the applicant for refund to produce the
deposit receipt properly endorsed.
§ 51.05 MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   The minimum cash deposit, the minimum monthly charge for service, as
provided in the rate schedule, and the initial connection charge shall be made
for each service installed, regardless of location.
   (B)   Where more than one family dwelling unit, commercial establishment, or
industrial establishment is provided with service through a single service
connection, the monthly charges for service shall be the greater of:
      (1)   The number of family dwelling units, commercial establishments, or
industrial establishments served times the monthly minimum charge as shown in
the current rate schedule; or
      (2)   The actual charge determined for the quantity of metered water
consumed.
   (C)   As of July 1, 1999, there shall be no service provided to more than
one residential or commercial unit through a single service connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 6-15-1999)
§ 51.06 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY; CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The town will install a service line from its collection line to the
property line where the collection line exists and runs immediately adjacent
and parallel to the property to be served, subject to the provisions of this
subchapter applicable to connections with the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   For extension and connection with the town sanitary sewer system, the
town shall be authorized to collect connection and service fees upon such terms
and in such amounts as established by a schedule of fees adopted and amended
from time to time by the Town Board, a copy of which schedule shall be
maintained and available for review during normal business hours at the Town
Hall.
   (C)   There shall be installed at the point of service to every applicant a
gravity service line of such size and type as will most nearly meet the
requirements of the service for which it is installed and in conformity with
the police and requirements of the town. The town may install said service line
to the property line or, at the town’s option, on the applicant’s property in a
convenient and appropriate location adjacent to or near the street line.
   (D)   When two or more services are to be installed on the same premises for
different applicants, they shall be closely grouped.
   (E)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
applicant’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the applicant’s
lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow and unless otherwise in compliance with all applicable laws,
ordinances, and regulations.
   (G)   The town shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting
from any defect in the piping, fixtures, or appliances on the applicant’s
premises. The town shall not be responsible for negligence of third persons, or
forces beyond the control of the town resulting in any interruption of service.
The town shall not, in any case, be liable to any person, firm, or corporation,
resident or non-resident, for damages for a failure to furnish a sufficient
capacity or, particularly, quality of sewer service for any purpose.
   (H)   Under normal conditions, the applicant will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
§ 51.07 APPLICANT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the applicant’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines.
   (B)   If the applicant’s piping on the applicant’s premises is so arranged
that the town is called upon to provide additional service, each place of
service will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   The applicant’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the applicant at the applicant’s expense, in a safe and efficient manner and
in accordance with the town’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the State Board of Health and all applicable laws,
ordinances, and regulations (municipal, county, and state).
   (D)   The applicant shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s
property placed on the applicant’s premises and shall permit access to it only
by authorized representatives of the town.
   (E)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the applicant, his or her agents or employees,
the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the
applicant to the town and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by
the applicant.
   (F)   The amount of such loss or damage or the cost of repairs shall be
added to the applicant’s bill, and if not paid, water and sewer service may be
discontinued by the town.
   (G)   Where there is not provided a separate service connection for each
building situated on any given lot or parcel of land, the owner of such lot or
parcel of land shall be responsible for the payment of charges for service
supplied to all such buildings on the lot or parcel. Where separate service
connections are not provided to every occupancy unit, or tenant within a multi-
tenant building, the owner of the building shall be responsible for the payment
of all charges for water and sewer services to such building.
(Prior Code, § 51.07) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 EXTENSIONS TO MAINS.
   (A)   Following the original construction and installation of the town
sanitary sewer system, sewer lines may be extended in accordance with policies
established from time to time by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The town shall not be required to permit or to make any extensions of
sewer lines except in accordance with policies established by the Board of
Commissioners and only in the event the applicant desiring extension shall
advance to the town the entire cost of such extension and installation of
lines.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.09 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access, at all
reasonable hours, to the premises of the applicant for the purpose of
installing or removing town property, inspecting piping, or for any other
purpose in connection with the town’s service and facilities.
   (B)   Each applicant shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the town a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any property
owned or controlled by the applicant whenever such perpetual easement and
right-of-way is necessary for the town sewer facilities and lines, so as to be
able to furnish sewer service to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.10 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than three days’ notice must be given to discontinue service
or to report a change of occupancy. Such a report shall be made to the Town
Clerk:
      (1)   In person during regular business hours;
      (2)   By first class mail in a post-paid envelope, properly addressed to
the Town Hall;
      (3)   By facsimile transmission to the town’s facsimile receiving unit;
or
      (4)   By electronic mail to the town’s email address.
   (B)   The vacating applicant shall be responsible for all water and sewer
service used up to the time of departure or the time specified for departure,
whichever period is longest.
   (C)   Charges for water and sewer service shall be made monthly, and each
user of metered water service shall be billed for sewer service in accord with
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 BILLING, COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Water meters will be read and bills rendered monthly, but the town may
vary the dates or length of period covered temporarily or permanently if
necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water and sewer service will be figured in accord with the
town’s published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount
of water consumed for the period covered by the meter readings, but the amount
payable for each month’s service shall not be less than the minimum charge
prescribed in the schedule of rates.
   (C)   (1)   Charges for water and sewer service shall be made monthly.
      (2)   New applicants for metered water service shall be charged for sewer
service when the water service meter and sewer service connection is installed,
whether used or not.
   (D)   Bills for water and sewer service shall be due when rendered. Any bill
which shall be due and unpaid by the end of the fifteenth day of the calendar
month next following the end of the month for which billed, shall be subject to
an additional charge, as established by the Commission, and if not paid by the
twenty-fifth of that month, the water and sewer services shall be discontinued,
and upon payment of the delinquent bill, there shall be added a reinstatement
of service charge in an amount as established by a schedule of fees adopted and
amended from time to time by the Town Board, a copy of which schedule shall be
maintained and available for review during normal business hours at the Town
Hall.
   (E)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from
becoming delinquent nor relieve the applicant from payment.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.12 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, service will
be discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to be heard by the Board of Commissioners at the next
monthly Board meeting at which time he or she may be represented in person or
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the Town Board. The Board
shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued
and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s
complaint.
   (B)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.13 COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If any applicant believes his or her bill to be in error, he or
she shall present his or her claim, in person, at a meeting of the Board of
Commissioners before the bill becomes delinquent.
      (2)   Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not
be effective to prevent discontinuance of service, as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   The applicant may pay such bill under protest and said payment
shall not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may authorize equitable adjustments to be
made with respect to any water and sewer service account when the facts justify
such action.
   (C)   Adjustment of accounts, modification of rates, or amendment of rules
and regulations shall be made only by the Board of Commissioners in regular or
special session.
(Prior Code, § 51.13) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.14 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for sewer services of the town shall be established by
a schedule of fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board, a
copy of which schedule shall be maintained and available for review during
normal business hours at the Town Hall, and shall be paid and collected in
accordance with law and the provisions of this chapter.
§ 51.15 SERVICE CONNECTION MANDATORY.
   (A)   All residences, all commercial establishments, and all industrial
establishments constructed on or after September 10, 1985, shall be allowed to
install a private septic tank until such time the town is able to provide town
sewer services to the new establishments.
   (B)   (1)   At such time when and if it becomes necessary to install private
septic tanks, the applicant shall first obtain a permit and engineering plan
from the County Health Department and shall conform to all policies and
requirements of the Health Department and the town concerning the installation
of said tank.
      (2)   All costs of permits, fees, and plans necessary for the
installation of the private septic tanks shall be at the sole expense of the
applicant.
      (3)   At no time will the town be held responsible or liable for any
costs incurred for installation services, fees, or permits on private sewage
treatment facilities.
      (4)   At no time will the town make any equitable adjustments with
respect to any private septic tank installation, charges, permits, fees, and/or
services.
      (5)   The applicant will be required to pay any and all connection fees
and deposits prior to connection to the town sewer system.
      (6)   At such time as the town is able to provide sewer services, the
continued use of private septic tanks shall be prohibited and unlawful, and
connection to the town sanitary sewer system shall be required.
   (C)   For violation of the provisions of this subchapter, the town may,
after reasonable notice, discontinue water service to such violator until
compliance shall have been effected.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 9-10-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
OIL AND GREASE REMOVAL PROGRAM
§ 51.30 PURPOSE.
   The program set forth in this subchapter is necessary because:
   (A)   Oil and grease can obstruct the flow of wastewater in the collection
system by accumulating on the inside walls of pipes;
   (B)   Oil and grease increase the pollutional load that must be treated at
the WWTP. This reduces WWTP efficiency by increasing treatment costs;
   (C)   Maintenance costs. The town spends additional dollars per year
unclogging pipes in the collection system and physically removing oil and
grease at WWTP; and
   (D)   Much of the oil and grease originates with commercial and
institutional food preparation establishments.
(Prior Code, § 51.25)
§ 51.31 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The following must comply with the provisions of this subchapter: all
generators of oil and grease, including restaurants, grocery stores that
process meat, nursing homes, schools, hospitals, convenient stores that prepare
food, public facilities with kitchens, all special use areas that allow
cooking, and all facilities that change oil and service motors, unless they are
subject to other state or federal oil and grease inspection laws.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.32 SIZING STANDARDS FOR GREASE TRAP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A facility meeting the criteria must possess and maintain a properly
sized grease trap interceptor.
   (B)   All existing facilities that generate oil and grease will be allowed
to install under the sink indoor traps and/or automatic traps sized by an
engineer or the grease trap manufacturer, but an emphasis will be placed on
maintenance records showing that these traps are cleaned daily and documented
by employees of the establishment.
   (C)   All new facilities that generate oil and grease will be required to
install, at a minimum, a 750-gallon grease trap interceptor sized by an
engineer or the grease trap manufacturer.
   (D)   Town staff will not be responsible for actual sizing of any traps.
This will be performed by the business having the trap installed.
   (E)   After the proper sizing is approved by town staff, the pre-cast unit
can be purchased and installed at the owner’s expense.
   (F)   After installment, the plumbing should be inspected by the Plumbing
Inspector.
   (G)   Equations from the EPA design manual On-site Treatment and Disposal
Systems are used to check the adequacy of the proposed grease trap interceptor
based on the size, location, and running time of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 MAINTENANCE RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Traps should be cleaned only by licensed companies when approximately
75% of the grease retention capacity is reached.
   (B)   Even if less than 75% retention capacity is found on in-ground traps,
they should be cleaned a minimum of every 30 days.
   (C)   Under the sink indoor traps must be cleaned daily and documented.
Licensed companies are not required for these traps. Employees of the
establishment can clean these traps, but must sign a maintenance log and date
the time and employee doing the cleaning.
   (D)   More frequent cleaning may be required if conditions warrant.
   (E)   A facility must keep interceptor cleaning records on file that
indicate the following:
      (1)   Cleanout date and time of day;
      (2)   Name of firm performing cleanout;
      (3)   Signature of owner/manager; and
      (4)   Receipt from firm performing cleanout with signature of facility
owner/manager and signature of person performing cleanout.
   (F)   The town may be reimbursed for blockage cleaning by the owner of an
establishment if the blockages can be traced back to that establishment. If the
blockage cannot be linked, the owner may not be charged for the cleaning. The
owner may be required to increase the number of cleaning in per time period.
(Prior Code, § 51.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Monthly charges for water service
   
52.02   Water supplied on metered basis; exceptions
   
52.03   Use of water by Fire Department
   
52.04   Meter readings; bills rendered monthly
   
52.05   Security deposit
   
52.06   Connection fee
   
52.07   Tampering with water system equipment
   
52.08   Cross-connection control
Water Quality Protection
   
52.20   Definitions
   
52.21   Compliance with federal and state law
   
52.22   Unlawful connections
   
52.23   Inspection of property
   
52.24   Right of access
   
52.25   Existing conditions
   
52.26   Hazardous uses
   
52.27   Other connections
   
52.28   Installation of containment devices
   
52.29   New construction
   
52.30   Notification of consumer
   
52.31   Change in nature of use
   
52.32   Consumer responsibilities
   
52.33   Testing and maintenance of devices
   
52.34   Enforcement
   
52.35   Limitation of liability
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MONTHLY CHARGES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Monthly charges for water service supplied by the water system of the town
are hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 7-1-1962; Ord. passed 10-1-1975; Ord. passed
12-1-1980)
§ 52.02 WATER SUPPLIED ON METERED BASIS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All water service shall be supplied on a metered basis, except
automatic sprinkler systems and private fire hydrants, which shall be charged a
flat rate or rental as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   A separate meter shall be installed for each dwelling, business
establishments, or other property subscribing to town water service.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed 7-1-1962)
§ 52.03 USE OF WATER BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Residents of the town shall not be charged for use of the water system by
the Fire Department or anyone assisting the Fire Department when such use is to
combat a fire.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 7-1-1962)
§ 52.04 METER READINGS; BILLS RENDERED MONTHLY.
   (A)   All water meters shall be read and bills rendered monthly, and shall
be due and payable at the time and place hereinafter prescribed.
   (B)   Any bill which shall be due and unpaid by the end of the fifteenth day
of the calendar month next following the end of the month for which billed,
shall be subject to an additional charge in such amount as established by a
schedule of fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board, and
if not paid by the twenty-fifth of the following month, the service provided
shall be disconnected and discontinued, and on payment of the delinquent bill,
there shall be added a reconnecting fee in such amount as established by a
schedule of fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board. A
copy of all such fee schedules shall be maintained and available for review
during normal business hours at the town hall. It shall be the duty of the
person in charge of collecting water bills to notify the maintenance supervisor
of the water system of all customers whose bill is delinquent; and it shall be
the duty of such supervisor to cause the water service to such customer to be
disconnected, if not paid within the time above specified.
§ 52.05 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   For water service, upon filing of application for service, the
applicant shall pay a deposit with the Town Clerk in an amount established by a
schedule of fees adopted and amended from time to time by the Town Board, a
copy of which schedule shall be maintained and available for review during
normal business hours at the Town Hall.
   (B)   (1)   Such deposit, or so much thereof as is not needed to pay
delinquent bills, shall be returned to the customer on termination of use of
the water system.
      (2)   All such proceeds shall be maintained in a separate bank account,
and the Town Clerk and Treasurer is authorized, empowered, and hereby directed
to withdraw the deposit of a subscriber of so much thereof as is necessary to
pay the delinquent bill of such customer.
§ 52.06 CONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   For each new connection to the water system within the corporate
limits of the town and for each new connection to the water system beyond the
corporate limits of the town, the person or firm applying for water service
shall pay to the town a $1,000 connection fee for a standard three-quarter-inch
meter connection, up to a two-inch connection.
   (B)   A meter greater than two inches in size, or one in which the
installation requires the use of a contractor, the entirety of the contractor
fees will be born by the person or firm for whom it is being installed.
§ 52.07 TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other
association, directly or indirectly, personally or through agents and
employees, to tamper with, modify, change, or alter any water meter or
connection, or to make any connection to the water system, or to reconnect
service which has been discontinued for any reason without approval of the
proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord passed 7-1-1962) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   The Public Works Department installs backflow devices in all new connections
and actively seeks to retroactively install them in prior commercial
connections lacking in this protection. The Supervisor seeks to fulfill the
protections established in the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 300f et seq., the State Drinking Water Act being G.S. §§ 130A-311 et seq.,
and the State Building Code, as each pertains to establishing an effective
ongoing program to control potential sources of contamination of the public
water supply.
(Prior Code, § 52.08) (Res. passed 11-11-2003)
WATER QUALITY PROTECTION
§ 52.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle. An
approved AIR-GAP VERTICAL SEPARATION shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe. In no case shall the air-gap be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. Certified in writing by the operator in responsible charge as an
acceptable device or methodology for the purpose of backflow prevention.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, back-siphonage, any combination thereof, or other cause.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved effective device method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of device
required shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACKPRESSURE. Any pressure on any source of water other than the public
water supply that may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in a
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a backflow.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention devices as evidenced
by certification of successful completion of a training program approved by the
operator in responsible charge.
   CONFINEMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed within a private plumbing or distribution system to isolate a
localized hazard from the remainder of said system.
   CONSUMER. 
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation responsible for any property at
which water from the town’s public water supply is received. In the absence of
other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities
herein set forth, the owner of record shall be ultimately responsible.
      (2)   A backflow prevention device, as approved, installed at the point
of separation between the public water supply and a private service or private
distribution system or at the point of metering.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed at the point of separation between the public water supply and a
private service or private distribution system or at the point of metering.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves or because of ineffective check or backpressure valves, or because of
any other arrangement.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL COORDINATOR. The official position established and
authorized by the county or the town and/or the Neuse River Water and Sewer
Authority and designated by the operator in responsible charge to administer
and interpret this section and who shall be a certified tester.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved assembly composed
of two single, spring-loaded, independently operating check valves, including
tightly closing shut- off valves located at each end of the assembly, and
having suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE. An approved device containing two independently acting
check valves in series.
   FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
   INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain
sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An approved assembly containing an independently
operating spring-loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly must
be equipped with suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the
device and tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water and waterworks of the town and/or the Neuse
River Water and Sewer Authority and its customers outside the town limits, for
general use and which supply is recognized as the public water supply by the
State Department of Environmental Health and Natural Resources.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ). An
approved device containing within its structure two spring-loaded,
independently operating check valves, together with an automatically operating
pressure differential relief valve located between the two check valves. The
first check valve reduces the supply pressure a predetermined amount so that,
during normal flow and at cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the
checks shall be less than the supply pressures. In case of leakage of either
check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere,
shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves less than the
supply pressure. This device shall have suitable connections for testing the
proper operation of the device, including tightly closing shut-off valves
located at each end of the device.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.21 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW.
   The town will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act being 42
U.S.C. §§ 300f et seq., the State Drinking Water Act being G.S. §§ 130A-311 et
seq., and the State Building Code, which pertain to cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes, and interconnections, and establish an effective ongoing
program to control potential sources of contamination of the public water
supply.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, or interconnection to be made; or allow one to exist for any purpose
whatsoever.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be the duty, upon request of the operator in responsible charge, of
the Cross-Connection Coordinator to cause inspections to be made of properties
served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the public water
supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections
shall be set by the operator in responsible charge.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.24 RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The operator in responsible charge, or authorized representative, shall have
the right to enter, at reasonable time, any nonresidential property served by a
connection to the town’s public water supply for the purpose of performing the
duties of this subchapter. In those cases in which the property owner chooses
not to provide such access, the operator in responsible charge, or authorized
representative, may designate the location as a high hazard in accordance with
§
52.26.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.25 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   Any consumer shall be allowed 90 days to correct any cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes, interconnections, or other hazard as defined by §
52.26, in violation of the provisions of this subchapter. The 90 days will be
from the date of receipt of the notification given by the Cross- Connection
Coordinator.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.26 HAZARDOUS USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be classified as hazardous uses:
      (1)   Hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps and tanks
handling sewage, radioactive, lethal, or toxic substances, boiler and steam
connections, sewer waste lines, low inlets to receptacles containing toxic
substances, coils or jackets used as heat exchangers, flush valve toilets
without vacuum breaks, bacterial and viral materials, private wells or other
private water supply, irrigation systems, water systems or hose connections
with booster pumps, carbonation equipment, or similar hazard potential as
determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator;
      (2)   Any location at which the nature or mode of operations within a
premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing or at
which there is a likelihood in the determination of the Cross-Connection
Coordinator that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or
disconnected; and
      (3)   Any facility which contains, but is not limited to, a bottling
plant, cannery, building(s) having five or more stories, battery manufacturer,
exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye works, film
laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry, metal
fabricating operations, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, those fire
sprinkler systems equipped with facilities for introduction of freeze
preventive chemicals or other substances other than water, dental office, any
radioactive material, restaurant, shopping mall with tenant conducting any
activity listed in this section, and sewage pump or treatment facilities.
   (B)   All installations described in this section shall be deemed hazardous
uses, and must have a containment device in the form of a reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention device, provided that, if the consumer demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Cross-Connection Coordinator that sufficient internal
confinement devices have been installed and tested. The Cross-Connection
Coordinator may require that the consumer provide engineering drawings sealed
by a professional engineer of installations within the premises, which provide
complete internal protection against cross-connection as approved by the Cross-
Connection Coordinator. Any such connection shall be considered another
connection for determining the type of containment device required. Each
internal confinement device shall be one of the following, as approved by the
operator in responsible charge or his or her authorized representative: reduced
pressure zone principle backflow prevention device, double check valve backflow
prevention device, air gap, vacuum break-pressure type, or dual check valve.
Each reduced pressure zone principal backflow prevention device serving as an
internal confinement device shall have a mesh strainer immediately upstream of
the inlet gate valve. Pressure washers not using injection cleaning solutions
may be used if all outside spigots have at least vacuum breakers installed.
   (C)   No person shall fill any tanks or tankers which include the following:
those containing pesticides, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals or residues,
flush trucks, street sweepers, and non-potable water tankers from a public
water system except with an approved air gap fill or an approved reduced
pressure backflow preventer properly installed on the tank or tanker or on the
public water supply fill pipeline or hose.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Services to single family residential units, not otherwise required by
this code to have other containment devices, may have a containment device in
the form of an approve dual check valve on all such services which meters are
applied more than 90 days following the date of adoption of this subchapter,
said dual check valves or other containment devices as required shall be
installed by the owner’s representative prior to the installation of the meter
by the operator in responsible charge. On all such services for which meters
have been applied prior to that date, said dual check valve shall be installed
by the operator in responsible charge, provided that the town reserves the
right to charge the owner or occupant of any residence for the cost of said
device and its installation. Maintenance of dual check valve containment
devices installed in accordance with this section shall be conducted by the
operator in responsible charge. Testable containment devices that are required
on lawn irrigation water systems and must be tested every three years by a
contractor that has been approved by the town or the Neuse River Water and
Sewer Authority.
   (B)   All other connection to the public water supply of the town and/or the
Neuse River Water and Sewer Authority shall have containment devices in the
form of a double check valve backflow prevention device as set forth in this
section. This shall include water mains installed to town and/or Neuse River
Water and Sewer Authority standard, and with town supervision, but which are
not maintained by the town, including, but not limited to, manufactured home
parks, apartments, group housing projects, and other private distribution
systems, or similar hazard potential as determined by the operator in
responsible charge, or his or her authorized representative. Private
distribution systems shall be configured so as to provide looped mains, with
two or more containment devices on each building water service connection and
at dead-end branch mains.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.28 INSTALLATION OF CONTAINMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The containment devices shall be located off street right-of-way on
the water main side of any plumbing connections. When installed in a building,
the device shall be located on the service line immediately after its entrance
into the building. Each containment and confinement device shall be installed
in a location that is physically accessible for inspection and testing as
determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator. Containment devices which have
been buried in the ground do not satisfy the provisions of this code. Each
reduced pressure principle zone device shall be installed such that flooding of
the device is unlikely as determined by the Cross-Connection Coordinator.
   (B)   The operator in responsible charge shall maintain a list of approved
manufacturers and models of hazard containment devices and drawings of standard
installation, copies to be made available through the Office of the Public
Utilities and the Chief Inspector’s office. All reduced pressure zone principle
backflow prevention devices and double check valve backflow prevention devices
shall be approved by the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic
Research. All vacuum breaks and dual check valve devices shall be approved by
the American Society for Sanitary Engineers. All installations and materials
shall conform to town standards as set by the operator in responsible charge.
   (C)   In those cases in which containment and/or confinement devices have
been previously installed by prior owners, the town, or other parties, the
responsibility for maintenance, testing, and replacement as applicable shall be
with the consumer.
   (D)   The cost of said means of containment, and any other plumbing
modifications necessary and convenient thereto, and the testing and maintenance
thereof is to be paid for by the consumer.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All buildings, proposing to connect to the public water system of the town
receiving building permits, on or after the effective date of this subchapter,
shall be equipped with an approved and tested as properly functioning backflow
prevention device(s), as prescribed herein, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of code compliance for that building. If a building permit was
issued for the building prior to the effective date of this subchapter, or a
building permit was not required, the building shall be considered to be an
existing building prior to the effective date, in accordance with §
52.23.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 NOTIFICATION OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   Upon identification of a hazard, or hazard potential, as defined in §§
52.26 and
52.27, the Cross- Connection Coordinator shall notify the consumer of record of
the property on which the hazard exists of the following:
      (1)   Location of hazard;
      (2)   Nature of hazard observed;
      (3)   Date hazard observed;
      (4)   Section of code applicable; and
      (5)   Requirements of code.
   (B)   Such notification to be made by certified mail, with return receipt
requested.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.31 CHANGE IN NATURE OF USE.
   The operator in responsible charge shall be notified by the consumer the
nature of use of the property changes so as to change the hazard classification
of that property, as set forth in §§
52.26 and
52.27.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.32 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The consumer shall, upon notification, as defined in §
52.30, install the hazard containment device(s) as required within 90 days from
the date of notification.
   (B)   If, after expiration of 90 days, the containment device(s) has not
been installed in conformance with standards set by the operator in responsible
charge, in a proper working condition, the operator in responsible charge may
discontinue the public water supply service at that premises, and service shall
not be restored until such devices have been installed. The operator in
responsible charge may permit an extension of up to 90 additional days if
compliance efforts are underway and the existence of hardship can be
demonstrated.
   (C)   The town shall bear no liability for direct or consequential damages
proximately caused by the discontinuance of service pursuant to this section.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE OF DEVICES.
   The consumer at each property at which containment and/or confinement device
(s) have been installed, except those with devices installed in accordance with
§
52.27(A) of this code, shall have each containment and/or confinement device(s)
tested on an annual basis, and perform any routine maintenance to such device
as recommended by the manufacturer, and provide the Cross-Connection
Coordinator with a report of that inspection and work. The consumer shall cause
such maintenance, or repairs to be made, rendering the device fully
operational. Failure of the consumer to perform that testing and maintenance
shall be cause for the premises to be deemed an immediate public health hazard.
The operator in responsible charge may immediately thereafter discontinue
public water supply service to that premises, and service shall not be restored
until such devices have been rendered operational. Where the use of water is
critical to the continuance of normal operations or protection of life,
property, or equipment, duplicated containment or confinement devices shall be
provided by the property owner to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water
service to test or repair the device or devices.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter may subject the offender
to a civil penalty to be recovered by the town. If the offender does not pay
the penalty within 30 days after the assessment has become final by exhaustion
of the appeal process established by this section, or by failure to appeal the
assessment, the town, as its option, may:
      (1)   Cause the charges to become a lien upon the land or premises where
the violation occurred, and such lien shall be collected as unpaid taxes as
provided by G.S. § 160A-193; or
      (2)   Institute a civil action in the nature of debt to collect the
penalty.
   (B)   Any civil penalty shall be assessed by the Town Clerk, upon the
recommendation of the operator in responsible charge, and the approval of the
Town’s Board of Commissioners, and shall be based upon the reasonable estimated
cost of correcting the cited violation, the magnitude of the potential risk
posed to the public health, safety, and welfare by the violation, and the cost
of the public safety or other emergency response caused by the violation. The
Town Clerk shall serve written notice of the civil penalty assessment on the
offender and set out with reasonable care the basis of the amount so assessed.
   (C)   An appropriate equitable remedy, including a mandatory or prohibitory
injunction issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction, may endorse the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   The penalties and enforcement provisions established by this
subchapter may be applied in addition to or instead of the penalties
established by other sections of this code.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The town shall not be held liable, for any cause, for failure to detect any
unit failing to operate adequately, or failure to identify any specific hazard,
which may result in contamination of its public water supply, nor shall this
subchapter diminish the responsibility of any property owner, from whose
property a contamination of the public water supply may originate.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon conviction for violation of any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.08, a person shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor, subject to a fine not
exceeding $100 or imprisonment for 20 days, or both, imposed in the discretion
of the Court, unless the violation constitutes a felony under the General
Statutes, in which case, such violation shall be punished according to the
provisions of the General Statutes.
   (C)   The civil penalty for violation of any provisions of §§
52.20 through
52.35 shall not exceed $500 per day for each day of continuous violation, or a
cumulative or single civil penalty of $10,000. The civil penalty for willful
violation of any provision of §§
52.20 through
52.35 shall not exceed $1,000 per day for each day of a continuous violation,
or a cumulative or single civil penalty of $20,000.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-1-1962)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Starting vehicle at excessive speed prohibited
   
70.03   Right-of-way to be yielded to emergency vehicles
   
70.04   Turning vehicles at excessive rate of speed
   
70.05   One-way streets
   
70.06   Yield intersections
   
70.07   Stop intersections
   
70.08   Sirens
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a street within the corporate
limits of the town at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of the following speeds:
      (1)   Twenty mph in any district zoned “Residential,” and the town shall
cause signs to be erected giving notice of such speed limit; however, the speed
limit on State Highway 11, State Highway 241, and any other street or road
maintained by the state may be established by the state and may vary from the
provisions set forth hereinabove, and shall be as indicated by signs erected to
give notice of authorized speed limit; or
      (2)   At a rate of speed in excess of the speed indicated by signs
erected giving notice of the authorized speed limit.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 STARTING VEHICLE AT EXCESSIVE SPEED PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to start any motor-powered vehicle in motion at an
excessive rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO BE YIELDED TO EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to yield the right-of-way to any
police car, fire truck, or ambulance, providing such police car, fire truck, or
ambulance gives adequate notice of its presence.
(Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 TURNING VEHICLES AT EXCESSIVE RATE OF SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any motor-powered vehicle
around, or partly around, on any street, at any intersection, or on any
sidewalk at any excessive rate of speed.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   When any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless the
signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement
shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980)
§ 70.06 YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at an intersection
shall, and in obedience to the sign, slow down and yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian crossing the roadway on which he or she is driving and to any
vehicle in movement on the main traveled or through highway or street which is
approaching, so as to arrive at the intersection at approximately the same time
as the vehicle entering the main traveled or through street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or a traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a “stop” intersection and
indicated by a “stop” sign, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, or, if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting street where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting street before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The driver, having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection, shall proceed cautiously, yielding the right-of-way to all
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to stop at any red light
within the corporate limits of the town or to disobey any other traffic sign or
signal. For the purpose of this section, a red light means stop an amber, a
yellow light means caution and slow down, and a green light means go.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SIRENS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have attached to any vehicle
any siren of any kind, sort, or description, including bicycles. This section
shall not apply to police cars, fire trucks, or ambulances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sound any siren or like-
sounding instrument, gadget, or attachment. This section shall not apply to
police cars, fire trucks, or ambulances when on call.
   (C)   Chief fire officers can have sirens on their personal vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any provision of this title regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an
infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking on sidewalks prohibited
   
71.02   Parking time limited in certain areas
   
71.03   Blocking alleys
   
71.04   No parking areas
§ 71.01 PARKING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or to cause or allow the parking
of any vehicle, including trucks, automobiles, carts, wagons, and the like, on
any sidewalk within the corporate limits of the town, except that such parking
is permissible for purposes of loading and unloading, but then only for a
reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or to cause to be parked or stopped any vehicle
in one parking space at one time for a period greater than that allowed by
resolution and adopted by the Board of Commissioners when such parking period
regulation is so designated by proper sign at such parking space.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 BLOCKING ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or to leave anything in such a manner so as to
block any alley, driveway, or entrance.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 NO PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to park in any area, space, or lot when designated as a
no parking area, space, or lot by authority of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   One-way streets
      
III.   Stop intersections
      
IV.   Yield intersections
      
V.   No through truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the following speeds.
Street Location Speed Limit
Street                    Location                                  Speed Limit
                          From Front Street (SR 1106) to the
Broadway Street (SR 1103) eastern corporate limit, a point 0.1 mile 35 mph
                          east of SR 1109
Broadway Street (SR 1103) From Front Street (SR 1106) to Pine       25 mph
                          Street
Broadway Street (SR 1103) From Pine Street to the western corporate 35 mph
                          limit at the Duplin County line
                          Intersection with VFW Road to North Front
Carol Drive               Street, North Front Street to Kinston     20 mph
                          Boulevard
Central Avenue                                                      20 mph
                          From NC 11 to the southern corporate
Front Street (NC 241)     limit, a point 0.15 mile south of East    35 mph
                          New Street
                          From a point 0.1 mile north of Lynwood
NC 11                     Avenue to the western corporate limit at  35 mph
                          the Duplin County line
                          From a point 0.1 mile north of Lynwood
NC 11                     Avenue to the northern corporate limit,   35 mph
                          approximately 0.1 mile south of SR 1173
North Front Street        Intersection with Lynnwood Avenue to Bill 20 mph
                          Sutton Road
Park Circle               From Broadway to Earl Howard Road         20 mph
                          From Broadway Street (SR 1103) to
Turner Street (SR 1107)   southern corporate limit at the Duplin    35 mph
                          County line
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Sched. I) (Ord. passed 12-16-1971; Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Traffic on the following streets shall move only in the direction indicated:
upon Edwards Avenue around the cemetery, vehicular traffic shall move only in
the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are
erected and maintained where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Sched. II) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as “stop” intersections, and a
“stop” sign shall be erected at said intersections.
Street Location of Sign
Street               Location of Sign
Clay Street          Proceeding east at its intersection with North Pine Street
Clay Street          Proceeding west at its intersection with North Turner
                     Street
Circle Court         Proceeding east at its intersection with West Park Circle
Circle Court         Proceeding west at its intersection with Edwards Avenue
Debbie Street        Proceeding west at its intersection with Davis Street
East Hunter Street   Proceeding east at its intersection with Old Beulaville
                     Road
East Park Circle     Proceeding east at its intersection with West Park Circle
East Walnut Street   Proceeding east at its intersection with Jones Avenue
East Walnut Street   Proceeding west at its intersection with South Central
                     Avenue
Edwards Avenue       Proceeding east at its intersection with Earl Howard Road
Elizabeth Drive      Proceeding north at its intersection with Edwards Avenue
Elizabeth Drive      Proceeding south at its intersection with West Park Circle
Front Street         Proceeding north and south from Lynwood Avenue
Johnson Street       Proceeding east at its intersection with Leighton Drive
Jones Avenue         Proceeding south at its intersection with East College
                     Street
Lynwood Avenue       Proceeding east and west from Front Street
North Central Avenue Proceeding north at its intersection with Lynwood Avenue
North Central Avenue Proceeding south at its intersection with Lynwood Avenue
Old Craft Road       Proceeding east at its intersection with Old Beulaville
                     Road
South Pine Street    Proceeding south at its intersection with West Macon
VFW Road             Proceeding south at its intersection with Carol Drive
West College Street  Proceeding east at its intersection with South Pine Street
West Macon Street    Proceeding east at its intersection with South Pine Street
West Macon Street    Proceeding west at its intersection with South Pine Street
West Walnut Street   Proceeding east at its intersection with South Pine Street
West Walnut Street   Proceeding west at its intersection with South Pine Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Sched. III) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980; Ord. passed 10-13-
1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as “yield” intersections, and a
“yield” sign shall be erected at the intersections.
 
Street             Location
North Front Street Proceeding south at its intersection with Carol Drive
Stroud Avenue      Proceeding south at its intersection with Carol Drive
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Sched. IV) (Ord. passed 10-14-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. NO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   No through truck traffic shall be permitted on the following streets within
the municipality.
Street Location
Street         Location
Carol Drive    North from its intersection with the VFW Road to North Central
               Avenue
Central Avenue North from its intersection with Kinston Boulevard (NC 11) to
               Carol Drive
Front Street   North from its intersection with Kinston Boulevard (NC 11) to
               Lynwood Avenue
Johnson Street East from Kinston Boulevard (NC 11) to Leighton Drive
Lynwood Drive  East from its intersection with Bill Sutton Road to Kinston
               Boulevard (NC 11)
Lynwood Drive  West from its intersection with Kinston Boulevard (NC 11) to
               Bill Sutton Road
Pine Street    North from its intersection with West Broadway to Kinston
               Boulevard (NC 11)
Pine Street    South from its intersection with Kinston Boulevard (NC 11) to
               West Broadway Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 72, Sched. V) (Ord. passed 3-9-1976; Ord. passed 1-8-1980)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Angle parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle in the following locations.
Street Side Location
Street                Side Location
East Broadway Street* Both 50 feet from the intersecting edge of pavement of
                           North Pine Street
East Broadway Street* Both 25 feet from the intersecting edge of pavement of
                           South Pine Street
NC 11                 Both From the southern corporate limits northward to the
                           northern corporate limits
NC 241                Both From the southern corporate limits northward to its
                           intersection with NC 11
West Broadway Street  Both 50 feet from the intersecting edge of pavement of
                           North Pine Street
West Broadway Street* Both 25 feet from the intersecting edge of pavement of
                           North Pine Street
West Broadway Street* Both 50 feet from the intersecting edge of pavement of
                           South Pine Street
Note to table:
* These parking restrictions shall become effective immediately upon erecting
“No Parking - Here to Corner” signs.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sched. I) (Ord. passed 2-10-1978; Ord. passed 10-8-1985;
Ord. passed 11-10-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. ANGLE PARKING.
   Parking of vehicles on the following streets shall be angle parking.
 
Street               Side Location
Front Street         East Between Broadway Street and Walnut Street in the
                          space provided and marked
South Central Avenue West From Pink Hill Pharmacy to Walnut Street
                          From the southeast corner of South Pine Street and
South Pine Street    East West Walnut Street in the parking spaces provided and
                          as marked
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 73, Sched. III) (Ord. passed 3-9-1965; Ord. passed 3-24-1997)
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Riding bicycles, motor scooters, motorcycles, and similar vehicles on
sidewalks
Golf Carts
   
74.15   Authority to regulate
   
74.16   Definitions
   
74.17   Operation on public streets and roads
   
74.18   Registration required
   
74.19   Operation under the influence of an impairing substance
   
74.20   Liability
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 RIDING BICYCLES, MOTOR SCOOTERS, MOTORCYCLES, AND SIMILAR VEHICLES ON
SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle, motor scooter,
motorcycle, motor-powered cart, motor-powered vehicle, or battery-powered golf
cart on any sidewalk in the town.
(Prior Code, 70.09) (Ord. passed 6-11-1968) Penalty, see §
74.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.15 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-300.6, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to
regulate the operation of golf carts on any public street, road, or highway
where the speed limit is 35 mph or less.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
§ 74.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Town Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   GOLF CART. As defined by G.S. § 20-4.01(12b), or any successor statutory
definition. As of the passage date of the ordinance from which this subchapter
is derived, such definition reads as follows: “A vehicle designed and
manufactured for operation on a golf course for sporting or recreational
purposes and that is not capable of exceeding speeds of 20 mph.”
   OFFICIALLY SANCTIONED. Authoritative permission or approval that makes a
course of action valid.
   OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart that is moving or
has its key inserted and in the on position.
   PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS. Those streets, roads, and highways owned and/or
maintained by the town, including any associated right-of-way.
   TOWN. The Town of Pink Hill, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
§ 74.17 OPERATION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   It is unlawful to operate a golf cart on a public street or road within the
town unless the following requirements are met.
   (A)   The golf cart must display a valid registration sticker as provided in
§
74.18.
   (B)   The golf cart may only be operated on, or cross or travel over, public
streets and roads with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
   (C)   An operator of a golf cart must be at least 16 years of age. No person
shall operate a golf cart in violation of state law or town ordinances.
   (D)   Only the number of people the golf cart is designed to seat may ride
on a golf cart, and all passengers must be properly seated. Passengers shall
not be carried on the part of a golf cart designed to carry golf bags.
   (E)   Riders may not be transported in a negligent manner.
   (F)   No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater than
20 mph.
   (G)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (H)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations, and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the paved portion
of the roadway and must yield to all vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian
traffic.
   (J)   Golf carts may be operated in bicycle and pedestrian lanes on any
public streets and roads, provided they do not impede bicycle or pedestrian
traffic.
   (K)   Golf carts are not allowed to be driven on any sidewalks in town.
   (L)   Golf carts must be equipped with a rear vision mirror and rear
reflectors.
   (M)   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification number. Such equipment must include all
safety devices as installed by the manufacturer.
   (N)   No golf cart may be operated on public streets or roads between one
half-hour after sunset and one half-hour before sunrise unless equipped with
two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the golf cart) and
two operating tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of the rear of
the golf cart) which are visible from a distance of at least 500 feet.
   (O)   The operator must possess proof of liability insurance in an amount
not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on a public
highway in the state.
   (P)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may prohibit the
operation of golf carts on any street or road if the Chief determines that the
prohibition is necessary in the interest of safety.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.18 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No golf cart may be driven on any public street or road, or
right-of-way associated therewith, within the town, other than on a golf
course, or at properly designated golf cart crossings, without a registration
sticker being acquired from the Town Police Department attached to said golf
cart in a conspicuous place on the lower left windshield.
      (2)   Prior to being operated within the town, a golf cart must be
inspected by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. Upon successfully
passing an inspection, the golf cart will be assigned a registration sticker.
Inspections are due each year. Registrations may be issued at any time during
the registration period; however, all registrations shall be valid from July 1
until June 30 of the following year.
   (B)   An annual inspection and fee of $25 per golf cart will be charged by
the town for the inspection, permit sticker, and to cover the costs of
implementing and administering this subchapter. The Town Police Chief retains
the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit sticker from any golf
cart at any time for any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to ensure
the safety and well-being of the citizens of the town.
   (C)   Prior to receiving a golf cart registration sticker, the applicant
must produce proof of payment of the applicable golf cart registration fee and
provide proof of liability insurance.
   (D)   Registration fees may change without notice. Registration fees will
not be prorated due to date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.19 OPERATION UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF AN IMPAIRING SUBSTANCE.
   Operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing substance (i.e.,
alcohol or drugs) on a public road or highway is not a violation of this
subchapter, but a violation of state law, and is punishable as provided
therein.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
§ 74.20 LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety.
Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets. The
town in no way advocates or endorses their use in such a manner. By
establishing this subchapter, the town is merely attempting to address safety
issues as they relate to golf cart operation and usage. The adoption of this
subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that operation of golf
carts on public streets is safe or advisable, even if done in accordance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   As with any other form of transportation, all persons who operate golf
carts or any other vehicle do so at their own risk and peril and must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others. The town has
no liability under any theory of liability, and the town assumes no liability
for permitting golf carts to be operated on public streets.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any act constituting a violation, except as provided in §
74.19, of §§
74.15 through
74.20, or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall subject the
offenders to civil penalty of $50, plus the court costs and attorney fees
incurred by the town.
      (2)   If the offenders fail to pay the penalty within ten days of
receiving final written notice of violation, the penalty may be recovered by
the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt. Repeat offenders may have
the privileges granted by §§
74.15 through
74.20 revoked by the Town Police Chief and/or the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2014; Ord. passed 7-11-2023)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   NOISE
      
94.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Intent and purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Duty of owner to remove
   
90.04   Removal by town
   
90.05   Costs or removal; notice to owner
   
90.06   Sale of abandoned motor vehicles
   
90.07   Disposition of proceeds of sale of abandoned motor vehicle
   
90.08   Disposition of junked motor vehicles
   
90.09   Disposition of unidentified vehicles
   
90.10   Disposition of proceeds of sale of junked motor vehicle
   
90.11   Immunity
   
90.12   Limitations of provisions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the town to prohibit the abandonment of motor vehicles
on public streets or on public or private property within the town and the town
may enforce this chapter by removing and disposing of junked or abandoned motor
vehicles according to the procedures prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle shall be deemed to have been abandoned in
the following circumstances.
      (1)   It is left unattended upon a street or highway for longer than 12
hours in violation of a law or ordinance prohibiting parking.
      (2)   It is left unaccompanied on property owned or operated by the town
for a period longer than 72 hours.
      (3)   It is left unaccompanied on any public street or highway for a
period longer than five days.
      (4)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   An abandoned motor vehicle that also:
         (a)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
         (b)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
         (c)   Does not display a current license plate.
      (2)   Except that a vehicle which is located on private property and is
fully covered by a manufactured car cover and is not surrounded by overgrown
weeds or grass shall not be considered a junked motor vehicle.
§ 90.03 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   (A)   (1)   If a motor vehicle is abandoned or junked on a public street or
highway, it shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of such motor
vehicle to cause the removal thereof immediately and to pay all costs incident
to such removal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a motor vehicle owned
by him or her to remain abandoned on a public street or highway after notice
has been duly given to such person to have the vehicle removed.
   (B)   (1)   If a motor vehicle is junked on private property, it shall be
the duty and responsibility of the owner of such motor vehicle to cause the
removal thereof immediately and to pay all costs incident to such removal.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a motor vehicle owned
by him or her to remain junked on private property after notice has been duly
given to such person to have the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   Whenever any motor vehicle is abandoned or junked on a public street or
highway, or on property owned or operated by the town, or on private property,
any such vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, to a storage garage or area; provided, no
merely abandoned vehicle shall be removed from private property without the
written request or permission of the owner, lessee, or occupant thereof unless
the same has been declared by the town to be a health or safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)
§ 90.05 COSTS OF REMOVAL; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When an abandoned or junked motor vehicle is removed from private
property at the request of the owner, lessee, or occupant thereof, the person
at whose request such vehicle is removed shall be required to pay or otherwise
indemnify the town for any expenses incurred by reason of the removal and
storage of such vehicle. When the town removes a junked vehicle from private
property, due to a violation of §
90.03, the property owner shall pay to the town all administrative and real
costs incurred by reason of the removal. The vehicle owner shall pay to the
town all administrative and real costs incurred by reason of the towing,
storage, and disposition of the vehicle.
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle removed hereunder from any public street or
highway, or any property owned or operated by the town, or any private
property, shall pay to the town all reasonable costs incident to the removal
and storage of such vehicle and to locating the owner thereof.
   (C)   Written notice of each removal of an abandoned or junked vehicle and
of the possible sale or disposition thereof shall be given as promptly as
possible to the owner thereof at his or her last known address according to the
latest registration certificate or certificate of title on file with the State
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   Notice need not be given to the registered owner when the vehicle does
not display a license plate and the vehicle identification numbers have been
removed or defaced so as to be illegible.
   (E)   The owner of a towed vehicle may, within 20 days of the notice
required by §
90.06, request a hearing before the appropriate town official to contest the
towing and charges therefor, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-303.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 SALE OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   If an abandoned motor vehicle is worth $100 (value to be determined by the
town) or more and should the owner thereof refuse to pay the aforementioned
costs or should the identity or whereabouts of such owner be unknown and
unascertainable after a diligent search, it shall, after being held by the town
for 30 days and after 20 days’ written notice to the registered owner at his or
her last known address if his or her identity is known, and to the holders of
all liens of record against the vehicle, and to the State Department of Motor
Vehicles, be sold by the town at public auction. However, any person having an
interest in the vehicle may redeem it at any time before the sale by paying all
costs, including administrative and legal fees of the town, which have accrued
to date.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle shall be paid to the
town, and the town shall pay from such proceeds the costs of removal, storage,
investigation, sale, and liens, in that order. The remainder of the proceeds of
sale, if any, shall be paid over to the registered owner, or held by the town
for 60 days if the registered owner cannot be located with reasonable
diligence. If the owner does not claim the remainder of the proceeds within 60
days after the sale, the said proceeds will escheat to the state.
§ 90.08 DISPOSITION OF JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   With the consent of the owner, the town may dispose of any vehicle as
a junked motor vehicle without holding it for any prescribed period of time.
   (B)   Any unclaimed junked motor vehicle, as defined by this chapter, shall
be held for a period of at least 15 days. The owner of any such vehicle may
claim his or her vehicle during the 15-day retention period by exhibiting proof
of ownership to the town and after paying all reasonable costs incident to the
removal and storage of the vehicle plus administrative expenses. If, after the
vehicle is held 15 days, it remains unclaimed, the vehicle may be destroyed or
sold at private sales as junk. Within 15 days after final disposition of a
junked motor vehicle, written notice thereof shall be given to the State
Department of Motor Vehicles that the vehicle has been determined to be a
junked motor vehicle and disposed of as such. The notice shall contain as full
and accurate a description of the vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 DISPOSITION OF UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles not displaying a license plate and whose identification numbers
have been removed or defaced so as to be illegible may be destroyed or sold at
a private sale, without regard to value, after being held for 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
§ 90.10 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE OF JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle, after all costs of
removal, storage, investigation, and sale, and satisfaction of any liens of
record on the vehicle have been deducted therefrom, shall be held by the town
for 30 days and paid to the registered owner upon demand. If the owner does not
appear to claim the remainder of the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of
the vehicle, the said funds will escheat to the state.
§ 90.11 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any abandoned, lost, or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as
contemplated by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.11)
§ 90.12 LIMITATIONS OF PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle in an enclosed building
or any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise, or to any vehicle which is lawfully used on a regular basis for
personal or business purposes, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place or manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.12)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   For any and every violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the premises where such violation has been committed or
exists, and any other person who knowingly commits, takes part in, or assists
in any violation, shall be held liable on conviction thereof and shall be a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4, for each and every offense following
notification. Each violation which continues beyond the limits as described in
§§
90.02 or
90.03 shall constitute, upon notification by the town, a separate offense
punishable in like manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.99)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   County animal control ordinance adopted by reference; enforcement by
county
   
91.02   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
91.03   Bird sanctuary
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; ENFORCEMENT BY
COUNTY.
   (A)   The most current edition of the Lenoir County Ordinance for the Humane
Control and Regulation of Animals is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the town request the county to enforce
the ordinance on the control and regulation of animals within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Res. passed 3-1-1980)
§ 91.02 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any cow, hog, or
livestock within the corporate limits of the town. Furthermore, it shall be
unlawful to keep or raise chickens, turkeys, or poultry within the corporate
limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 4-13-1982) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all
lands owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits is hereby
designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or otherwise kill, within
the sanctuary established by division (A) above, any native wild bird;
provided, that it shall be lawful to trap starlings or similar birds or fowl
when such birds or fowl are found to be congregating in such numbers in a
particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or
property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the area hereby
established, to shoot or project any stone, rock, shot, or other hard substance
by means of sling shot, bean shooter, air rifle, pip-gun, bow, or other similar
contrivance, or to fire any pistol, gun, or other firearm within the area,
except on archery ranges, firing ranges, or in legally established shooting
galleries or ranges, or in the discharge of duty of law enforcement officers;
provided, that use of firearms in the destruction of rodents or similar animals
or reptiles that are considered a menace to public health or property is
permitted.
   (D)   The Garden Clubs of the town are hereby granted permission to erect
such artistic signs, giving notice of the regulations herein provided, at such
places and of such design as may be approved by the Commissioners of the town
in session.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 10-18-1965) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not more than $100 or
imprisoned not more than 20 days.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. passed 10-18-1965; Ord. passed 4-13-1982)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Burials other than in lawfully established cemeteries prohibited
   
92.02   Cemetery permit required
§ 92.01 BURIALS OTHER THAN IN LAWFULLY ESTABLISHED CEMETERIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to inter or bury, or cause to be buried,
the body of any deceased person at any place within the town other than in any
municipally-owned cemetery or such other cemetery as has been lawfully
established.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 3-16-1964) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CEMETERY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person, firm, or corporation shall establish a cemetery within
the corporate limits, such person, firm, or corporation shall be required to
obtain a cemetery permit from the Board of Commissioners. Before issuing a
cemetery permit, the Board shall first determine that the proposed cemetery
will be operated in accordance with the laws of the state, and the applicant
shall be required to furnish such evidence to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 3-16-1964) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: NOISE
Section
   
93.01   Loud and raucous noises prohibited
   
93.02   Enumeration of specific noises which are prohibited
   
93.03   Operation of radios, boomboxes, or other mechanical sound-making
devices or instruments in vehicles; exceptions
   
93.04   Limited exceptions
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noises, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 93.01 LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make, continue, or cause to
be made or continued any LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE, which term shall mean any
sound which, because of its volume level, duration, and character, annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, health, peace, or safety of
reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities within the limits of the town. The
term includes the kinds of noise generated by the activities enumerated in §§
93.02 and
93.03. The term shall be limited to LOUD AND RAUCOUS NOISE heard from the
public streets, in any public park, in any school or public building, or upon
the grounds thereof while in use, in any church or hospital or upon the grounds
thereof while in use, in any parking lot open to members of the public as
invitees or licensees, in any occupied business unit which is not the source of
the noise or upon the parking lot or grounds thereof, or in any occupied
residential unit which is not the source of the noise or upon the grounds
thereof, and in any event from a location not less than 100 feet from the
vehicle, radio, loudspeaker, boombox, motor, horn, or other noise source, but
the maximum noise limitation standards shall not include noises emitted from
the following sources:
   (A)   Emergency warning devices or safety signals;
   (B)   Lawn care equipment and agricultural field equipment used during the
daytime hours;
   (C)   Equipment being used for construction, provided that all equipment is
operated with all standard equipment manufacturer’s mufflers and noise-reducing
equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (D)   Parades, fairs, circuses, other similar public entertainment events,
sanctioned sporting events, sporting activities taking place in areas set aside
for such activities, or any activities normally associated with any of
divisions (A) through (C) above;
   (E)   Bells, chimes, and similar devices which operate during daytime hours
for a duration of no longer than five minutes in any given period;
   (F)   Emergency work; or
   (G)   Sixty-cycle electric transformers.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 ENUMERATION OF SPECIFIC NOISES WHICH ARE PROHIBITED.
   The following acts are specifically declared to be loud and raucous noises
in violation of this code, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
   (A)   The playing of any radio, CD or MP3 player, boombox, phonographs, or
other musical instruments or other mechanical sound-making device in such a
manner or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of any reasonable person of ordinary sensibility;
   (B)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any motor vehicle,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal, or if in motion, only as a warning signal as required by law or as a
danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the
vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (C)   The use of any gong or siren upon any motor vehicle other than police
vehicles, fire vehicles, ambulances, or other emergency vehicle;
   (D)   The use of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to create unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
   (E)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger, and the blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
at any time in an unnecessary long, loud, or shrill manner;
   (F)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any stationary
internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle engine, except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
   (G)   The creation of any loud and raucous noise on any street adjacent to
any school, college, church, hospital, or court of law while the same is in
session, which unreasonably interferes with the working of such institutions;
   (H)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show, or sale or display of merchandise, except by permit from the Police
Department;
   (I)   The use, in an offensive manner, of any mechanical loudspeakers or
amplifiers on trucks or other moving vehicles for advertising or other
purposes;
   (J)   The creation of any loud and raucous noise by the operation of an
airplane over the town by stunting, diving, or otherwise operating an airplane
for the purpose of advertising or otherwise; and/or
   (K)   The playing of any radio, CD or MP3 player, boombox, phonograph, or
other musical instrument or other mechanical sound-making device by a
pedestrian on the public streets or sidewalks in such a manner or with such
volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any reasonable
person of ordinary sensibility.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 OPERATION OF RADIOS, BOOMBOXES, OR OTHER MECHANICAL SOUND-MAKING
DEVICES OR INSTRUMENTS IN VEHICLES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or occupying a motor
vehicle on a street or highway within the limits of the town to operate or
amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape player, boombox, or other
mechanical sound-making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle so
that the sound is:
      (1)   Plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the motor
vehicle; or
      (2)   Louder than necessary for the convenient hearing by persons inside
the motor vehicle in areas adjoining churches, schools, or hospitals.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
motor vehicle equipped with any communications device necessary in the
performance of law enforcement duties or to any emergency vehicle equipped with
any communication device necessary in the performance of any emergency
procedures.
   (C)   Provisions of this section do not apply to motor vehicles used for
business or political purposes, which, in the normal course of conducting such
business, use sound-making devices and have obtained the proper permit from the
Police Department. The provisions of this section shall not be deemed to
prevent the town, with respect to streets and highways under its jurisdiction
and within the reasonable exercise of its police power, from regulating the
time and manner in which such business or political activity may be operated.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 LIMITED EXCEPTIONS.
   Limited exceptions from this chapter:
   (A)   Sound coming from scheduled outdoor athletic events, community
concerts, theatrical events, practice sessions or performances of bands, and
community fairs that are sponsored or sanctioned by the town;
   (B)   Noise from noisemakers on holidays or fireworks on holidays or at
other times allowed under a pyrotechnics permit issued pursuant to G.S. §§ 14-
410 through 14-415; and
   (C)   Noise resulting from parades, lawful picketing, or other public
demonstration protected by the U.S. Constitution or federal law, or for which a
local permit has been granted by the town, provided such activity is of
temporary duration lasting no longer than two hours during any 24-hour period.
(Prior Code, § 93.04)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Nuisances and pollution prohibited
   
94.02   Existence of certain conditions to constitute public nuisance
   
94.03   Investigation to determine existence of public nuisance
   
94.04   Order to abate public nuisance
   
94.05   Failure to abate public nuisance; abatement by town
   
94.06   Cost of abatement
   
94.07   Failure to pay charges; lien created
   
94.08   Procedure deemed additional to other remedies
Weeds
   
94.20   Weeds, trash, and other debris prohibited; authority of town
Premises and Litter Control
   
94.35   Unauthorized accumulations
   
94.36   Overgrown vegetation
   
94.37   Accumulation of leaves, grass clippings, and the like on public ways
   
94.38   Neglect of a premises
   
94.39   Illegal dumping
   
94.40   Obstruction of rights-of-way
   
94.41   Enforcement
   
94.42   Adjudicatory hearing
   
94.43   Compost
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 NUISANCES AND POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any nuisance on his or
her property or the property of another which he or she occupies. This section
shall be construed to include any person or persons who cause or allow another
to violate any of the provisions of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or any other type association to permit any privy or stable to be
located so near any ditch, drain, or stream so as to pollute such ditch, drain,
or stream. This section shall be construed to include any person or persons,
any type business association, or corporation that allows, permits, causes, or
procures any person to do any of the acts prohibited by this section.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 EXISTENCE OF CERTAIN CONDITIONS TO CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 12 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health; and/or
   (C)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The town, upon knowledge of a complaint from any person of the existence of
any of the conditions described in §
94.02, shall make such investigation as may be necessary to determine whether,
in fact, such conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as declared
in §
94.02.
(Prior Code, § 94.03)
§ 94.04 ORDER TO ABATE PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Upon a determination that such conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the town shall notify, in writing, the owner, occupant, or person in
possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting such
public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within ten days
from the receipt of such written notice.
(Prior Code, § 94.04)
§ 94.05 FAILURE TO ABATE PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If any person, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within ten days from receipt of the order, the town shall cause the condition
to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or other
designated persons to go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate such
nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the
town. Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within
the time allowed by this subchapter, request the town in writing to remove such
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making such request.
(Prior Code, § 94.05)
§ 94.06 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel of land,
and it shall be the duty of the town to mail a statement of such charges to the
owner or other person in possession of such premises with instructions that
such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the hand delivery thereof
or by depositing a copy of said statement in a properly addressed, post-paid
wrapper in a Post Office or other depository under the exclusive custody of the
United States Postal Service.
§ 94.07 FAILURE TO PAY CHARGES; LIEN CREATED.
   (A)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days from the hand delivery of a statement of charges as
provided for in §
94.06, or the depositing a copy of said statement in a properly addressed,
post-paid wrapper in a Post Office or other depository under the exclusive
custody of the United States Postal Service, such charges shall become a lien
upon the land or premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be
collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
   (B)   The expense of the action is also a lien on any other real property
owned by the person in default within the city limits or within one mile of the
city limits, except for the person’s primary residence. A lien established
pursuant to this division (B) is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment. This division (B) shall not apply if the person
in default can show that the nuisance was created solely by the actions of
another.
§ 94.08 PROCEDURE DEEMED ADDITIONAL TO OTHER REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm, or corporation violating the
provisions of this subchapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 94.08)
WEEDS
§ 94.20 WEEDS, TRASH, AND OTHER DEBRIS PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY OF TOWN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any
representative or employee of such owner, lessee, or occupant, having control
of any property within the town, to allow or maintain thereon any growing
weeds, vines, bushes, undergrowth, or other wild vegetation, or any trash,
wreckage, or other debris of a noxious or unsightly nature, other than such is
incidental during the period reasonably necessary for the destruction or
construction of a building.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any of the provisions of this section and
shall, after notice from the town, fail to correct the same within the time
given in such notice, then the town may, through its employees and agents,
enter upon the premises and correct the violation, and the cost and expense
thereof, in addition to any criminal penalty imposed, shall, upon demand, be
paid by the owner, lessee, occupant, or agent, or it shall become a lien
against the property. Provided, that if the owner and his or her address is
known, he or she shall be sent a copy of the notice of violation by regular
mail. Otherwise, such notice to the owner is not required.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) Penalty, see §
94.99
PREMISES AND LITTER CONTROL
§ 94.35 UNAUTHORIZED ACCUMULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter, cast, throw, blow, place,
sweep, or deposit anywhere within the town any litter or plant material in such
a manner that it may be carried or deposited upon the right-of-way of any
street maintained by the town as shown on the most recent Powell Fund map, or
any road or highway maintained by the State Department of Transportation, such
areas being hereby referred to as “roadways.” Further, it shall be unlawful for
any person to scatter, cast, throw, blow, place, sweep, or deposit any such
litter or plant material anywhere within the town on any roadway, storm sewer,
sidewalk, lot, or premises, where there exists the possibility for such
vegetative waste to be blown, washed, or otherwise deposited in any roadway,
storm sewer, sidewalk, lot, or premises. Any unauthorized accumulation of such
litter off the premises of the owner of the property adjacent thereto is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 OVERGROWN VEGETATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant of a premises to fail to
cut overgrown grass, weeds, or other vegetation, when the grass, weeds, or
other vegetation shall exceed a height of 12 inches. This section shall apply
to occupied or vacant lots.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 ACCUMULATION OF LEAVES, GRASS CLIPPINGS, AND THE LIKE ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to blow, place, allow to be placed, or
to permit the accumulation of vegetative waste within roadways of the town.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.38 NEGLECT OF A PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to neglect a premises or create a
dilapidated condition on property. Violation of this section may be evidenced
by:
      (1)   Causing or allowing the accumulation of unsightly litter, overgrown
grass and weeds, foul odor, dead animals, junk, unsecured appliances, or
potentially dangerous devices to remain on or emanate from a premises; or
      (2)   Creating a littered condition by leaving materials which are
partially or wholly rusted, wrecked, dismantled, junked, or otherwise in an
inoperative condition and which are not completely stored within an enclosed
structure. Examples of such materials include, but are not limited to,
dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building materials,
automotive parts, tires, or any other items.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to authorized junk dealers or
establishments permitted to engage in repair, rebuilding, reconditioning, or
salvaging of equipment.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.39 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful to dispose of or discard any litter, junk, and the like
on any premises without the permission of the owner of the real property on
which the litter, junk, and the like is disposed or discarded.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.40 OBSTRUCTION OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow vegetation on any premises to protrude
or hang so as to obstruct the safe passage of pedestrians or motor vehicles.
This section shall not apply to the removal of fallen trees, dead trees,
shrubbery, bushes, and the like, on a premises where such do not protrude into
the roadway or pedestrian passageway.
   (B)   Further, it shall be unlawful to allow yard waste, bulky waste, and/or
junk to obstruct the safe passage of pedestrians or motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.41 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter and its component parts shall be enforced by the Town’s Code
Enforcement Officer appointed by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.42 ADJUDICATORY HEARING.
   (A)   Any person who has been assessed a civil penalty for a violation of
this subchapter may request an appeal hearing before the Town Board. Such
request must be made in writing, filed with the Town Clerk within 30 days of
the notice of assessment, and state the reasons why the civil penalty should
not have occurred. Failure to request an appeal hearing in the time and manner
specified shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the penalty.
   (B)   Any hearing shall be scheduled by the Town Clerk within a reasonable
amount of time after the person’s notice of appeal.
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside over the appeal hearing. The Board of
Commissioners shall receive evidence and testimony during the appeal hearing;
and render a determination, by majority vote, upon the evidence presented
during the appeal hearing. The Mayor shall vote only in the event of a tie vote
by the Commissioners, or vote to create a tie.
   (D)   Any aggrieved party may seek judicial review of the decision by filing
a written petition in the nature of certiorari within 30 calendar days after
receipt of the decision, but not thereafter, with the County Superior Court.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.43 COMPOST.
   This subchapter shall not prevent the preparation and use of compost so long
as compost piles are not greater than two cubic yards in size and are situated
more than ten feet from the edge of the right-of-way of any town-maintained
street, as shown on the most recent Powell Fund map or any road or highway
maintained by the State Department of Transportation. COMPOST shall refer to a
pile of vegetative matter that is a mixture of ingredients used to fertilize
and improve the soil. It is commonly prepared by decomposing plant and food
waste and recycling organic materials. Compost piles shall not include heavy
metals, hazardous substances, or industrial waste.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 94.20)
   (C)   (1)   A civil penalty in the amount of $150 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.35.
      (2)   A civil penalty in the amount of $150 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.36.
      (3)   A civil penalty in the amount of $150 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.37.
      (4)   A civil penalty in the amount of $150 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.38.
      (5)   A civil penalty in the amount of $500 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.39. Further, any person disposing of or discarding such material may be held
liable for the cost of properly disposing of such material and restoring the
property to its condition immediately prior to the disposition of such
material.
      (6)   A civil penalty in the amount of $150 may be issued by the Town
Board, in its discretion, to any person in violation of §
94.40.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Payment of tax, license required
   
110.02   Privilege license taxes levied
   
110.03   Duration; expiration
   
110.04   Taxes payable in office of Town Clerk
   
110.05   Application for license; issuance
   
110.06   Display of license required
   
110.07   License not transferable
   
110.08   Duties of Town Clerk
   
110.09   License tax schedule
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PAYMENT OF TAX, LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following taxes are levied and imposed as a city license for the
privilege of carrying on the business, exercising the privilege, or doing the
act named, and nothing herein contained shall be construed to relieve any
person or corporation from the payment of the tax prescribed herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to carry on any business or practice any trade,
avocation, or profession whereon a license tax is imposed without first having
paid the tax and obtained a license therefor. Each day the business shall be
carried on or the trade or profession is practiced without having a license
therefor shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. passed 6- -1958) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES LEVIED.
   Privilege license taxes are hereby levied and imposed for the privilege of
carrying on the business, exercising the privilege, or doing the act named, in
the corporate limits of the city, as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. passed 6- -1958)
§ 110.03 DURATION; EXPIRATION.
   Every license issued under this chapter, except as herein otherwise
expressly provided, shall be for 12 months, shall expire on June 30 next
succeeding the date of issue, and shall be for the full amount of the tax
prescribed; provided, that if the licensee begins such business or exercises
such privilege after the expiration of seven months of the current fiscal year
of the city, then such licensee shall be required to pay one-half of the tax
prescribed for 12 months.
§ 110.04 TAXES PAYABLE IN OFFICE OF TOWN CLERK.
   The license taxes levied on businesses, trades, professions, and occupations
of persons in the town by this chapter shall be payable at the office of the
Town Clerk. Said license taxes shall be collected on or before July 1 of each
year or whenever they become due as fixed by ordinance, and the amount fixed in
this chapter and as to each item shall be for one year unless otherwise
specified.
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   All persons or corporations, before engaging in any trade, business,
occupation, or profession whereon a license tax is imposed by ordinance, shall,
except as hereinafter provided, apply to the Town Clerk for a license so to do.
Upon payment of such license tax, the Clerk shall issue a license to the
applicant, stating therein the name of the person or corporation intending to
conduct such business or occupation, the character of the business, the
location of the same, and the period for which issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. passed 6- -1958) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All licenses to engage in any trade, business, occupation, or profession
must be prominently displayed in the place of business or carried by the
operator thereof and must be kept where it can be inspected by the proper town
officials.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. passed 6- -1958) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license or occupation tax shall be transferable or assignable, except
with the consent of the Town Board of Commissioners, and any license issued
shall be subject to revocation by the Board, provided, in their judgment, said
license is being abused.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. passed 6- -1958)
§ 110.08 DUTIES OF TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall make diligent inquiry as to all persons liable for
license taxes and shall collect license taxes from all persons who are liable
for the same and shall make report of the same to the Board of Commissioners,
as by law required.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. passed 6- -1958)
§ 110.09 LICENSE TAX SCHEDULE.
   The current license tax schedule in use by the town is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code the same as if set forth herein. The
current schedule is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   All person or corporations who shall violate the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as by law provided.
   (B)   Any person who shall engage in or carry on any business, trade, or
occupation herein taxed without paying the license tax hereby imposed for such
privileges shall be fined $100 for each offense, and each day during which such
business or profession shall be carried on without payment of such tax shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. passed 6- -1958)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Game room defined
   
111.02   License required; fee
   
111.03   Restrictions
   
111.04   Public hearing
   
111.05   Prohibited conduct
   
111.06   Rules for operation of game rooms and dance halls
   
111.07   Revocation of license
§ 111.01 GAME ROOM DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAME ROOM. Any place of business that principally operates mechanical games
or pay devices or tables for which charge is made either directly or
indirectly. Examples of GAME ROOMS, by way of illustration and not limitation,
are poolrooms, bowling alleys, billiard halls, amusement centers, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   In addition, every operator of a game room or dance hall shall apply
for and obtain a license from the Board of Commissioners to operate a game room
or dance hall. Application for such a license shall be filed with the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   An application fee of $100 shall be paid to and collected by the Town
Clerk when the application is submitted to cover the cost of administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room or dance hall within the
town without a license as required by division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, in its discretion, may refuse to grant a
license for any game room or dance hall if the Board determines that the
operation of said business would constitute a source of disorder and
demoralization or that the place proposed for the business is not a suitable
place. All places of business above mentioned shall be subject to inspection at
any time by any police officer of the town.
   (B)   The Board shall not issue a license to any applicant who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
      (2)   Is not a resident of the state;
      (3)   Is of immoral character; or
      (4)   Is a habitual user of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982)
§ 111.04 PUBLIC HEARING.
   No license shall be granted to any person to operate or conduct any game
room or dance hall within the town until notice of application for such license
shall be first advertised once a week for two weeks in a newspaper published in
the town and a public hearing held, in pursuance of such notice, before the
Town Board, and the application for license approved by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982)
§ 111.05 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not, and neither shall their employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football, or other parlay cards or gambling
boards or devices;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly; or permit
any profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon; or
   (C)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 RULES FOR OPERATION OF GAME ROOMS AND DANCE HALLS.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms and
dance halls within the town.
   (A)   All game rooms and dance halls shall be closed from 1:00 a.m. until 7:
00 a.m. Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game rooms
are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   Game rooms and dance halls may be open on Sunday only between the
hours of 1:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m.
   (D)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (E)   There must be an adult (18 years of age or older) managing the
business on the premises during hours of operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   After giving the operator of a game room or dance hall adequate notice and
an opportunity to be heard, the Board of Commissioners may revoke the license
of any game room or dance hall operator who:
   (A)   Violates the provisions of §§
111.05 or
111.06; or
   (B)   Is convicted of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic
drugs.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. passed 10-12-1982)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Discharging firearms
   
130.02   Pyrotechnics, transportation prohibited
   
130.03   Interference with police prohibited
   
130.04   Unlawful to refuse to render aid to police
   
130.05   Dumping garbage on property of another
   
130.06   Littering streets or sidewalks
   
130.07   Consumption of malt beverage or unfortified wine on town property
   
130.08   False alarms
   
130.09   Loitering for purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
   
130.10   Disturbing public meeting
   
130.11   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
130.12   Indecent exposure prohibited
   
130.13   Indecent acts prohibited
   
130.14   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge, fire, or shoot any gun,
pistol, rifle, air gun, or other type firearm within the corporate limits of
the town, except in case of necessity. This section shall be construed to
include the causing, soliciting, or procuring of any other person to do such
act or acts prohibited in this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PYROTECHNICS, TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any explosives or in any
manner set off dynamite, fire crackers, fireworks of all kinds, rockets of all
kinds, or any other explosive commonly referred to as “fireworks.” This section
shall be construed to include any person or persons aiding, abetting,
soliciting, or procuring any other person to do any of the acts prohibited by
this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation
to sell or cause to be sold or transported within the corporate limits of the
town any of the articles listed and included in division (A) above, but shall
not apply to interstate commerce unless the town is the final destination of
such shipment.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, molest,
oppose, or resist any police officer in the lawful discharge of his or her
duty. This section shall be construed to include any person causing another
person or persons to interfere with, hamper, molest, oppose, or resist any
police office in the discharge of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 UNLAWFUL TO REFUSE TO RENDER AID TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse, ignore, or in any way or
manner fail to render aid and assistance to any police officer in the
performance of his or her duty when called on to do so within the corporate
limits of the town, providing that this section shall not apply to those
persons who are physically handicapped by age or infirmity to such an extent
that such aid or assistance would be an unreasonable demand on such person.
This section shall be construed to include any person causing another to
violate any of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DUMPING GARBAGE ON PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump garbage, cans,
refuse, or any other type or kind of offensive material or matter on the
property of another. This section shall be construed to include any person or
persons causing or procuring another to do any of the acts prohibited by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 LITTERING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to litter any street,
sidewalk, or alley with paper, sweepings, rubbish, packing, or other refuse.
This section shall be construed to include any person who allows, permits,
causes, or procures another to violate the prohibitions contained in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 CONSUMPTION OF MALT BEVERAGE OR UNFORTIFIED WINE ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverage or
unfortified wine (as defined in G.S. Chapter 18B) on any property owned or
occupied by the town. For the purpose of this section, the term PROPERTY OWNED
OR OCCUPIED BY THE TOWN shall include town owned or maintained streets, rights-
of-way, sidewalks, alleys, easements, parking facilities, and any town owned
property whether located inside or outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply on any property owned by the town
where appropriate ABC permits have been obtained as required by law for the
consumption of malt beverage or unfortified wine for the period of time
permitted thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-1980; Ord. passed 8-10-1982) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.08 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall turn in a false alarm unless there is a reasonable basis to
suspect fire. This section shall apply to persons causing another to turn in a
false alarm.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 LOITERING FOR PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR, OR SELLER. A person who has, within
the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within this
state of any violation involving the use, possession, or sale of any of the
substances referred to in the State Controlled Substances Act, G.S. §§ 90-86 et
seq., or has been convicted of any violation of any substantially similar laws
of any political subdivision of this state or of any other state or federal
law.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot, or transportation facility, or the doorways and
entranceways to any building which fronts on any of those places, or a motor
vehicle in or on any of those places, or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   Regulation. It shall be unlawful for a person to remain on or wander
about in a public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the
purpose or intent to engage in a violation of any subdivision of the State
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq. Such circumstances shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping, or attempting to stop passersby,
or repeatedly attempting to engage passersby in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller;
      (5)   Such person repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby,
whether on foot or from a vehicle, money, or other objects;
      (6)   Such person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a law
enforcement officer or vehicle;
      (7)   Such person remains at or wanders about a location frequented by
persons who use, possess, or sell drugs; or
      (8)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor, or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-related
activities.
(Prior Code, § 130.10) (Ord. passed 9-19-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any public meeting or
exhibition within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, directly or indirectly, any
loud, unreasonable, or unnecessary noise within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 130.12) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 INDECENT EXPOSURE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose any of the private parts of
his or her body in any public place or to make such exposure in any place where
it can be seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 130.14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 INDECENT ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent act in public or
in any place where such can be seen by the public.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately- owned place of business operated for
a profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any
place of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      (10)   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the town, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the town, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation additional to the actions required by this division (D) as a
reasonable person would deem necessary, no exemption in division (C) above is
present.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
any section of this chapter for which no other penalty is provided, or failing
or neglecting, or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $100 or
imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, and each day that any of the provisions of
this chapter are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions and restrictions of §
130.08 shall be guilty of committing a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined not more than $50 or sentenced to jail for 30 days, or both, for each
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions and restrictions of §
130.09 shall be guilty of committing a Class 2 misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment
of not more than 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. passed 12-16-1952; Ord. passed 9-19-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Enforcement of building code and related codes by County Building
Inspector
   
150.02   Abatement procedures for dangerous buildings
§ 150.01 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING CODE AND RELATED CODES BY COUNTY BUILDING
INSPECTOR.
   The Board of Commissioners request the county to enforce the Lenoir County
Building Inspection Ordinance, the State Building Code, and related codes
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Res. passed 5-8-1979)
§ 150.02 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES FOR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Chief and Assistant Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department,
together or individually, are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed to
enter any and all buildings and premises within the corporate limits of the
town, at any reasonable hour, for the purpose of making inspection of the
buildings and premises to ascertain whether or not the same is dangerous to
life, health, or other property and whether or not the same is a nuisance.
   (B)   If, as a result of an inspection, the Chief or Assistant Chief is of
the opinion that a building or premises is dangerous to life, health, or other
property, or that the same is a nuisance, he or she shall immediately ascertain
the owners and occupants, or either if both is not to be ascertained, and
shall, as soon as practicable, notify the owners, occupant, or both by
registered mail. The notice shall state the following.
      (1)   An inspection has been made of certain buildings and premises, or
either, on a certain date.
      (2)   The same is a nuisance or is dangerous to life, health, or other
property, or both, setting out the reason therefor.
      (3)   If the recipient of such notice desires to be heard on the matter,
he or she has ten days within which to notify the Town Clerk in writing, a
simple registered letter being sufficient, that he or she desires to be heard
on the matter before final action is taken.
      (4)   If no request is made as provided in division (B)(3) above, the
Board of Commissioners will decide the matter and will, by ordinance, provide
for the necessary remedial action.
      (5)   The costs of remedial action ordered by the Town Board will be a
lien against the property involved, the same as ad valorem taxes levied by the
town and will be collected in the same manner as taxes.
   (C)   If a request for a hearing is made as provided above, the Town Clerk
will immediately notify the Mayor, who will in turn call a meeting, special if
necessary, of the Board of Commissioners at a time so that the interested
parties shall have ten days notice of such a hearing. When the Mayor sets and
calls the meeting or designates a regular meeting to hear and determine the
same, the Town Clerk shall immediately notify all interested parties by
registered mail of the time and place set for such meeting.
   (D)   At the meeting of the Board to hear and determine the matter, the
decisions of the Board shall be in form of an ordinance and shall provide the
necessary orders, notices, conditions, and provisions of remedial action.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
151.01   Obstructing streets
   
151.02   Drainage tile regulations
§ 151.01 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, to erect, build,
or leave, or to cause any person to erect, build, or leave any fence, monument,
or other obstruction on any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 DRAINAGE TILE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Control and supervision. The sizing, type, and placement of drainage
tile shall be under the general control and supervision of the Board of
Commissioners, and the system shall be operated as the Board of Commissioners
shall from time to time ordain and direct.
   (B)   Supervision.
      (1)   No drain tile used for installing a driveway shall be placed into
position until the area has been inspected by the Public Works Director, to
determine the proper size of tile to be used.
      (2)   No drain tile used to fill in a drainage ditch which is facing or
running parallel with a street or roadway belonging to the town will be
installed prior to an inspection by the Public Works Director.
   (C)   Installation. The Public Works Department will install drainage tile
to be used for a driveway at no cost to the property owner.
   (D)   Material costs.
      (1)   The cost of drainage tile to be installed in a driveway shall be at
the homeowner’s expense.
      (2)   The cost of the soil to cover the tile at a driveway shall be at
the expense of the town.
      (3)   The cost of drainage tile, soil, and catch basins when used to
enclose a drainage ditch will be borne by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 1-8-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Findings of fact; statement of purpose
   
152.02   Objectives
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.05   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.06   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.26   Floodplain development; application
   
152.27   Floodplain development; permit
   
152.28   Floodplain development; certification
   
152.29   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.30   Corrective procedures
   
152.31   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.45   General standards
   
152.46   Specific standards
   
152.47   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.48   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non- encroachment areas
   
152.49   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
152.50   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FINDINGS OF FACT; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health,
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (B)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.02 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds, and
the like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be
located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension of increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAMS. Programs approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior, in cooperation with the State Department of
Cultural Resources, through the State Historic Preservation Officer, as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as
amended in 1980, being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general or temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state, or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
FREEBOARD establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment,
recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in
1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-30, AE, A, A99, or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet or
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, or the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
152.05.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.25 through
152.31 and 152.45 through 152.50 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time
as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.04 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs), of the town and
within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by
resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.05 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
flood insurance study (FIS) for the county dated July 2, 2004 and its
accompanying flood insurance rate map panels (3466K and 34681), which are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial flood insurance rate maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Lenoir County Unincorporated Area, dated January 6, 1983; and
      (2)   The Town of Pink Hill, dated July 2, 2004.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.05.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.11 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor or designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT; APPLICATION.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities located within
special flood hazard areas. The following items shall be presented to the
Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
   (A)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
      (1)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
      (2)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on the
FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.05, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
      (3)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.05;
      (4)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.05;
      (5)   The base flood elevation (BFE), where provided as set forth in §§
152.05,
152.29, or
152.47;
      (6)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (7)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
   (B)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A, or AO will be floodproofed; and
      (3)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
   (C)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65) with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance
of floodproofing measures;
   (D)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of the
proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met.
These details include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid
foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation on
columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
      (2)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with §
152.46(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30.
   (E)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
   (F)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
   (G)   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
   (H)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or temporary
structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
152.46(F) and (G) are met; and
   (I)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation, when
applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.27 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT; PERMIT.
   The floodplain development permit shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   A description of the development to be permitted under the floodplain
development permit;
   (B)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.05;
   (C)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the reference
level and all attendant utilities;
   (D)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the protection
of all public utilities;
   (E)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
   (F)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall encroach
into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as applicable;
   (G)   The flood openings requirement, if in Zones A, AO, AE, or A1-30; and
   (H)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access, and limited storage only).
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
§ 152.28 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Elevation certificates.
      (1)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to the
actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure
to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be
cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
      (2)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
   (B)   Floodproofing certificate. If nonresidential floodproofing is used to
meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
   (C)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home is placed
within Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than
36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required in accordance with the provisions of §
152.46(C)(2).
   (D)   Certified report for watercourse alteration. If a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; a professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing
the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be
submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development
permit.
   (E)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located within
Zone A, AO, AE, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.46(F)(1);
      (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.46(G); and
      (3)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet, meeting
requirements of §
152.46(H).
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been received;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.49 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.28;
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.28;
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.28;
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
152.28 and §
152.46(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.05, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.47(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
152.05, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974,
being 5 U.S.C. § 552a, as amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.30;
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repositoty to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM, and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.05 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time, the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the Court.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Board, as established the town, hereinafter referred to
as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.03, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3), and (I)(5) below have
been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.03 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variance:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixhires, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of”new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.31(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
152.28.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.05 or
152.47, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.45, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
152.50(B)(2). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the floodproofing standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
152.28, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. §§ 143-143
through 143-143.15. Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an
elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the site, the
chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When
the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement: the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement: both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement: the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement: both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood, or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.45(A);
         (f)   All service facilities, such as electrical, shall be installed
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.45(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (D)(3) above.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
152.28.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
152.05, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.45, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20
feet each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream,
whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
152.45 and
152.46.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
152.46 and
152.49.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park, and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
152.05 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03. All other applicable provisions of §
152.46 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source but neither floodway nor non-
encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM
or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
152.45 and
152.46; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.49 FLOODWAYS AND NON- ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
152.45 and
152.46, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments, shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.46(C); and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (B)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.50 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
152.45 and
152.46, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (B)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §§
152.28 and
152.46(B).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET CLOSINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain territory lying and being in Pink Hill
-        8-4-1995    Township, Lenoir County, North Carolina, situated on the
                     north side of NC 1112 (Stroud Hill Road) containing 0.875
                     acres.
(Prior Code, TSO Table I)
                     Highway 11 North at the intersection of Pinewood Home
-        11- -1998   Road, the lot between Tar Heel Drive and J.C. Park Road,
                     including the water tower and park.
(Prior Code, TSO Table I)
-        - -1998     Approximately ten acres on Highway 11 North at the new
                     post office site.
(Prior Code, TSO Table I)
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Granting permission to the Carolina Power and Light Company to construct and
            maintain its lines for the transmission of electricity along, over, and under
-    12-12- the highways of the town and to conduct and carry on within the town the
     1961   business authorized by and under the terms of the charter of the Carolina
            Power and Light Company, and granting the rights and privileges for a term of
            60 years.
(Prior Code, TSO Table II)
-    1-11-  Amending the franchise ordinance to change Red’s T.V. and Cable Co. Inc. to
     1983   Pink Hill Cable T.V. Co. Inc.
(Prior Code, TSO Table II)
-    4-21-  Granting a cable television franchise.
     1999
(Prior Code, TSO Table II)
 
TABLE III: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-- -Closing and abandoning Pine Street from the intersection of Macon Street
280 south.
(Prior Code, TSO Table III)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section               Code Section
1-593                      10.12
Chapter 7A                 152.31
                           10.99;
14-4                       90.99;
                           94.08
14-4(a)                    10.99;
                           130.99
14-4(b)                    70.99
14-410 through 14-415      93.04
Chapter 18B                130.07
20-4.01(12b)               74.16
90-86 et seq.              130.09
90-95.2                    31.01
128-30(b)(1)               32.02
Chapter 130A Article 9     152.03
130A-290(a)(6)             152.03
130A-290(a)(35)            152.03
130A-290(a)(36)            152.03
130A-311 et seq.           52.08,
                           52.21
143-143 through 143-143.15 152.46
160A-60                    30.04
160A-63                    30.04
160A-71                    30.01
160A-155                   30.04
160A-184                   Ch. 93
160A-193                   52.34;
                           94.07
160A-288                   31.01
160A-300.6                 74.15
160A-303                   90.05
164-7                      10.14
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
30.06              30.06
30.07              30.07
30.08              30.08
31.01              31.01
31.15              31.15
31.16              31.16
31.17              31.17
31.18              31.18
31.19              31.19
31.20              31.20
31.21              31.21
31.22              31.22
31.23              31.23
31.24              31.24
31.99              31.99
32.02              32.01
32.03              32.02
33.02              33.02
50.01              50.01
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.05              51.05
51.07              51.07
51.08              51.08
51.09              51.09
51.12              51.12
51.13              51.13
51.14              51.14
51.15              51.15
51.25              51.30
51.26              51.31
51.27              51.32
51.28              51.33
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.07              52.07
52.08              52.08
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.06              70.06
70.07              70.07
70.08              70.08
70.09              74.01
70.99              70.99
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
Ch. 72, Sched. I   Ch. 72, Sched. I
Ch. 72, Sched. II  Ch. 72, Sched. II
Ch. 72, Sched. III Ch. 72, Sched. III
Ch. 72, Sched. IV  Ch. 72, Sched. IV
Ch. 72, Sched. V   Ch. 72, Sched. V
Ch. 73, Sched. I   Ch. 73, Sched. I
Ch. 73, Sched. III Ch. 73, Sched. II
90.01              90.01
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.11              90.11
90.12              90.12
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.99              91.99
92.02              92.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.08              94.08
94.20              94.20
94.20              94.99
95.01              151.01
95.02              151.02
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
130.01             130.01
130.02             130.02
130.03             130.03
130.04             130.04
130.05             130.05
130.06             130.06
130.07             130.07
130.08             130.08
130.10             130.09
130.11             130.10
130.12             130.11
130.14             130.12
130.15             130.13
130.17             130.14
130.99             130.99
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
TSO Table I        TSO Table I
TSO Table II       TSO Table II
TSO Table III      TSO Table III
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        5-8-1979    150.01
-        3-1-1980    91.01
-        2-8-1983    32.02
-        1-18-1994   32.01
-        9-19-1995   31.01
-        5-19-1997   50.01
-        11-11-2003  52.08
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     51.01-
                     51.03;
                     51.05;
                     51.07-
                     51.09;
-        - -         51.12;
                     51.13;
                     51.15;
                     52.20-
                     52.35;
                     52.99
                     94.35-
-        - -         94.43;
                     94.99
-        - -         150.02
-        - -         TSO Table III
                     31.15-
-        12-16-1952  31.24;
                     31.99
-        12-16-1952  130.08;
                     130.99
                     110.01;
                     110.02;
-        6- -1958    110.05-
                     110.08;
                     110.99
-        12-12-1961  TSO Table II
                     52.01-
-        7-1-1962    52.03;
                     52.99
-        3-16-1964   92.02
-        3-9-1965    71.03
-        10-18-1965  91.03;
                     91.99
-        6-11-1968   74.01
-        12-16-1971  71.03
-        10-1-1975   52.01
-        3-9-1976    71.03
-        2-10-1978   71.03
-        3-14-1978   71.03
-        1-8-1980    71.03;
                     151.02
-        6-23-1980   130.07
                     70.05-
-        10-14-1980  70.07;
                     71.03
-        12-1-1980   52.01
-        9-8-1981    31.17
-        4-13-1982   91.02;
                     91.99
-        8-10-1982   130.07
-        10-12-1982  111.01-
                     111.07
-        1-11-1983   TSO Table II
-        9-10-1985   51.15
-        10-8-1985   71.03
-        11-11-1986  31.15
-        8-4-1995    TSO Table I
-        9-19-1995   130.09;
                     130.99
-        3-24-1997   71.04
-        - -1998     TSO Table I
-        10-13-1998  71.03
-        11- -1998   TSO Table I
-        11-10-1998  71.03
-        4-21-1999   TSO Table II
-        6-15-1999   51.05
                     152.01-
                     152.11;
                     152.25-
-        11-9-2010   152.31;
                     152.45-
                     152.50;
                     152.99
                     74.15-
-        9-9-2014    74.20;
                     74.99
                     74.15-
-        7-11-2023   74.20;
                     74.99
                    
 
