TOWN OF PITTSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted through Ord. passed 1-8-2024; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 2
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
1.   Incorporation and general powers
2.   Exercise of powers
3.   Enumerated powers not exclusive
4.   Forms of government
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
5.   Existing corporate boundaries
6.   Extension of corporate boundaries
Article III. Mayor and Board of Commissioners
7.   Composition of board of commissioners.
8.   Mayor and mayor pro tempore
9.   Terms; qualifications; vacancies
10.   Organization of board of commissioners; oath of office
11.   Meetings of board
12.   Quorum
13.   Ordinances and resolutions
14.   Compensation of mayor and commissioners
Article IV. Election Procedure
15.   Election
Article V. Town Manager
16.   Appointment of town manager
17.   Powers of town manager
18.   Appointment and removal of officers
19.   Control of officers and employees
Article VI. Administrative Officers and Employees
20.   Town Clerk
21.   Town tax collector
22.   Town accountant
23.   Consolidation of functions
Article VII. Town Attorney
24.   Appointment; qualifications; term; compensation
25.   Duties of town attorney
Article VIII. Finance
26.   Custody of town money
27.   Independent Audit
Article IX. Police
28.   Police
29.   Effect of ordinance on town property
Article X. Street and Sidewalk Improvements
30.   Street improvements, assessment of costs
31.   When petition unnecessary
32.   Street improvement defined
33.   Sidewalks; assessment of costs
34.   Assessment procedure
35.   Effective assessment
Article XI. Water and Sewer
36.   Alternative methods of assessment
37.   Water connections
Article XII. Refuse, Weed and Trash
38.   Property kept free of offensive matter
39.   Removal of offensive matter; charges a lien
Article XIII. Claims Against the Town
40.   Presentation of claims; suit upon claims
41.   Settlement of claims by town manager
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
§ 1 INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Town of Pittsboro shall continue to be a body politic and corporate
under the name and style of the Town of Pittsboro, and shall continue to be
vested with all property and rights which now belong to the Town; shall have
perpetual succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at
pleasure, may sue and be sued; may contract, may acquire and hold such
property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any
manner conveyed or dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from
time to time hold or invest, sell, or dispose of the same; and shall have and
may exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions,
rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature.
§ 2 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the town, its
officers, agencies or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided by
this Charter, or, if this Charter makes no provision, as provided by ordinance
or resolution of the board of commissioners and as provided by the general laws
of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations.
§ 3 ENUMERATED POWERS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Pittsboro shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to
municipal corporations by the general laws of North Carolina, it would be
competent for this Charter specifically to enumerate.
§ 4 FORMS OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government of the Town of Pittsboro shall be the council-manager
form, as specified in this Charter.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
§ 5 EXISTING CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The present boundaries of the Town shall remain intact and are described as
follows:
   BEGINNING at a point in the center of the concrete bridge on Old Siler City-
Pittsboro Highway which bridge is located North about 70 degrees West
approximately 1,000 feet from Dark’s Hatchery and running thence from said
point of beginning South 27 degrees East a distance of approximately 7,600 feet
to a point in the center of Bernice Griffin driveway and running thence due
West along the center of said driveway a distance of 235 feet and thence South
5 degrees West a distance of 650 feet, thence South 67 degrees West a distance
of 475 feet, thence North 55 degrees West 200 feet, thence South 4 degrees West
750 feet to a point on the northern side of that driveway or road leading from
Highway 15-501 in a westerly direction beyond Harvey Brown’s house, thence
along and with the northern margin of said road due East a distance of 1,000
feet to a point in the western margin of the right-of-way of Highway 15-501 and
thence along the western margin of Highway 15-501 northerly a distance of 1450
feet to the center of Bernice Griffin’s driveway and westerly with center of
said driveway 75 feet, thence North 35 degrees East 8,400 feet to a point which
is located 500 feet due North from the intersection of the southern margin of
Thompson Street and the eastern side of a street running on the eastern side of
St. Andrews Christian Church and running thence from said point in a
northwesterly direction to a point located due North 675 feet from the center
of the intersection of Park Drive and Middle Street and thence South 55 degrees
West 650 feet, to a point on northern margin of Park Drive, thence along
northern margin of Park Drive, its various courses a distance of about 375
feet, thence North 18 degrees West 200 feet, thence North 35 degrees West 600
feet, thence South 10 degrees West 790 feet, thence South 68 degrees West 200
feet, thence South 14 degrees West 600 feet, thence South 55 degrees West 3,450
feet to the point of BEGINNING.
§ 6 EXTENSION OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 7 COMPOSITION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The board of commissioners shall consist of five members to be elected by
the qualified voters of the town voting at large in the manner provided in
Article IV.
§ 8 MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (a)   The mayor shall be elected by and from the qualified voters of the
town voting at large in the manner provided in Article IV. The mayor shall be
the official head of the town government and shall preside at all meetings of
the board of commissioners. Where there is an equal division on a question, the
mayor shall determine the matter by his vote, but he shall vote in no other
case. The mayor shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are or
may be conferred upon him by the general laws of North Carolina, by this
Charter, and by the ordinances of the town. The board of commissioners shall
choose one of its number to act as mayor pro-tempore, and he shall perform the
duties of the mayor in the mayor’s absence or disability. The mayor pro tempore
as such shall have no fixed term of office, but shall serve in such capacity at
the pleasure of the remaining members of the board.
   (b)   Any vacancy occurring in the officer of mayor shall be filled by the
board of commissioners from their number and any person so appointed shall
serve the remainder of the unexpired term.
§ 9 TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; VACANCIES.
   (a)   The members of the board of commissioners shall serve for terms of
four years, and the mayor shall serve for a term of four years, beginning the
day and hour of the organizational meeting following their election, as
established by ordinance in accordance with this Charter, provided, they shall
serve until their successors are elected and qualify.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or be elected as mayor
or as a member of the board of commissioners or to serve in such capacity,
unless he is a resident and a qualified voter of the town.
   (c)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of commissioner, the board
of commissioners shall by majority vote appoint some qualified person to fill
the same for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2023)
§ 10 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; OATHS OF OFFICE.
   The board of commissioners shall meet and organize for the transaction of
business at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the board following each
biennial election. Before entering upon their offices, the mayor and each
commissioner shall take, subscribed, and have entered upon the minutes of the
board the following oath of office.
I___________ do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and maintain the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitution and laws of
North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of my office as ___________, so help me, God.
§ 11 MEETINGS OF BOARD.
   (a)   The town board shall fix suitable times for its regular meetings,
which shall be as often as once monthly.
   (b)   All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board shall
not by executive session or otherwise formally consider or vote upon any
question in private session other than matters pertaining to personnel and
other matters allowed by general law.
   (c)   The mayor, the mayor pro tempore, or any two members of the board may
at any time call a special board meeting by signing a written notice stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered. The notice
shall be delivered to the mayor and each commissioner or left at his usual
dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting. Special meetings may be
held at any time when the mayor and all members of the board are present and
consent thereto, or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice. Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
§ 12 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members elected to the town board and serving shall
constitute a quorum for the conduct of business, but a less number may adjourn
from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
§ 13 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or approving of ordinance shall
be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the general laws of North
Carolina not inconsistent with this Charter. The yeas and nays shall be taken
upon all ordinance and resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the board.
The enacting clauses of all ordinances shall be: Be it ordained by the board of
commissioners of the Town of Pittsboro. All ordinances and resolutions shall
take effect upon adoption unless otherwise provided therein.
§ 14 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS.
   From the date of ratification of this act, the mayor shall, until
appointment of a town manager receive a salary of two thousand dollars ($2,000)
per year and after appointment of a town manager the mayor shall receive the
sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) for each regular and special meeting attended,
not to exceed the sum of one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200) per year.
Each commissioner shall from the date of ratification of this act receive the
sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each regular and special meeting
attended, not to exceed the sum of one thousand ($1,000) per year. The board of
commissioners shall have authority to alter the compensation herein fixed as by
general law provided.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE
§ 15 ELECTION.
   On Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1973, and every four years
thereafter there shall be elected two commissioners, and on Tuesday after the
first Monday in November, 1975, and every four years thereafter, there shall be
elected three commissioners. The present members shall serve until their terms
expire. On Tuesday after the first Monday in November, 1973, and every two
years therefore there shall be elected a mayor.
ARTICLE V. TOWN MANAGER
§ 16 APPOINTMENT OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town manager who shall be the
administrative head of the town government responsible for the supervision and
administration of all departments and employees except the town attorney. The
town manager shall be appointed with regard to merit only, and he need not be a
resident of the town at the time of his appointment. He shall hold office
during the pleasure of the board of commissioners and shall receive such
compensation, as it shall fix by ordinance.
§ 17 POWERS OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The town manager so appointed shall:
   (a)   Be the administrative head of the town government;
   (b)   See that within the town the laws of the State and the ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations of the board of commissioners are faithfully
executed;
   (c)   Attend all meeting of the board of commissioners, and recommend for
adoption such measures as he shall deem expedient;
   (d)   Make reports to the board of commissioners from time to time upon the
affairs of the town, and keep the board fully advised of the town’s financial
condition and its future financial needs;
   (e)   Appoint and remove all employees of the town, except the town
attorney, and all appointments and removals of department heads made by the
manager shall be reported to the board of commissioners at its next succeeding
meeting; and
   (f)   Perform all other duties as may be required by the board of
commissioners.
§ 18 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   Such municipal officers and employees as the governing body shall determine
as necessary for the proper administration of the town shall be appointed by
the manager, and any such officer or employee may be removed by him; but the
manager shall report every such appointment and removal to the governing board
at the next meeting thereof following any such appointment or removal.
§ 19 CONTROL OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The officers and employees of the municipality shall perform such duties as
may be required of them by the manager, under general regulations of the
governing board.
ARTICLE VI. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 20 TOWN CLERK.
   The town manager may appoint a town clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the board of commissioners and to maintain in a safe place all
records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the town, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or as the town manager may direct.
§ 21 TOWN TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Town manager may appoint a tax collector to collect all taxes, licenses,
fees and other moneys belonging to the town, and he shall diligently comply
with and enforce all the general laws of North Carolina relating to the
collection, sale, and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
§ 22 TOWN ACCOUNTANT.
   The town manager may appoint a town finance officer to perform the duties of
the finance officer as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.
§ 23 CONSOLIDATION OF FUNCTIONS.
   The town manager may, with the approval of the board of commissioners,
consolidate any two or more of the positions of town clerk, town tax collector,
and town finance officer, or may assign the functions of any one or more of
these positions to the holder or holders of any other of these positions. The
town manager may also, with the approval of the board of commissioners himself
perform all or any part of the functions of any of the named offices, in lieu
of appointing other persons to perform the same.
ARTICLE VII. TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 24 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM; COMPENSATION.
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town attorney who shall be an
attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and
who need not be a resident of the town during his tenure. The town attorney
shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall receive such compensation,
as the board shall determine.
§ 25 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the town attorney to prosecute and defend suits for
and against the town; to advise the mayor, board of commissioners, town
manager, and other town officials with respect to the affairs of the town; to
draw all legal documents relating to the affairs of the town; to draw proposed
ordinances when requested to do so; to inspect and pass upon all agreements,
contracts, franchises and other instruments with which the town may be
concerned; and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue
of his position of town attorney.
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE
§ 26 CUSTODY OF TOWN MONEY.
   All monies received by the town for or in connection with the business of
the town government shall be paid promptly into the town depository or
depositories. Such institutions shall be designated by the town board in
accordance with such regulations and subject to such requirements as to
security for deposits and interest thereon as may be established by the General
Statues of North Carolina. All interest on monies belonging to the town shall
accrue to the benefit of the town. All monies belonging to the town shall be
disbursed only in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act.
§ 27 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the town government in
accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
ARTICLE IX. POLICE
§ 28 POLICE.
   The jurisdiction of the police force is hereby extended three miles beyond
the corporate boundaries, and is further extended to include all town-owned
property and facilities whether located within or outside the corporate limits,
and all members of the police force shall have upon and within such property
and facilities all rights, power and authority as they have within the
corporate limits.
§ 29 EFFECT OF ORDINANCE ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   All applicable ordinances of the town shall have full force and effect upon
and within all property and facilities owned by the town, whether located
within or outside the corporate limits.
ARTICLE X. STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
§ 30 STREET IMPROVEMENTS, ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by
general law to the town for making street improvements, the board of
commissioners is hereby authorized to make street improvements and to assess
the total cost thereof against abutting property owners in accordance with
provisions of this Article.
§ 31 WHEN PETITION UNNECESSARY.
   The board of commissioners may order street improvements and assess the cost
thereof, exclusive of the cost incurred at street intersections, against the
abutting property owners at an equal rate per front foot, without the necessity
of a petition, upon the finding by the board as a fact:
   (a)   That the street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear feet,
and
   (b)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic and
it is in the public interest to make sure improvement, or
   (c)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved, or
   (d)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved; provided, that assessments for widening any street
or portion of street without petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the town’s thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened
and improved under the authority granted by this Article.
§ 32 STREET IMPROVEMENT DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this Article, the term “street improvement” shall
include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving,
the acquisition of right-of-way, and the construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters and street drainage facilities.
§ 33 SIDEWALKS; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by the
General Statutes to the town for making sidewalk improvements, the board of
commissioners is hereby authorized to order to be made or to make sidewalk
improvements or repairs without petition according to standards and
specifications of the town, and to assess the total cost thereof against the
abutting property owners.
   If a sidewalk is constructed on only one side of the street and in a
residential zone the cost thereof may be assessed against the abutting
property.
§ 34 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a petition and
assessing the cost thereof under authority of this Article, the board of
commissioners shall comply with the procedure provided by the General Statutes,
except those provisions relating to the petition of property owners and the
sufficiency thereof.
§ 35 EFFECTIVE ASSESSMENT.
   The effect of the act levying assessments under the authority of this
Article shall for all purposes be the same as if assessed and levied under
authority of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
ARTICLE XI. WATER AND SEWER
§ 36 ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF ASSESSMENT.
   In addition to, and as alternatives to the method provided in the General
Statutes for assessing the costs of water and sewer lines and laterals, the
board of commissioners, if in its opinion it would be ore equitable to do so,
is hereby authorized in its discretion to levy any such assessments according
to either of the following methods: (1) equally against each of the lots
capable of being served by such line or lines or (2) on the basis of the
footage of land upon a public street by an equal rate per foot of such
frontage.
   In lieu of assessing the total cost of a particular project as herein
provided, the governing body may annually, between the first days of January
and July of each year, determine the average cost of installing water and sewer
mains or lines and on the basis of such determination may make assessments of
such average cost during the following fiscal year beginning July 1. The
average cost of such installation shall include the cost of the particular size
and material of lines completed during the preceding calendar years. It may
also include the anticipated increase in labor and materials costs based upon
the average of such increases during the preceding five calendar years. The
assessment of the average cost of such line shall not be made until after the
particular assessment project has been completed. The purpose of this section
is to distribute more equitably the cost of the installation of water and sewer
lines throughout the town, to permit a property owner to know in advance what
the cost of installation of water and sewer liens benefiting his property will
be; and to permit the most expeditious assessment of cost against property
after completion of the installation of such lines. The actual cost of
acquisition of rights-of-way may also be assessed as a part of the cost of an
individual project. If the right-of-way costs have not been determined and
assessed with the assessment of the average installation costs at the time of
the completion of the project, such costs may be assessed separately when they
are determined.
§ 37 WATER CONNECTIONS.
   In addition to the authority granted by the General Statutes the board of
commissioners may require owners of improved property which may be based upon
or near any water line of the town to connect with the town water system, and
may establish and collect reasonable charges for such connections.
ARTICLE XII. REFUSE, WEED AND TRASH
§ 38 PROPERTY KEPT FREE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner in the town to keep his
property free from noxious weeds, trash, and all other forms of offensive
animal or vegetable matter or refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health or which may constitute a public nuisance.
§ 39 REMOVAL OF OFFENSIVE MATTER; CHARGES A LIEN.
   The board of commissioners may by ordinance establish a procedure whereby
town forces may clean, cut, and remove any weeds, trash, refuse, or other
offensive matter from any property upon failure of the owner or occupant after
10 days’ notice to do so. In such event the cost of such cleaning, cutting and
removal shall become a lien upon the particular property equal to the lien for
ad valorem taxes and may thereafter be collected either by suit in the name of
the town or by foreclosure of the lien in the same manner and subject to the
same rules, regulations, costs and penalties as provided by law for the
foreclosure of the lien on real property for ad valorem taxes.
ARTICLE XIII. CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
§ 40 PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS; SUIT UPON CLAIMS.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the Town of Pittsboro arising in tort or
in contract shall be presented to the board of commissioners in writing, signed
by the claimant, his attorney or agent, within 90 days after the claim or
demand is due or the cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be
brought thereon within 30 days or after the expiration of 12 months from the
time said claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so
presented within 90 days after the cause of action accrues, and unless suit is
brought within 12 months thereafter, any action thereon is barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the town on account of damages
to or compensation for real property taken or used by the town for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the town therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two years after such alleged use, the owner,
his executor, administrator, guardian, or next friend, shall have given notice
in writing to the board of commissioners of the claim, stating in the notice
the date that the alleged use commenced, a description of property alleged to
have been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six months after the
termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained of;
or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that claim is given
on his behalf within six months after termination of the incapacity, or within
three years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained of
whichever is the longer period. The town may at any time request the
appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a potential claim
against the town and known to be suffering from physical or mental incapacity.
§ 41 SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS BY TOWN MANAGER.
   The town manager may with the approval of the board of commissioners settle
claims against the town for (1) personal injury or damages to property when the
amount involved does not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
does not exceed the actual loss sustained including loss of time, medical
expenses, and any other expense actually incurred and (2) the taking of small
portions of property which are needed for the rounding of corners at
intersections of streets, when the amount involved in any such settlement does
not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) and does not exceed the actual loss
sustained. Settlement of a claim by the town manager pursuant to this section
shall constitute a complete release of the town from any and all damages
sustained by the person involved in such settlement in any manner arising out
of the accident, occasion, or taking complained of. All such settlements, and
all such releases, shall be approved in advance by the town attorney.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Filing of ordinances
   
10.20   Publication of ordinances
   
10.21   Altering code
   
10.22   Liability of corporate officers, agents, and employees for violation of
code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Pittsboro shall be
designated as the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Pittsboro, North Carolina,” and
may be so cited.
(2003 Code, § 1-100)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or COMMISSIONERS. The words BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
or COMMISSIONERS shall be constructed as if the words “of the Town of
Pittsboro, North Carolina” followed them or it.
      BOND. Where a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Pittsboro, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Chatham in the State of North Carolina.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision of this code requires or
authorizes an officer or employee of the town to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate,
delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the
terms of the provision shall specifically designate or provide otherwise.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The HEALTH OFFICER of Chatham County, North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive. (See SHALL.)
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory. (See MAY.)
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STATUTES REFERENCES. Whenever reference is made, for example, to G.S. §
160A-198, it shall be construed to refer to General Statutes of North Carolina,
§ 160A-198, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
(2003 Code, § 1-101)
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Pittsboro, in the County of Chatham, North Carolina.
      TOWN LIMITS or CORPORATE LIMITS. The legal boundary of the Town of
Pittsboro, North Carolina.
      WRITING or WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures,
whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
(2003 Code, § 1-101)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Commissioners that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this
code, since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Commissioners
without the incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(2003 Code, § 1-210)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving, and the like, any street or public way
in the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Pittsboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Pittsboro, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:
...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter, or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(2003 Code §        ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance passed by the Board of Commissioners shall be immediately
filed in a book provided for this purpose by the Board of Commissioners, which
shall be known as the Official Copy of the Code of the Town of Pittsboro, under
the proper chapter and section, according to context, and shall be placed and
assigned the proper section number.
(2003 Code, § 1-204)
§ 10.20 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every ordinance passed by the Board of Commissioners, or a summary
thereof, shall be published in some newspaper in the town, unless, at the time
of the adoption thereof, the Board designates a later date for its publication.
   (B)   Such published ordinance shall show the date when the same shall
become effective.
(2003 Code, § 1-205)
§ 10.21 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code or to insert or delete pages or any
portions thereof or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever,
except pursuant to ordinance or resolution or other official act of the Board
of Commissioners, which will cause the law of the town to be misrepresented
thereby.
(2003 Code, § 1-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.22 LIABILITY OF CORPORATE OFFICERS, AGENTS, AND EMPLOYEES FOR VIOLATION OF
CODE.
   In the event of a violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the town by a corporation, the officer, agent, or employee thereof who
performs the act constituting the violation or procures, aids, or abets the
performance of such act shall be subject to the same penalties as if he himself
or she herself had committed such violation.
(2003 Code, § 1-207)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town, any act is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor or
whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do such act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
provided thereof, the violation of any such provision of this code or other
ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 30 days. Each day that any violation of this code or of
any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 1-209)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Compensation of Mayor
Board of Commissioners
   
30.15   Compensation of Commissioners
   
30.16   Regular meetings
   
30.17   Special meetings
   
30.18   Quorum
   
30.19   Adjourned meetings
   
30.20   Mayor to preside
   
30.21   Mayor pro tem
   
30.22   Vote of Mayor
   
30.23   Rules of procedure
   
30.24   Adoption of Suggested Rules of Procedures for a City Council
Cross-reference:
   Employees of the Board of Commissioners, see §
31.01
   General administrative policies for the town, see
Ch. 34
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 160A, 163, and § 160A-101
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall receive an annual salary established each year in the
budget.
(2003 Code, § 2-102)
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.15 COMPENSATION OF COMMISSIONERS.
   Each member of the Board of Commissioners shall receive an annual salary
established each year in the budget.
(2003 Code, § 2-103)
§ 30.16 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall regularly meet twice monthly at such a time
and place as the Mayor or the Board shall designate, and may meet at any other
time as the Mayor or the Board may designate.
(2003 Code, § 2-201)
§ 30.17 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore, or any two members of the Board of
Commissioners may at any time call a special meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be
considered.
   (B)   The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Commissioner or
left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting.
Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all members of the
Board of Commissioners are present and consent thereto, or when those not
present have signed a written waiver of notice.
   (C)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting, unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
(2003 Code, § 2-202)
§ 30.18 QUORUM.
   Three members of the Board of Commissioners present at any meeting shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; provided, however, for the
purposes of this section, the Mayor shall not be considered a member of the
Board.
(2003 Code, § 2-203)
§ 30.19 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum fails to attend a meeting of the Board of Commissioners, the
meeting shall stand adjourned to a day agreed upon by a majority of the members
present at such meeting.
(2003 Code, § 2-204)
§ 30.20 MAYOR TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 2-205)
§ 30.21 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   When there is an equal division upon any question before the Board of
Commissioners, or in the election of officers, the Mayor shall determine the
matter by his or her vote; otherwise, the Mayor shall not vote.
(2003 Code, § 2-206)
§ 30.22 VOTE OF MAYOR.
   When there is an equal division upon any question before the Board of
Commissioners, or in the election of officers, the Mayor shall determine the
matter by his or her vote; otherwise, the Mayor shall not vote.
(2003 Code, § 2-207)
§ 30.23 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except as may be provided otherwise in this subchapter, the rules of the
procedure of the Board of Commissioners shall be in conformance with Robert’s
Rules of Order.
(2003 Code, § 2-208)
§ 30.24 ADOPTION OF SUGGESTED RULES OF PROCEDURES FOR A CITY COUNCIL.
   This municipality’s “Rules of Procedure for the Town of Pittsboro Board of
Commissioners and its Appointed Boards and Commissions” based on “Suggested
Rules of Procedure for a City Council” by A. Fleming Bell II, Third Edition, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(2003 Code, Chapter 27)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143-318.11
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Employees of Board of Commissioners
   
31.02   Personnel responsible to Manager
   
31.03   Powers granted to Manager
   
31.04   Personnel policy
Parks and Recreation Board
   
31.15   Creation
   
31.16   Membership
   
31.17   Appointment
   
31.18   Meetings; Chairperson
   
31.19   Attendance of Board members at meetings
   
31.20   Quorum
   
31.21   Advisory Board functions
   
31.22   By-laws
   
31.23   Advisory Board application
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 EMPLOYEES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The town’s Board of Commissioners shall employ the Manager and Attorney for
a length of time determined by the Board. A signed contract shall be prepared.
(2003 Code, § 2-501)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 160A and § 160A-101
§ 31.02 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBLE TO MANAGER.
   Personnel responsible to the Town Manager includes:
   (A)   Town Clerk;
   (B)   Chief of Police;
   (C)   Sewer plant operator in charge;
   (D)   Water plant operator in charge;
   (E)   Public Utilities Director; and
   (F)   Support personnel within each of the departments above.
(2003 Code, § 2-502)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 158, 159, 160A, 163, §§ 160A-101 and 159-18
§ 31.03 POWERS GRANTED TO MANAGER.
   (A)   The powers of the Manager include, but are not limited to, those
specified in the general statutes.
   (B)   The town’s Board of Commissioners may assign other powers so long as
the general statutes so grants the power to do.
(2003 Code, § 2-503)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 158, 159, 160A, and § 160A-101
§ 31.04 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The Board of Commissioners shall cause to be prepared and adopt a personnel
policy. The Personnel Policy shall be a part of this subchapter as if it were
incorporated herein.
(2003 Code, § 2-504)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 160A
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.15 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a parks and recreation advisory board for the town.
(2003 Code, § 19.101)
§ 31.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   (1)   The Board shall consist of seven members, all of whom shall be
appointed at large. Four members shall be residents and citizens of the town.
      (2)   Three members shall be residents of the town’s extra territorial
jurisdiction.
   (B)   A member who has three consecutive unexcused absences shall be
replaced by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The Manager or his or her designee and/or Recreation Director shall
serve as liaison for Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 19.102)
§ 31.17 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Initially, members of the Board shall be appointed by the town’s Board
of Commissioners for terms of two or three years as follows:
      (1)   Three members: two-year term; or
      (2)   Four members: three-year term.
   (B)   Each subsequent appointment shall be for two years.
   (C)   (1)   Members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Terms shall end on June 30.
      (3)   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointments except that such appointment shall be only for the length of the
unexpired term.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners to appoint one of its members to be an ex-
officio member who will not have a vote. The Chairperson shall vote only in
case of a tie vote.
(2003 Code, § 19.103)
§ 31.18 MEETINGS; CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall hold meetings at such
time and places determined by the Chairperson. They shall determine and adopt
by-laws, rules, and regulations governing its procedure.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall appoint one of its members to serve as
Chairperson. The Chairperson shall only vote in the case of a tie.
(2003 Code, § 19.104)
§ 31.19 ATTENDANCE OF BOARD MEMBERS AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   A Board member who, without excuse, misses more than three consecutive
regular meetings or a total of four such meetings during the year loses their
status as a member of the Board. In such cases, the Chair will immediately
request the Board of Commissioners to fill the vacancy.
   (B)   Absences due to sickness, death, or other such obligatory emergencies
shall be regarded as excused absences and shall not affect the Board member’s
status on the Board. However, in the event of long illness, or other such
causes for prolonged absences, the Board member may be replaced.
(2003 Code, § 19.105)
§ 31.20 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of the majority of Board members.
(2003 Code, § 19.106)
§ 31.21 ADVISORY BOARD FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The primary function of the Advisory Board is to advise and make
recommendations to the Town Manager or his or her designee and governing board.
   (B)   Some of the basic functions of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
are as follows:
(2003 Code, § 19.200)
      (1)   To investigate and determine the needs and interests of the
community for recreation programs and facilities and make recommendations to
meet those needs;
(2003 Code, § 19.201)
      (2)   To inform and interpret the needs of the general public to the
governing body and the Town Manager or his or her designee;
(2003 Code, § 19.202)
      (3)   To recommend and help secure a comprehensive master plan and other
pertinent studies for the town for the acquisition and development of a system
of parks, facilities, and recreation programs;
(2003 Code, § 19.203)
      (4)   To recommend and advise on the acceptance of any grant, gift,
contribution, or donation made available to the town;
(2003 Code, § 19.204)
      (5)   To serve as a forum in introducing innovative and new ideas,
concepts, programs, policies, and procedures;
(2003 Code, § 19.205)
      (6)   To generally work toward a favorable public opinion of, and support
for, parks and recreation services through such means as community and
neighborhood groups;
(2003 Code, § 19.206)
      (7)   (a)   To assist the town in developing cooperative arrangements
with other organizations and private groups.
         (b)   This function will assist in providing new and innovative
programs for the citizens of the community;
(2003 Code, § 19.207)
      (8)   To advise and assist in the preparation of the Parks and Recreation
Department budget;
(2003 Code, § 19.208)
      (9)   To assist the town in recruiting volunteer staff to work with parks
and recreation programs and activities;
(2003 Code, § 19.209)
      (10)   To assist the town staff in evaluating recreation programs and
activities;
(2003 Code, § 19.210)
      (11)   To assist the town in developing program priorities; and
(2003 Code, § 19.211)
      (12)   Advise the Town Planning Board on all matters pertaining to
recreational planning of the community.
(2003 Code, § 19.212)
§ 31.22 BY-LAWS.
   The Committee by-laws are made a part of this subchapter by reference and
attachment.
(2003 Code, § 19.108)
§ 31.23 ADVISORY BOARD APPLICATION.
 
TOWN OF PITTSBORO
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
APPLICATION
Name:                                                            
Address (Street):                                              
Phone: Home ( )            Mobile ( )             
ADVISORY BOARD FUNCTION
 
The primary function of the advisory board is to advise and make recommendations to the town manager or his designee and
governing board.
The advisory board does not have decision making authority nor does it select the parks and recreation director or department
personnel.
 
QUALIFICATIONS
 
Briefly answer the following questions to help us select the best qualified applicants.
 
1. List any experience you may have in working on an advisory board or with a parks and recreation department.
 
2. List any organizations clubs or civic groups that you are a member of.
 
3. In what areas of parks and recreation are you most interested?
 
4. What suggestions do you have that would improve the services of the parks and recreation department to the citizens of
Pittsboro?
 
(2003 Code, § 19.109)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
Law Enforcement
   
32.01   Organization of Police Department
   
32.02   Chief of Police
   
32.03   Uniforms of police officers
   
32.04   Powers and duties of police officers
   
32.05   Resisting police prohibited
   
32.06   Department operating organization
Fire Department
   
32.20   Fire Chief a public officer
   
32.21   Specific duties and responsibilities of Chief
   
32.22   Duties of other members of the Fire Department
   
32.23   Fire limits
State of Emergency
   
32.35   When deemed to exist
   
32.36   Mayor empowered to proclaim restrictions
   
32.37   Curfew
   
32.38   Restrictions on possession, consumption, or transfer of intoxicating
beverages
   
32.39   Restrictions on possession, transportation, and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
32.40   Restrictions on access to areas
   
32.41   Storage of firearms and ammunition during declared emergency
   
32.42   Authority of governing body to promulgate storage restrictions
   
32.43   Dispersal during emergencies
   
32.44   Amendments to the proclamation
   
32.45   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
32.46   Removal and termination
 
   
32.99   Penalty
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers, dispatchers, and other personnel as the Town Manager and Board
of Commissioners shall from time to time determine to be necessary, and as many
special police officers as the Mayor and Board of Commissioners may deem
necessary to appoint for special purposes.
(2003 Code, § 21-1.00)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 128-16 et seq., 160A-281 et seq., 160A-282,
160A-283, and 160A-284
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Town Manager with regard
to merit only and need not be a resident of the town at the time of his or her
appointment.
   (B)   The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision and direction of the Manager. The Chief shall keep the Manager
informed of the Department’s activities and make such reports that the Board of
Commissioners or the Manager may from time to time require, and he or she shall
perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the Manager.
(2003 Code, § 21-2.00)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq., 160A-282, 160A-283, and
160A-284
§ 32.03 UNIFORMS OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be provided by the town,
shall keep the uniforms in a neat and clean condition, and shall surrender all
uniforms and equipment upon leaving the police service of the town if the
uniforms and equipment were furnished by the town.
(2003 Code, § 21-3.00) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Each police officer shall:
   (A)   Have within the corporate limits of the town, and within the territory
extending three miles from the corporate limits, all of the powers vested in
law enforcement by statute or common law;
   (B)   Have power to serve all civil and criminal process that may be
directed to him or her by any officer of the general court of justice;
   (C)   Rigidly enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations of the town and
the state; and
   (D)   At all times preserve the peace and protect the property and the
safety of the citizens of the town.
(2003 Code, § 21-4.00)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 15A-401, 15A-511 et seq., 90-21.20, 128-16
et seq., 160A-281 et seq., 160A-283, and 160A-284
§ 32.05 RESISTING POLICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall resist the police while in the discharge of their duty, by
force, words, or threats or any attempt to excite others to resistance, or in
any other manner obstruct them in the performance of their duty.
(2003 Code, § 21-5.00) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-221 et seq. and 15A-401
§ 32.06 DEPARTMENT OPERATING ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Police Department shall adopt departmental operating procedures in
order to ensure the orderly performance of duties by all Department personnel.
Such procedures shall be in keeping with the provisions of the ordinances of
the town and shall be approved by the Town Manager.
   (B)   A copy of the procedures shall remain in the office of the town
manager and in the office of the Chief of Police and shall be distributed to
all Departmental personnel. The Departmental Operating Procedures Manual is
made part of this subchapter as if incorporated herein.
(2003 Code, § 21-6.00)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 90-21.20, 128-16 et seq., 160A-281 et seq.,
160A-282, 160A-283, and 160A-284
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 FIRE CHIEF A PUBLIC OFFICER.
   The Fire Chief as an appointee of the governing body has the status of a
public officer when performing the duties of his or her office.
(2003 Code, § 8-300)
§ 32.21 SPECIFIC DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF CHIEF.
   Specific duties and responsibilities of the Fire Chief include the
following.
   (A)   Keep records and submit reports.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep or shall cause to be
kept an accurate record of all fires occurring in the town.
      (2)   The Chief shall submit an annual budget and all other reports as
may be required by the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The Chief shall keep such records and submit such reports as may be
required by the state.
   (B)   Take charge in fire fighting. Whenever a fire shall occur in the town,
it shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to report immediately
to the place of the fire and to take active charge of the fighting thereof.
   (C)   Dispatch personnel and equipment.
      (1)   The Chief and/or Assistant Chief shall have the responsibility of
dispatching fire fighting equipment and personnel.
      (2)   Provided, however, this function may be performed by the Fire
Commissioner, Mayor, or Town Clerk in the absence of the Chief and Assistance
Chief.
   (D)   Train and supervise firefighters. The Chief has the responsibility for
training and supervising Fire Department members.
   (E)   Supervise upkeep of equipment. The Chief is responsible for the
supervision of maintenance and upkeep of fire fighting equipment.
   (F)   Investigate fires.
      (1)   Immediately after the occurrence of any fire, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall investigate or shall cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances thereof; and, as far as possible, shall determine
whether such fire is the result of accident, carelessness, or design.
      (2)   If he or she has reason to believe that such fire is of suspicious
origin, he or she shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to
pursue the investigation of such matters, and shall further cooperate with the
authorities in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case
when properly instituted.
   (G)   Inspect hazards, structures, and appliances.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, or such
other person as may be designated by the Board, to inspect or to cause to be
inspected as often as may be necessary, but not less than twice a year, all
specially hazardous manufacturing processes; storage or installation of
acetylene or other gases; chemicals, oils, explosives, and inflammable
materials; all interior fire alarms and automatic sprinkler systems; and such
other hazards or appliances as may be necessary for the enforcement of
applicable sections of this code, law, and ordinances and for the safeguarding
of life and property from fire.
      (2)   It shall also be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department, or
such other person as may be designated by the Board, to inspect or cause to be
inspected as often as may be necessary, but not less than once a year in
outlying districts and twice a year in the closely built portions of the town,
all buildings and premises, except the interiors of private dwellings, for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any conditions liable to
cause fire or any violation of the provisions or intent of any applicable
section of this code, state law, or ordinance of the town affecting the fire
hazard.
   (H)   Inspect hazards upon complaint. Whenever any person shall make written
complaint to the Chief of the Fire Department that any business or premises
constitutes a fire hazard, it shall be the duty of the Chief to have the same
inspected immediately.
   (I)   Perform other duties not enumerated. The Chief shall perform any
duties not specifically stated above which are required by the general
statutes.
(2003 Code, § 8-301)
§ 32.22 DUTIES OF OTHER MEMBERS OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Assistant to assist Chief. The Assistant Chief shall assist the Chief,
and act as Chief in his or her absence.
   (B)   Direct traffic. Fire Department personnel, when in uniform, shall have
authority to direct traffic and enforce motor vehicle laws and ordinances at
the fire scene, including issuance of citations to violators pursuant to the
general statutes.
   (C)   Accompany equipment. At least one officer shall accompany any piece of
equipment answering a fire call.
(2003 Code, § 8-303)
§ 32.23 FIRE LIMITS.
   The “primary fire limits” of the town shall be those portions of the
business district of said town on Hillsboro Street (U.S. Highway 15-501), from
its intersection with U.S. Highway 64 north to its intersection with Thompson
Street, and 100 feet on either side of the right-of-way line of Hillsboro
Street, and being all of the 100 and 200 blocks of Hillsboro Street in the
town.
(2003 Code, § 8-401)
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 32.35 WHEN DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, catastrophe, or for
any other reason, the municipal police are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protections for lives, safety, health, welfare, or property.
(2003 Code, § 18-201)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.36 MAYOR EMPOWERED TO PROCLAIM RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in sections of this subchapter in the manner described in those
sections. The Mayor may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and
restrictions as he or she finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to
maintain an acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect
lives, safety, and property. The Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the
proclamation. The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall
retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of
it for use as evidence.
(2003 Code, § 18-202)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.37 CURFEW.
   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and during
certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member of an
exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or areas
and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The Mayor
may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people whose
exemption the Mayor finds necessary for preservation of the public health,
safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted. Unless otherwise specified in the
proclamation, the curfew shall apply during the specified period each day until
the Mayor, by proclamation, removes the curfew.
(2003 Code, § 18-202.2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.38 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OF INTOXICATING
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating beverage, including, but not limited to, beer and wine, other than
on one’s own premises, and may prohibit the transfer of any intoxicating
beverages. The prohibition, if imposed, shall apply to transfer of intoxicating
beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by
anyone else within the town. If imposed, the restrictions shall apply
throughout the town.
(2003 Code, § 18-202.3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.39 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession of any dangerous weapon
or substance unless it remains in a place of storage within the possessor’s
premises, or in a customary place of storage not readily available to the
possessor, if the weapon or substance cannot readily be stored. The
proclamation may also prohibit the sale or other transfer or the transportation
of any dangerous weapon or substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of
the restrictions classes of people whose possession, transfer, or
transportation of certain dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the
preservation of the public health, safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall
state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
(2003 Code, § 18-202.4.1)
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device, or other
instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of serious
bodily injury or destruction of property, and also includes all items included
in G.S. § 14-288.1(2);
(2003 Code, § 18-202.5.1)
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
(2003 Code, § 18-202.5.2)
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above. If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction of
the town.
(2003 Code, § 18-202.5.3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.40 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted. Areas to which access is denied or restricted
shall be designated by the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when
directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor.
   (B)   When acting under this authority, the Chief of Police and his or her
subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area, street, or location
within the town if that restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably
necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent
further aggravation of the emergency.
(2003 Code, § 18-202.5.4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.41 STORAGE OF FIREARMS AND AMMUNITION DURING DECLARED EMERGENCY.
   Every person engaged in the business of selling firearms and ammunition or
both shall comply with the following rules.
   (A)   No ammunition shall be displayed on an open counter or in any other
place readily accessible to the public.
   (B)   No ammunition or firearms shall be displayed in windows or display
areas when the business is not regularly open.
   (C)   During any period in which firearms or ammunition or both are
unattended, they shall be stored in a place meeting the requirements or
regulations promulgated by the governing body under authority of this article,
or, if no such regulations have been promulgated, in a place difficult of
access to unauthorized persons.
(2003 Code, § 18-203) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.42 AUTHORITY OF GOVERNING BODY TO PROMULGATE STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The governing body is authorized to promulgate regulations governing
the construction, location, and accessibility of storage places for firearms
and ammunition required to be used by this subchapter. The governing body may
adopt any regulations under this authority that it believes would reasonably
and effectively serve to prevent unauthorized persons from obtaining the stored
firearms and ammunition.
   (B)   The governing body shall take reasonable steps to notify all persons
that it can reasonably identify as being affected by these regulations. The
notification shall sufficiently precede the effective date of the regulations
to permit compliance with them. The town shall maintain on file an official
copy of the regulations.
(2003 Code, § 18-204)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.43 DISPERSAL DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, by proclamation, may prohibit assemblies of three or
more persons in specified geographic areas of the town after he or she finds
that any such assemblies constitute a clear and present danger of prolonging or
aggravating an existing emergency which endangers lives, safety, and property.
      (2)   The proclamation shall be in writing and state the Mayor’s
findings.
      (3)   The Mayor shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms
of the proclamation to those affected by it, and shall post a copy of it in the
Town Hall.
      (4)   The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and, upon
request, shall furnish certified copies of it for use as evidence.
   (B)   The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or areas in which
the restrictions apply.
   (C)   Any police officer may order any assembly prohibited by this
subchapter to disperse.
(2003 Code, § 18-205) Penalty, see §
32.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.44 AMENDMENTS TO THE PROCLAMATION.
   The Mayor may amend these proclamations from time to time, making such
modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in the
original proclamations.
(2003 Code, § 18-206)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.45 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this subchapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation.
(2003 Code, § 18-207)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.46 REMOVAL AND TERMINATION.
   The Mayor shall by proclamation remove the prohibitions and restrictions and
proclaim the end of the state of emergency as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 18-208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalty for failure to disperse by a police officer, acting under
authority of §
32.43, shall be a misdemeanor for failure to comply with the order and shall be
punishable upon conviction by a fine or imprisonment, as provided in G.S. § 14-
4-288.5 and implementing G.S. § 166A-19.31(b)(1) relating to movements of
people.
(2003 Code, § 18-205)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purchase orders required
Disposing of Personal Property Valued at Less than $30,000
   
33.15   Authorization to dispose
   
33.16   Means of disposal
   
33.17   Offers
   
33.18   Records
Capital Reserve Fund
   
33.30   Operation of property; creation
   
33.31   Operation of property; period and approximate amount for accumulation
of monies
   
33.32   Operation of property; source of monies
   
33.33   Public enterprises; creation
   
33.34   Public enterprises; period and approximate amount for accumulation of
monies
   
33.35   Public enterprises; sources of monies
Taxation
   
33.40   Motor vehicle license tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURCHASE ORDERS REQUIRED.
   All purchases made by the town personnel for the town shall be made upon
purchase orders secured from the Town Clerk and approved by the Town Manager.
(2003 Code, § 2-101)
DISPOSING OF PERSONAL PROPERTY VALUED
AT LESS THAN $30,000
§ 33.15 AUTHORIZATION TO DISPOSE.
    The Town Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus personal
property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or her
discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(2003 Code, § 2-301) (Ord. passed 6-12-2023)
§ 33.16 MEANS OF DISPOSAL.
   The Town Manager or his or her designee may dispose of any such surplus
personal property by any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to
yield the highest attainable sale price in money or other consideration,
including but not limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A,
Art. 12. Such sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and
minimum waiting period.
(2003 Code, § 2-302) (Ord. passed 6-12-2023)
§ 33.17 OFFERS.
    The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the highest
offer or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if greater
value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby authorized
to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers are
received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the property,
obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any individual or
organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 2-303) (Ord. passed 6-12-2023)
§ 33.18 RECORDS.
   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under authority of
this subchapter and that record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Ord. passed 6-12-2023)
CAPITAL RESERVE FUND
§ 33.30 OPERATION OF PROPERTY; CREATION.
   From and after the effective date hereof, there be, and it hereby is,
created a Reserve Fund for the purpose of accumulating monies for the
acquisition, construction, establishment, enlargement, improvement,
maintenance, ownership, operation, and contracting for the operation of
facilities, parks, vehicles, real and personal property, streets, and
sidewalks.
(2003 Code, § 2-401)
§ 33.31 OPERATION OF PROPERTY; PERIOD AND APPROXIMATE AMOUNT FOR ACCUMULATION
OF MONIES.
   (A)   The approximate period for the accumulation of monies pursuant hereto
for the purposes stated herein shall be a term of 20 years.
(2003 Code, § 2-402)
   (B)   The approximate amount of monies to be accumulated for the purposes
herein set forth shall be the sum of $1,000,000.
(2003 Code, § 2-403)
§ 33.32 OPERATION OF PROPERTY; SOURCE OF MONIES.
   The sources of said monies shall be sums budgeted annually from ad valorem
tax revenues, payments received in lieu of dedication, proceeds from sales of
real property, and interest accruing thereon.
(2003 Code, § 2-404)
§ 33.33 PUBLIC ENTERPRISES; CREATION.
   From and after the effective date hereof, there be, and it hereby, is
created a Reserve Fund for the purpose of accumulating monies for the
acquisition, construction, establishment, enlargement, improvement,
maintenance, ownership, operation, and contracting for the operation of any or
all of the public enterprises defined in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 16 to furnish
public enterprise services to the town and its citizens.
(2003 Code, § 2-405)
§ 33.34 PUBLIC ENTERPRISES; PERIOD AND APPROXIMATE AMOUNT FOR ACCUMULATION OF
MONIES.
   (A)   The approximate period for the accumulation of monies pursuant hereto
for the purposes stated herein shall be a term of ten years.
(2003 Code, § 2-406)
   (B)   The approximate amount of monies to be accumulated for the purposes
herein set forth shall be the sum of $1,000,000.
(2003 Code, § 2-407)
§ 33.35 PUBLIC ENTERPRISES; SOURCES OF MONIES.
   The sources of said monies shall be sums budgeted annually from the town’s
Enterprise Fund, access charges or impact fees derived from the development of
property and interest accruing thereon.
(2003 Code, § 2-408)
TAXATION
§ 33.40 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX.
   Each licensed self-propelled motor vehicle that is subject to the property
tax of the town under G.S. Chapter 105 shall be subject to an annual municipal
vehicle license tax of $30. This tax shall be levied at the same time and
collected and accounted for in the same manner as the property tax on
registered motor vehicles collected by the State of North Carolina under the
Tag and Tax Together Program.
(Ord. passed 6-10-2024)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Claims against town
   
34.02   Public contracts
   
34.03   Franchises
§ 34.01 CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN.
   All persons having any claim against the town shall be required to present
such claim, in writing, within 30 days after the date such claim may arise, at
a regular meeting of the Board of Commissioners; provided, however, that the
Board may by unanimous consent, consider, pass upon, and audit any such claim
at any meeting, whether special or regular.
(2003 Code, § 2-104)
§ 34.02 PUBLIC CONTRACTS.
   The procedure for the letting of public contracts, purchases by town
departments, and the advertising of bids shall be as prescribed by state law.
(2003 Code, § 2-105)
§ 34.03 FRANCHISES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have power to grant, upon reasonable terms,
franchises for public utilities. Such grants shall not exceed the period of 60
years unless renewed at the end of the period granted.
(2003 Code, § 2-106)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
53.   SEWER USE
      
54.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Permit for connection required
   
50.03   Water connection required
   
50.04   Water usage
   
50.05   Obtaining right-of-way for facilities
   
50.06   Ownership and maintenance of water and fire service connections
   
50.07   Charges for water services
   
50.08   Adoption of sewer use ordinance
   
50.09   Conflict with other laws
Testing Water Meters
   
50.20   Billing errors
   
50.21   Testing water meters
   
50.22   Re-reading fees
Extension of Water and Sanitary Sewer Service
   
50.35   Application for and approval of extensions required
   
50.36   General extension requirements
   
50.37   Extensions to approved subdivisions or developed property
   
50.38   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivisions
   
50.39   Financing extensions outside corporate limits
   
50.40   Specifications; ownership
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 62, §§ 143-211 et seq., 159-80 et seq.,
160A-76, 160A-176, 160A-185, 160A-193, 160A-216 et seq., 160A-296, 160A-311 et
seq., and 160A-319
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOCATION. Any quantity of water committed by the town pursuant to written
contract or agreement or course of dealing. A residential ALLOCATION shall be
not more than 500 gallons per day. All existing non-residential customer’s
ALLOCATION shall be their monthly average consumption for (YEAR) plus 10%.
   BUILDING CONNECTION. The portion of a private water line which extends from
the building being served to the town’s water meter.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. The portion of a water line that connects private and
public water supplies.
   FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION. That portion of the water line beginning at a
public line in a street right-of-way or public easement and terminating at and
including the water meter.
   FIXTURE UNIT DEMAND. The established amount of water required for the proper
operation of a fixture unit installed in the plumbing system of a building.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PITTSBORO WATER SUPPLY. Any part or all of the facilities necessary to
produce and distribute potable water from the supply source to the water user.
   PUBLICLY DEDICATED EASEMENT. A strip of land across private lands on which
the owner has given written and signed permission for the town to install and
maintain a public water line.
   PUBLIC WATER LINE. A water line installed, owned, and maintained by the
town. All public water mains shall be installed on public street rights-of-way
or publicly dedicated easements.
   SERVICE CONNECTION CHARGE. The fee paid to the town for the installation of
a water line and meter to supply water from a public line, or the installation
of a sewer connection to a public main.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION. That portion of the water line beginning at a
public line in a street right-of-way or public easement and terminating at and
including the water meter.
(2003 Code, § 25-100)
§ 50.02 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or other user shall be connected with
the water system of the town until he, she, or they shall have made application
to be so connected, in writing, to the town.
   (B)   Such application shall state the name and address of the applicant,
the type of utility service desired, and such other information as the town may
request.
   (C)   Residential service shall deem applied for unless otherwise stated.
   (D)   Any proposed consumption in excess of customer’s allocation shall be
applied for and approved by the town prior to any actual increase in
consumption.
   (E)   All non-residential and multi-unit residential applications shall be
subject to the availability of water and may be conditioned upon acceptance of
surcharges or additional necessary or reasonably estimated costs in expanding
the town’s plant facilities sufficient to provide the service being applied
for.
   (F)   All applicants shall also pay in advance any “tap” or service
connection fees charged by the town to defray the actual cost of materials and
labor used in marking the required connection.
(2003 Code, § 25-101) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 WATER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning a house, building, structure, or property used for
human habitation or occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose the
property line of which is within 300 feet of a public water line shall connect
such building or premises to such water line provided that no person shall be
required to cross the private property of another person to make such
connection.
   (B)   Any person who connects his or her premises to the town water system
for domestic water service may continue the use of a private well for any
purpose other than domestic water supply.
   (C)   There shall be no cross-connection of the town’s water system with any
private well or any other source of water supply.
   (D)    Duplex and multi-family units may have a single water service
connection and a single water meter if so desired by the owner. The owner shall
be responsible for payment of the total water bill.
   (E)   The town reserved the right to install all water service connections.
   (F)   Every person shall have at least a three-fourths inch diameter
connection.
(2003 Code, § 25-102) (Ord. passed 1-8-2024)
§ 50.04 WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Terms and conditions. All provisions of this chapter are hereby made a
part of the terms and conditions whereby the town furnishes water to any
person.
   (B)   Unlawful connections. It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
extension or connection from his or her property to the property of another
person, or to make a building connection to a water service connection or to a
public water line without first having made written application for the
connection to the town.
   (C)   Unlawful damage to the town water system. It shall be unlawful for any
person to obstruct, break, remove, damage, deface, or otherwise tamper with any
appurtenances of the town water system including any water meter or water meter
box, fire hydrant, line valves, and curb stops and water service connections.
   (D)   Excess use. No customer shall use water from the system in excess of
his or her allocation without prior application and approval of the town.
   (E)   Unauthorized use of fire hydrants. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate or use water from any fire hydrant on the town water system without
first having written authorization.
(2003 Code, § 25-103) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 OBTAINING RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR FACILITIES.
   When any utility service is requested which requires the placing of the
town’s facilities on or across private property other than that of the
applicant, the person requesting such service shall obtain or cause to be
obtained, at no cost to the town, all rights-of-way necessary for the town’s
facilities.
(2003 Code, § 25-104)
§ 50.06 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF WATER AND FIRE SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   All water and fire service connections will remain the property of and will
be maintained by the town.
(2003 Code, § 25-105)
§ 50.07 CHARGES FOR WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   The citizens of the town shall be charged for the use of water
furnished by the town according to the schedule of rates adopted as part of the
town’s annual budget ordinance.
   (B)   These rates shall be effective with the statements issued by the town
after July 1 each year.
   (C)   Out-of-town users of water service furnished by the town shall be
charged double the amounts established by the schedule hereinabove adopted.
   (D)   Adjustments may be made to two consecutive bills if the customer can
demonstrate to the Town Manager’s satisfaction that both high bills are the
result of one leak and that the customer repaired the leak in a reasonable time
period upon detection.
(2003 Code, § 25-200)
§ 50.08 ADOPTION OF SEWER USE ORDINANCE.
   The Sewer Use Ordinance adopted by the town, October 28, 1997, is made a
part of the Utility Ordinance by reference as if included herein.
(2003 Code, § 25-700)
§ 50.09 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Wherever the regulations of this chapter impose more restrictive standards
than are required in or under any other statutes, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other statute require more
restrictive standards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of such
statute shall govern.
(2003 Code, § 25-806.1)
TESTING WATER METERS
§ 50.20 BILLING ERRORS.
   If a customer believes his or her bill to be in error, he or she shall
present his or her claims, in person, at the town’s office before the bill
becomes delinquent. Such claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent,
shall not be effective in preventing discontinuance of service. The consumer
may pay such bill under protest and said payment shall not prejudice his or her
claim.
(2003 Code, § 25-301) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 TESTING WATER METERS.
   Meters will be tested at the request of the consumer upon payment to the
town of the actual cost to the town making the test provided; however, that if
the meter is found to over register beyond 2.5% of the correct, no charge will
be made.
(2003 Code, § 25-302)
§ 50.22 RE-READING FEES.
   Meters may be re-read at the request of a consumer and payment of the
current charge thereof. If an error is discovered, the charge will be refunded.
(2003 Code, § 25-303)
EXTENSION OF WATER AND SANITARY SEWER SERVICE
§ 50.35 APPLICATION FOR AND APPROVAL OF EXTENSIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, any property
owner or owners desiring water or sanitary sewer service shall apply, in
writing, to the Board of Commissioners requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both. No request for the extension of services shall
be considered unless submitted in writing in accordance with the requirements
of this subchapter. The town shall provide appropriate forms for the use of
interested persons.
   (B)   The town may require the applicant to submit, as part of the written
application, such information, plans, or other data as may be required to
adequately determine if the requirements of this subchapter are to be met.
   (C)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development,
project, or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time an
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in detail
sufficient to determine the size and type facilities which will be necessary to
serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (D)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 25-401) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All extensions of either water or sanitary sewer service shall be governed
by the following general rules.
   (A)   The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or sanitary
sewer main shall be determined by the Board of Commissioners. In general, the
minimum distance for extensions shall be one platted block, or in the case of
water mains, from main line valve to valve, and, in the case of sanitary sewer
extensions, from manhole to manhole.
   (B)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
the other required system facilities shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners in accordance with the recognized standards and accepted
engineering practices and design and in accordance with applicable system plans
adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 25-402)
§ 50.37 EXTENSIONS TO APPROVED SUBDIVISIONS OR DEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   (A)   When application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
which is developed or has been previously approved as a subdivision, or where
streets have previously been dedicated and accepted by the town, and where such
area is not part of a new subdivision which has not been approved by the town,
the Town Manager or other person designated by the Town Manager shall estimate
the cost of the project and present the application for such extension, the
estimated cost, and other necessary information to the Board of Commissioners
for approval. If the application is approved by the Board of Commissioners and
subject to the availability of funds, the town will install or have installed,
by contract, under its supervision, the extensions, which have been approved,
and such extension shall be financed in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Upon approval of any extension of water or sewer service as
hereinabove provided, the Board of Commissioners may defray all or part of the
expense thereof by means of special assessments upon the properties abutting
upon a project in accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of the G.S.
Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(2003 Code, § 25-403.1)
§ 50.38 EXTENSIONS TO PROPOSED DEVELOPMENTS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water or
sanitary sewer service or both to new or proposed developments or subdivisions
within the corporate limits which have not received prior approval from the
Board of Commissioners, the Town Manager or his or her designated agent shall
estimate the cost of the project and present the application for such
extension, the estimated cost, and other necessary information to the Board of
Commissioners for its approval. If the application is approved, and subject to
the approval of the development or subdivision by the town and subject to the
availability of funds, the town will install or have installed by contract
under its supervision such extensions, which shall be financed in accordance
with this section.
   (B)   Upon approval of any extension of water or sewer service as
hereinabove provided, the Board of Commissioners may defray all or any part of
the expense thereof by means of special assessments upon the properties
abutting upon a project in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160A,
Art. 10.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners may also contract with any interested
property owner(s) and require 100% of the total estimated cost of any such
project be deposited with the town prior to any construction. This method of
financing any such project may be utilized in lieu of special assessments.
   (D)   In addition to the payments hereinabove provided, the Board of
Commissioners shall require an engineering fee per lot in the proposed
subdivision or development to be paid in advance as a condition of approval for
such extension of service. Said fees shall be for planning, drafting, bidding,
and inspecting the proposed extension of service. The per lot engineering fee
shall be set from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and shall be on
file in the office of the Town Manager.
(2003 Code, § 25-403.2)
§ 50.39 FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be made in the same manner and under the same requirements as
provided for in §§
50.35 and
50.36.
   (B)   (1)   If an application is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the
owner or owners of property affected by said project shall be required to pay
100% of the total cost of all extensions; provided, however, the town may
participate to an extent agreed upon by the Board of Commissioners in the cost
of larger size mains that are in excess of the size mains required to serve the
project.
      (2)   No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation of any affected
property and all water and sewer lines connected to the town system and located
outside the corporate limits shall become the property of the town at such time
such facilities are connected.
   (C)   Prior to any construction, the owner or owners of affected property
shall deposit with the town such funds as are equal to 100% of the total
estimated cost of such extensions. In the event the funds deposited exceed the
amount of the total extension costs when completed, that portion in excess of
the total cost will be refunded to the owner or owners without interest by the
town in proportion to the amount paid by each owner. In the event that the
amount deposited is less than the total cost when completed, the owner or
owners shall pay such additional amount to the town.
   (D)   In the event the property for which application has been made for
water or sewer service is contiguous to the corporate limits and the owner or
owners of such property agree to annexation and, in the event such property is
annexed to the town, extensions may be made to such property and the cost
thereof financed in accordance with the requirements of divisions (A) and (B)
above, whichever is applicable.
   (E)   Upon such conditions as the Board of Commissioners deem appropriate
within five years of deposit, the town may refund pro rata to the property
owner or owners advancing funds, pursuant to this section, a sum equal to the
difference between the tapping fees inside and outside of town for each tap
made on said water and sewer lines or both involved in the project, not to
exceed the full amount of advanced funds less the amount that would have been
assessed against the property had it been inside of the town.
(2003 Code, § 25-404) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 SPECIFICATIONS; OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any water lines or sanitary sewer lines extended under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, and other requirements of the town. All
facilities installed under the provisions of this subchapter, whether within or
outside the corporate limits, shall become the sole property of the town and
under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes whatsoever at the
time such facilities are connected to the town system.
   (B)   (1)   When requested, the property owner or owners shall grant to the
town such utility easements as the town may require.
      (2)   In addition, a deed to the town for water and/or sewer facilities
installed hereunder and located outside the corporate limits of the town shall
be executed by all necessary parties prior to the time any extensions provided
for in this chapter are connected to the town systems.
(2003 Code, § 25-405) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The Manager shall notify the consumer or authorized agent of the
consumer of the building or premises, in which there is found a violation of
this chapter, of such violation. On failure of the consumer to have the defect
corrected by the end of the specified time interval, the Director may, if in
his or her judgment an imminent health hazard exists, cause the water service
to the building or premises to be terminated and/or recommend such additional
fines or penalties to be invoiced as herein may be provided.
      (2)   The Manager will use the actual cost of enforcement action as the
minimum amount of fines or penalties levied against a violator of this chapter.
      (3)   Request for extension of time and all other appeals shall be made,
in writing, to the Director.
(2003 Code, § 25-610)
CHAPTER 51: EMERGENCY WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
51.01   When restriction is effective
   
51.02   Declaration of emergency mandated; Stage I
   
51.03   Stage II emergency mandated
   
51.04   Stage III emergency mandated
   
51.05   Stage IV emergency mandated
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 62, §§ 143-211 et seq., 159-80 et seq.,
160A-76, 160A-176, 160A-185, 160A-193, 160A-216 et seq., 160A-296, 160A-311 et
seq., and 160A-319
§ 51.01 WHEN RESTRICTION IS EFFECTIVE.
   (A)   The use and withdrawal of water from the town water system by any
person for the following purposes shall be restricted in accordance with the
schedule of stages hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The stages of restrictive uses shall be based upon the water level of
the storage capacity in the town’s 1,000,000-gallon storage facility and the
production of less than 400 gallons per minute of treated water into the
system.
(2003 Code, § 25-500)
§ 51.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY MANDATED; STAGE I.
   (A)   In the event that the water level in the town’s 1,000,000-gallon
storage facility is less than 13.5 feet and the town water system is producing
less than 400 gallons per minute of treated water into the system, a Stage I
water shortage “WARNING” shall be deemed to exist, and the following moderate
mandatory water restrictions shall be in effect.
   (B)   During existence of said restrictions, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Water lawns, shrubbery, flower, and vegetable gardens except during
the hours between 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday;
      (2)   Introduce water into swimming pools except to the extent necessary
to maintain operation;
      (3)   Operate water cooled air conditioners or other equipment that do
not recycle cooling water except when the health and safety are adversely
affected;
      (4)   Wash a motor vehicle, including commercial washing;
      (5)   Wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios, or driveways, or
to use water for other similar purposes;
      (6)   Use or introduce water into any decorative fountain, pool, or pond;
      (7)   Serve water in any public restaurant except upon request; and
      (8)   Use water for any unnecessary purposes or to intentionally
wastewater.
(2003 Code, § 25-501) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.03 STAGE II EMERGENCY MANDATED.
   (A)   In the event that the water level of the town’s 1,000,000-gallon
storage facility shall be less than ten and a half feet and the town’s system
shall produce less than 400 gallons per minute of treated water into the
system, a Stage II water shortage “DANGER” shall be deemed to exist and, in
addition to the restrictions heretofore imposed, the following severe mandatory
water restrictions shall be in effect.
   (B)   During the existence of said restrictions, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Water or sprinkle any lawn;
      (2)   Water any vegetable garden or ornamental shrubs except during the
hours of 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday;
      (3)   Fill any swimming pool or replenish any filled pools except to the
minimum essential for operation; and
      (4)   Make any nonessential use of water for commercial or public use.
The use of single service plates and utensils is encouraged and recommended in
restaurants.
(2003 Code, § 25-502) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.04 STAGE III EMERGENCY MANDATED.
   (A)   In the event the level of the storage capacity in the 1,000,000-gallon
facility is less than eight and a half feet and the town produces less than 400
gallons per minute of treated water into its system, a Stage III water shortage
“EMERGENCY” shall be deemed to exist and, in addition to the restrictions
heretofore imposed, the following stringent mandatory water restrictions shall
be in effect.
   (B)   During the existence of said restrictions, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Use water outside of structures for any use other than an emergency
involving fire;
      (2)   Operate an evaporative air conditioning unit which recycles water
except during the operating hours of the business;
      (3)   Introduce water into any swimming pool; and
      (4)   Use water for any non-residential business and industrial use other
than for domestic purposes.
(2003 Code, § 25-503) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.05 STAGE IV EMERGENCY MANDATED.
   (A)   In the event the level of the storage capacity in the town’s
1,000,000-gallon facility shall be less than seven feet and the town produces
less than 400 gallons per minute of treated water into the system, a Stage IV
water shortage “CRISIS” shall be deemed to exist and it shall be unlawful to
use water for any residential use located outside the town limits and water
rationing shall be put into effect, in addition to all previously imposed
restrictions.
   (B)   Such rationing shall supply water in the minimal quantity required for
the health, welfare, and safety of the citizens of the town in accordance with
a program determined by the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to fail to act in accordance therewith or use
water in any manner or to attempt to evade or avoid such water rationing
restrictions.
   (D)   Fire protection shall be maintained, but where possible, tank trucks
shall use raw water.
(2003 Code, § 25-504) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Elimination of cross-connections; hazard facilities and methods of
connection
   
52.03   Right of entry
   
52.04   Installation of devices
   
52.05   Inspection, testing, and repair of devices
   
52.06   Fire protection system
   
52.07   Irrigation/sprinkler system
   
52.08   Chemical holding tanks
   
52.09   Unapproved sources of supply
   
52.10   Other connections
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 62, §§ 143-211 et seq., 159-80 et seq.,
160A-76, 160A-176, 160A-185, 160A-193, 160A-216 et seq., 160A-296, 160A-311 et
seq., and 160A-319
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle. An
approved AIR-GAP VERTICAL SEPARATION shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe. In no case shall the air-gap be less than one inch.
   APPROVED. Certified in writing by the Director as an acceptable device or
methodology for the purpose of backflow prevention.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, back-siphonage, any combination thereof, or other cause.
   BACKPRESSURES. Any pressure on any source of water other than the public
water supply, which may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An approved effective device or method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of
assembly required shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in an
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a back flow.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention devices as evidenced
by certification of successful completion of a training program approved by the
Director.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm, or corporation responsible for any property at
which water from the town public water supply is received. In the absence of
other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities
herein set forth, the owner on record shall be ultimately responsible.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of water.
   CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the potable water supply by
installing an approved backflow prevention device at the service connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between a potable water supply
system and any other piping system, sewer fixture, container, or device,
whereby water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances may flow into or enter
the potable water supply system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The evaluation of the potential hazard (see definition of
HAZARD) as defined in state.
   DIRECTORS. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE DEVICE. A device composed of two single, independently
acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device and suitable connections for testing the water-
tightness of each check valve.
   HIGH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination or pollution of
a physical or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger
to health.
   ISOLATION. The act of confining a localized hazard within a plumbing or
distribution system by installing approved backflow prevention devices.
   MODERATE HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical properties of
the public or the consumer’s potable water system, or of a contamination which
would have a protracted effect on the quality of the potable water system.
   POTABLE WATER. Water from any source which has been investigated by the
Health Department and which has been approved for human consumption.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE (RPZ) DEVICE. A device containing, within its
structure, a minimum of two independently acting, approved check valves,
together with an automatically operating pressure relief valve. The first check
valve reduces the supply pressure a predetermined amount so that during normal
flow and at cessation of normal flow, the pressure between the checks shall be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharge to atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the checks less than the supply pressure. The
unit shall include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the
device and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTIONS. The terminal end of a SERVICE CONNECTION from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the Director loses jurisdiction and
sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer’s
water.
   WATER SUPPLY (APPROVED). Any public, potable WATER SUPPLY which has been
investigated and approved by the state’s Department of Human Resources. The
system must be operating under a valid health permit. In determining what
constitutes an approved water supply, the Division of Health Services has
reserved the final judgment as to its safety and potability.
   WATER SUPPLY (UNAPPROVED). The term UNAPPROVED WATER SUPPLY shall mean a
water supply which has not been approved for human consumption by the state’s
Department of Human Resources.
   VACUUM BREAKER (ATMOSPHERIC TYPE). A device used to prevent back-siphonage,
which is designed so as not to be subjected to static line pressure.
   VACUUM BREAKER (PRESSURE TYPE). A device suitable for continuous pressure,
to be used to provide protection against back-siphonage.
(2003 Code, § 25-600)
§ 52.02 ELIMINATION OF CROSS- CONNECTIONS; HAZARD FACILITIES AND METHODS OF
CONNECTION.
   (A)   (1)   A high hazardous facility includes, but is not limited to, a
bottling plant, cannery, building having five or more stories, battery
manufacturer, exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye
works, film laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry,
metal fabricating operation, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, pumped fire
sprinkler or riser system, or those equipped with facilities for introduction
of freeze preventive chemicals or other substances other than water.
      (2)   High hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps and
tanks handling sewage; radioactive, lethal, or toxic substances; boiler and
steam connections; sewer waste lines; low inlets to receptacles containing
toxic substances, coils, or jackets used as heat exchangers; flush valve
toilets without vacuum breaks; bacterial and viral; private wells or other
private water supply; water systems; or hose connections, with booster pumps,
carbonation equipment, or similar hazard potential as determined by the
Director.
      (3)   All high hazardous facilities must have a containment device in the
form of a reduced pressure zone backflow prevention device. The consumer is
responsible for installing sufficient internal isolation devices.
   (B)   All industrial and commercial facilities not identified as “high
hazard” will be considered moderate hazard facilities. All moderate hazard
facilities must have a double check valve device as a minimum containment
device.
   (C)   The Director may, if in his or her judgment an imminent health hazard
exists, cause the water service to the building or premises to be terminated
unless an air gap is provided.
   (D)   It is recommended that a dual check valve be installed at the service
connections to single-family residential units.
   (E)   All new construction plans and specifications shall be made available
to the Director for approval, and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (F)   The Director shall be notified by the customer when the nature of the
use of property changes so as to change the hazard classification of the
property if necessary.
(2003 Code, § 25-601)
§ 52.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director or an authorized agent shall have the right to enter any
building, structure, or premises during normal business hours to perform any
duty imposed upon him or her by this chapter. Those duties may include sampling
and testing of water, or inspections and observations of all piping systems
connected to the public water supply. Refusal to allow entry for these purposes
will result in discontinuance of water service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the Director any pertinent
information regarding the piping system on such property where cross-
connections are deemed possible.
(2003 Code, § 25-602)
§ 52.04 INSTALLATION OF DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices will be installed in accordance with
the manufacturer’s installation instructions and those furnished by the
Director. Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the device will be the
responsibility of the consumer. All reduced pressure backflow device assemblies
must be installed in drainable pits wherever below ground installation is
necessary. The installer is responsible to make sure a device is working
properly when it is installed, and to make available all installation and
testing information for approval by the Director.
   (B)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, provisions shall
be made for a “parallel installation” of backflow prevention devices. The
Director will not accept an unprotected bypass around a backflow preventer when
the device is in need of testing, repair, or replacement.
   (C)   The consumer shall, upon notification, install the appropriate
containment device not to exceed the following time frame:
      (1)   High hazard: 60 days; or
      (2)   Moderate hazard: 90 days.
(2003 Code, § 25-603) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 INSPECTION, TESTING, AND REPAIR OF DEVICES.
   (A)   The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be set by the
Director, and shall be made by a certified tester who has been approved to
conduct inspections. Inspections shall be made of properties served by the
public water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are
deemed possible.
   (B)   Testing of backflow prevention devices shall be made by a certified
tester at the customer’s expense. Such tests are to be conducted upon
installation and annually thereafter and a record of all testing and repairs is
to be retained by the consumer. Copies of records must be provided to the
Director within 30 days after the completion of any testing or repair work.
   (C)   Any time that repair to backflow devices are deemed necessary, whether
through annual testing or routine inspection by the owner or by the Director,
these repairs must be completed within a specified time in accordance with the
degree of hazard.
(2003 Code, § 25-604) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   All connections for fire sprinkler systems connected with the public
water system shall be protected with an approved double check valve assembly as
a minimum requirement. All fire systems using toxic additives or booster pumps
shall be protected by an approved reduced pressure principle device at the
main.
   (B)   Dead ends such as fire hydrants piped in excess of 50 inches from a
potable source must be protected from backflow with a minimum approved double
check valve assembly installed within 50 inches from potable connection.
(2003 Code, § 25-605)
§ 52.07 IRRIGATION/SPRINKLER SYSTEM.
   All lawn sprinkler systems shall be equipped with a reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention device as required by the state’s Division of Health
Services.
(2003 Code, § 25-606) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 CHEMICAL HOLDING TANKS.
   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing pesticides,
fertilizers, other toxic chemicals, or their residues from a public water
system, except at a location equipped with an over-the-rim free discharge of
water or an approved reduced pressure backflow preventer properly installed on
the public water supply. No supplier of water shall permit the filling of such
special use containers except at locations so equipped.
(2003 Code, § 25-607) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 UNAPPROVED SOURCES OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected any supply of water
not approved by the state to the water system supplied by the Director. Any
such connections allowed by the Director must be in conformance with Title 10,
Chapter 10, Subchapter 10-D, Subparagraph .1006.
   (B)   In the event of contamination of a potable water system, the consumer
shall notify the Director immediately in order that appropriate measures may be
taken to overcome the contamination.
(2003 Code, § 25-608) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.10 OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   All other connections to the public water supply of the town shall have
backflow prevention as specified by the Director. This shall include water
mains installed but not maintained by the town, including, but not limited to,
mobile home parks, apartments, group housing projects, and other private
distribution systems, or similar hazard potential as determined by the Director
or his or her authorized representative.
(2003 Code, § 25-609) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Abbreviations
   
53.004   Severability
Requirements and Conditions; Discharges
   
53.015   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.017   Local limits
   
53.018   State requirements
   
53.019   Right of revision
   
53.020   Dilution
   
53.021   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.022   Accidental discharge/slug control plan
   
53.023   Hauled wastewater
   
53.024   Grease removal
Fees
   
53.035   Purpose
   
53.036   User charges
   
53.037   Surcharges
   
53.038   Pretreatment program administration charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit
   
53.050   Wastewater discharges
   
53.051   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
53.065   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.066   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.067   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standards;
deadline
   
53.068   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.069   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.070   Reports of potential problems
   
53.071   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.072   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.073   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
53.074   Analytical requirements
   
53.075   Sample collection
   
53.076   Timing
   
53.077   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring
   
53.090   Monitoring facilities
   
53.091   Inspection and sampling
   
53.092   Search warrants
   
53.093   Confidential information
Sewer Use; Enforcement
   
53.105   Administrative remedies
   
53.106   Other available remedies
   
53.107   Remedies nonexclusive
   
53.108   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
53.120   Upset
   
53.121   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
53.122   Bypass
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and
indirect contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for
the town and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal
laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   Promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   Protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   Ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use, and disposal requirements and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The town shall
designate an administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program hereafter
referred to as the POTW Director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW
Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be
delegated by the POTW Director to other town personnel. By discharging
wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, industrial users located
outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms and conditions
established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement actions, or
orders issued hereunder.
(2003 Code, § 25-1.1)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Environmental Management
of the state’s Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources or his
or her designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, authorized representative
shall mean:
         (a)   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
      (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state, or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1), (2), and (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not limited
to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic
tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The DISCHARGE or the introduction from any
nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33 U.S.C.
§ 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect discharge.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMITS. The maximum concentration
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined from the
analysis of any discrete or composited sample collected, independent of the
industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes,
operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or non-
discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations, or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with the Act § 405, (being 33 U.S.C. § 1345), or any criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (being 42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et
seq.), the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) (being 16
U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.), or more stringent state
criteria (including those contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to SWDA Title IV) (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.),
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREAT- MENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with the Act § 307(b) and (c) (being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) and (b))
which applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in
40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in §
53.015 and are developed under the authority of the Act pursuant to § 307(b)
(being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)), and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of
the Act (being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)), which will be applicable to such source if
such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of NEW SOURCE
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to the Act § 402, (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state pursuant
to G.S. § 143-215.3.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any WASTE as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial,
municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   POTW DIRECTOR. The Town Administrator designated with the responsibility for
the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable PRETREATMENT standard.
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the town in
compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, and local limits.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works, as defined by the Act § 212 (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned
in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or systems
used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater disposal
system who:
      (1)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons or
more;
      (2)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity (i.e.,
allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving the
indirect discharge;
      (3)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment standard;
or
      (4)   Is found by the town, the Division of Environmental Management, or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial
users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s
effluent quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
         (a)   Chronic violations. Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit in a six-month period.
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations.
            1.   Thirty-three percent or more of the measurements equal or
exceed the TRC multiplied by the limit (maximum or average) in a six-month
period.
            2.   There are two groups of TRCs:
               a.   For the conventional pollutants (BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and
grease): TRC = 1.4; and
               b.   For all other pollutants: TRC =1.2.
         (c)   Other violations. Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit
(average or daily maximum) that the control authority believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through, or
endangered the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public.
         (d)   Prevention. Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent
such a discharge.
      (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and periodic
compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be
significant.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.015.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT or DIRECTOR/ SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the
town to supervise the operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who
is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or
her duly authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.051.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(2003 Code, § 25-1.2)
§ 53.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
   (A)   BOD: Biochemical Oxygen Demand;
   (B)   C.F.R.: Code of Federal Regulations;
   (C)   COD: chemical oxygen demand;
   (D)   EPA: Environmental Protection Agency;
   (E)   gpd: gallons per day;
   (F)   l: liter;
   (G)   mg: milligrams;
   (H)   mg/l: milligrams per liter;
   (I)   G.S.: North Carolina General Statutes;
   (J)   NPDES: National Pollution Discharge Elimination System;
   (K)   O&M: operation and maintenance;
   (L)   POTW: publicly-owned treatment works;
   (M)   RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act;
   (N)   SIC: Standard Industrial Classification;
   (O)   SWDA: Solid Waste Disposal Act;
   (P)   TSS: total suspended solids;
   (Q)   TKN: total kjeldahl nitrogen; and
   (R)   U.S.C.: United States Code.
(2003 Code, § 25-1.2)
§ 53.004 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section, or subchapter of this chapter is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(2003 Code, § 25-11)
REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS; DISCHARGES
§ 53.015 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW, whether or not the user is a significant industrial user
or subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than five or more than ten and a
half or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (55°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   (a)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
53.023.
         (b)   Note: Discharge prohibitions in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(8)
above are mandatory of all SUOs.
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to fire or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act(being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic
Substances Control Act (being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate the
state’s water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A N.C.
Admin. Code 2B .0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21) Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and
      (23)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Storage. Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes
prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   Actions of Director. When the POTW Director determines that a user(s)
is contributing to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass
through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
53.065; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
53.050 and
53.051 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter
N, parts 405 through 471 and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (E)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.2)
§ 53.017 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following instantaneous maximum
allowable discharge limits:
Arsenic  0.003 mg/l
BOD      250 mg/l
Cadmium  0.003 mg/l
Chromium 0.05 mg/l
Copper   0.061 mg/l
Cyanide  0.041 mg/l
Lead     0.049 mg/l
Mercury  0.0003 mg/l
Nickel   0.021 mg/l
Silver   0.005 mg/l
TKN      40 mg/l
TSS      250 mg/l
Zinc     0.175 mg/l
 
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW’s maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based
limits in addition to or in place of concentration based limits.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.3)
§ 53.018 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.4)
§ 53.019 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.015, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.5)
§ 53.020 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.6) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.051 and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical pretreatment
standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
53.015 within the time limitations as specified by the EPA, the state, or the
POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the POTW
Director before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and
operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his, her, or their property and at his, her, or
their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for
flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil or sand, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at his, her, or their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.7)
§ 53.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the POTW Director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug
control plan. The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.070; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.8)
§ 53.023 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
53.015 through
53.024 or any other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.9) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024 GREASE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Grease and oil traps or other interceptors shall be provided at the
user’s expense when such user operates an establishment preparing, processing,
or serving food and/or food products. Grease interceptors can be required in
other industrial or commercial establishments when there are necessary in the
opinion of the POTW Superintendent for proper handling of liquid wastes
containing oil and\or grease in the amounts in excess of 100 mg/l by weight,
fat soluble, or for any flammable wastes. All such traps, tanks, chambers, or
other interceptors shall be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent
or his or her designee and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. All such interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of waste
content as required for their efficient operation, but not less often than
every 30 days, in order to maintain their minimum design capability to
intercept oils and greases from the wastewater discharge to the publicly owned
sanitary sewer. Failure to comply can result in the implementation of
enforcement procedures.
   (B)   Wastes removed from grease interceptors shall not be discharged into
the publicly owned sanitary sewer system. The owner shall be responsible for
the sanitary disposal of such wastes.
   (C)   (1)   A facility must keep interceptor cleaning records on file for a
minimum of three years.
      (2)   The following information must be maintained:
         (a)   Receipt for job performed, signed by contractor, and cost;
         (b)   Clean out date;
         (c)   Person responsible for cleaning;
         (d)   Name of firm performing the clean out; and
         (e)   Disposal method for and destination of material removed.
(2003 Code, § 25-2.10)
FEES
§ 53.035 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the implementation
of the program established herein.
   (B)   The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in a schedule of
sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and approved by the Town Board.
   (C)   A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from the POTW
Director.
(2003 Code, § 25-3.1)
§ 53.036 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge,
cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (B)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation, and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (C)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow,
concentration of wastewater, and percentage of maximum allowable headworks
loading.
   (D)   The Manager of the town shall review annually the sewage contributions
of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the
POTW, and will make recommendations to the Council or Board serving the town
for adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (E)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(2003 Code, § 25-3.2)
§ 53.037 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon:
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town;
      (2)   (a)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers
option, other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of
wastewater discharged to the sewer.
         (b)   Such devices shall be accessible and safely located, and the
measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved by the
town.
         (c)   The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
users expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town; or
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain, at his or her
own expense, a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(2003 Code, § 25-3.3)
§ 53.038 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(2003 Code, § 25-3.4)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT
§ 53.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the
POTW without first obtaining the permission of the town.
   (B)   When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request.
   (C)   The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require users to update this information.
(2003 Code, § 25-4.1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director’s determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination.  All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater, shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) above. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in §§
53.015 through
53.024, any of the priority pollutants (§ 307(a) the Act (being 33 U.S.C. §§
1317(a)) which the applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as
determined by a reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of
concern to the POTW; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act (being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(g)), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow, and
appurtenances by the size, location, and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   (a)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to
meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard.
         (b)   The following conditions apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months.
            2.   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and 15A N.C. Admin. Code 2H .0908(a),
as outlined in §
53.065;
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or, if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (D)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) above and the general permit conditions of the town
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority and shall be made available to the public upon
request. The contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points; and
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to division (A) above;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
53.105;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.105; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate
the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearings. The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with
its regular hearing procedure.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
53.999, or one issued an administrative order under §
53.105, shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing
officer designated by the POTW Director, upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30
days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order
within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW
Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered
or certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (H)(1) above may be
appealed to the Board serving the town upon filing a written demand within ten
days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division
(H)(2) shall be conducted in accordance with local hearing procedures. Failure
to make written demand within the time specified herein shall bar further
appeal. The Board serving the town shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written
copy of its decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (H)
(2) above, the Board serving the town shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Board serving the town.
      (4)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision
of the Council or Board serving the town is entered, pursuant to the hearing
conducted under division (H)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or
decision by filing a written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with
the Superior Court of the county along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days
after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review, the Board serving
the town shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy
of the official record.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as follows:
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational. Any changes or new conditions in the permit
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (B) above, the user
shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (J)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
         (e)   Notification requirements for slug loads; and
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily, and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine discharges;
         (e)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (f)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (g)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (h)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations; frequency of sampling; number, types, and standards for
tests; and reporting schedules;
         (i)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (j)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (k)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (l)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
53.077 and affording the POTW Director or his or her representatives access
thereto;
         (m)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
         (n)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         (o)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive,
accidental, or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems
to the system;
         (p)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and/or
         (q) Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (K)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (L)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (M)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance
with §
53.051, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(2003 Code, § 25-4.2) Penalty, see §
53.999
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.065 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a) The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director/Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process. Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations or mass, where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with
procedures set out in §
53.074.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.075.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule.
         (a)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M.
         (b)   The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard.
         (c)   A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the
requirements set out in §
53.066; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.051(C).
(2003 Code, § 25-5.1)
§ 53.066 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.065(B)(7).
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.2)
§ 53.067 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS;
DEADLINE.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
53.065(B)(4) through (B)(6).
   (B)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate.
   (C)   For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period.
   (D)   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
53.051(C).
(2003 Code, § 25-5.3)
§ 53.068 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of
requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
53.051(C).
   (C)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (D)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
53.074, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.4) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.069 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (B)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.051.
   (C)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
53.051 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (D)   (1)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include,
but are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of
any previously unreported pollutants.
      (2)   Note: EPA regulations do not define the term “significant change.”
However, it is recommended that changes of 20% or greater be considered
significant changes.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.5) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.070 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW
Director/ Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge; type of waste; concentration and volume, if known;
and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   (1)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing
the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to
prevent similar future occurrences.
      (2)   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.6)
§ 53.071 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.7) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.072 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify
the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The user
shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. The user is not required to resample if the POTW Director monitors
at the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the POTW Director samples
between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.8) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.073 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification and approval of the POTW Director.
   (B)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user; an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this division need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications of changed conditions
must be submitted under §
53.069. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
53.065 through
53.068.
   (C)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges
more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional
notification.
   (D)   In the case of any new regulation under the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921 et seq. identifying additional
characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a
hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities of
the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   (E)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (F)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.9)
§ 53.074 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by the EPA.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.10)
§ 53.075 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the POTW Director may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.11)
§ 53.076 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.12)
§ 53.077 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
   (B)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the town, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the POTW Director.
(2003 Code, § 25-5.13) Penalty, see §
53.999
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 53.090 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(2003 Code, § 25-6.1)
§ 53.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority, and the EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The town, approval
authority, and the EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force, which would require proper identification and clearance before entry
into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their
security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel
from the town, approval authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter, without
delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial
of the POTW Director’s/Superintendent’s, approval authority’s, or EPA’s access
to the user’s premises shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable
delays may constitute denial of access.
(2003 Code, § 25-6.2) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.092 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority, or the EPA has been refused access
to a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the POTW Director,
approval authority, or the EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
General Court with Jurisdiction of the town.
(2003 Code, § 25-6.3)
§ 53.093 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW Director/ Superintendent that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be
asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit, non-discharge
permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and the EPA upon
request.
(2003 Code, § 25-7)
SEWER USE; ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.105 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation, or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter, or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.999 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director/Superintendent
under this section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.051(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits, or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; and/or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions. The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
the environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit. Any user notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. A hearing will be held
within 15 days of the notice of suspension to determine whether the suspension
may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge permit terminated. In the event of
a failure to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW Director
shall take such steps, as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of
the sewer connection to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or
endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director shall reinstate the
wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user shall submit a
detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the POTW Director
prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of this chapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to
having its permit terminated:
      (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; and/or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (G)   Notice of termination. Noncompliant industrial users will be notified
of the proposed termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an
opportunity to show cause under §
53.105 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(2003 Code, § 25-8.1) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.106 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this chapter,
are available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination
against a noncompliant user.
   (B)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations.
         (a)   The District Attorney for (Judicial District #_____) may, at the
request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who violate the provisions of
G.S. § 143-215.6B.
         (b)   Note: Under state law, it is a crime to negligently violate any
term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or negligently fail
to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-
215.6B(f)); to knowingly and willfully violate any term, condition, or
requirement of a pretreatment permit, or knowingly and willfully fail to apply
for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(g));
to knowingly violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment
permit issued by local governments, or knowingly fail to apply for a
pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that a person is placed in imminent
danger of death or serious bodily injury (G.S. § 143-215.6B(h)); and to falsify
information required under G.S. Chapter 143, Article 21 (G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question;
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply; and
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or
remedying said nuisance.
(2003 Code, § 25-8.3)
§ 53.107 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with enforcement response plan of the town. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(2003 Code, § 25-8.4)
§ 53.108 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A N.C. Admin. Code 2H .0903(b)(5), with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12
months.
(2003 Code, § 25-9)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 53.120 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workperson-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(2003 Code, § 25-10.1)
§ 53.121 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   (A)   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.015(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
53.015(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(5) through (B)(7), and (B)(9) through (B)(23) if it
can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge,
alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass
through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (B)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(2), the affirmative defense outlined
in this section cannot apply to the specific prohibitions in §
53.015(B)(1) through (B)(4) and (B)(8).
(2003 Code, § 25-10.2)
§ 53.122 BYPASS.
   (A)   (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (A)(2) and (A)(3) below.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director/Superintendent, at least ten days
before the date of the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director/
Superintendent of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within 24 hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A
written submission shall also be provided within five days of this time the
user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a
description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including
exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director
may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has
been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director/Superintendent
may take an enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (A)(2)
above.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in divisions (A)(3)(a)1. through (A)(3)(a)3.
above.
   (B)   Note: The affirmative defense for bypass from the federal regulations
has not been incorporated into state pretreatment regulations either verbatim
or by reference. It will be incorporated when the state pretreatment
regulations are modified in 1993 to incorporate changes to the federal
regulations that have occurred since 1987 when the state regulations were last
modified. The state regulations governing NPDES permits do, however,
incorporate the bypass provision. DEM is of the opinion that local governments
may incorporate the bypass provision into their ordinances since such authority
is provided by the federal regulations and since state regulations do not
specifically prohibit the bypass provision, even though state pretreatment
regulations do not as of yet specify the bypass provision. Incorporation of
this provision within the chapter prior to change in the state pretreatment
regulations will prevent the necessity of changing the chapter at a later date
when the state pretreatment regulations are modified.
(2003 Code, § 25-10.3)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits
issued hereunder, may be fined up to $10,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:   
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
53.051(H).
(2003 Code, § 25-8.2)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Littering prohibited
   
54.02   Duty of business owners or occupant
   
54.03   Duty of customer
   
54.04   Deposit of dusty material restricted
   
54.05   Trespass upon sanitary landfill
   
54.06   Application of Ordinance of Chatham County
Garbage Collection
   
54.20   Definitions
   
54.21   Collection by town
   
54.22   Pre-collection practices
   
54.23   Frequency of collection
   
54.24   Non-local use of collection services
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see G.S. § 160A-193
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast, or deposit upon
any street, ally, sidewalk, or any yard or premises, public or private, any
filth of any kind, or cans, paper trash, paper containers, rubbish, bottles,
wood shavings, brush tree trimmings, or any other form of litter or waste
matter.
(2003 Code, § 11-101) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.02 DUTY OF BUSINESS OWNERS OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Generally. The owner or occupant of any store or other place of
business situated within the town shall exercise reasonable diligence at all
times to keep his or her premises clean of wastepaper, wrapping paper, paper
napkins, cartons, package containers, and other used or waste materials thrown
or left on said premises by its customers, and to take reasonable measures to
prevent same drifting or blowing to adjoining premises.
   (B)   Receptacles.
      (1)   Each place of business in the town shall provide a suitable
receptacle for the deposit of litter, trash, food, paper, or other garbage or
refuse by customers or members of the general public.
      (2)   Such receptacles shall be available for use during all hours the
business is open.
   (C)   Signs. Each and every business establishment shall place upon its
premises in a conspicuous place or places in close proximity to the receptacle
or receptacles above referred to, a sign or signs which shall, in essence,
convey to its customers a request that they use such receptacles for the
disposal of waste material.
(2003 Code, § 11-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.03 DUTY OF CUSTOMER.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer going upon the premises of another to,
in any manner, dispose of wastepaper, wrapping paper napkins, cartons, package
containers, and other used or waste materials except in receptacles provided
for such purposes.
(2003 Code, § 11-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 DEPOSIT OF DUSTY MATERIAL RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to unload any loose or unbagged lime,
fertilizer, or any other dusty materials or substances upon any lot or other
area within the town without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Mayor.
Such permit shall specifically approve the site for such unloading or
depositing of such dusty materials or substances.
(2003 Code, § 11-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.05 TRESPASS UPON SANITARY LANDFILL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon the sanitary landfill
operated by the town.
(2003 Code, § 11-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.06 APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE OF CHATHAM COUNTY.
   The county’s ten-year Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Plan is
incorporated in this section as if included at length herein.
(2003 Code, Chapter 11, Article III)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 54.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
materials.
   GARBAGE. The putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body waste)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, and solid market and
industrial waste, but excluding all hazardous and low-level radioactive waste.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste, consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, hardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, wood
glass, bedding, crockery, and other similar materials.
   TOWN. The Town of Pittsboro, North Carolina.
(2003 Code, § 11-201)
§ 54.21 COLLECTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of by the town.
   (B)   The manner in which refuse shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed
of by the town shall be under the supervision of the Town Manager. The Town
Manager shall have the authority to make regulations concerning the days of
collection, type, and location of waste containers and other manners pertaining
to the collection, conveyance, and disposal as he or she shall find necessary
and to change and modify the same after notice, provided that such regulations
are not contrary to the provisions thereof.
(2003 Code, § 11-202)
§ 54.22 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Preparation of refuse. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings, and similar
material shall be cut to lengths not to exceed four feet and securely tied in
bundles not more than two feet thick before being deposited for collection. All
other refuse and rubbish shall be placed and maintained in containers for
collection, or bagged as appropriate.
   (B)   Refuse containers.
      (1)   Refuse containers shall be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee,
or occupant of the premises. They shall be maintained in good condition. Any
container that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter or that may
have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect liable to hamper and injure the
person collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced upon notice.
The Manager shall have the authority to refuse collection services for failure
to comply herewith. Containers shall be made of metal or rigid plastic,
equipped with suitable handles and tight-fitting covers and shall be of such
weight that they can be handled by one person. Such private containers shall
have a capacity of not less than ten gallons nor more than 32 gallons in order
to achieve efficient equipment utilization.
      (2)   Every person producing or having refuse shall provide and keep on
his or her premises or property sufficient refuse containers to handle all the
accumulations or refuse in the interval between collections. Receptacles may be
secured on appropriate racks or other methods so they may not be turned over.
In the event that any person shall produce or accumulate refuse not practical
to store in a 32-gallon container, or shall accumulate more than one 90-gallon
containers of refuse container, or more than three 32-gallon containers of
refuse between collection intervals, shall be required to lease or purchase a
bulk refuse container approved by the town in order to receive collection
service. After July 1, 1988, only front-loading bulk refuse containers will be
approved and serviced by the town.
   (C)   Storing or refuse. No person shall place any refuse or rubbish in any
street, alley, or other public place upon any private property within the town
except in proper containers for collection or under express approval granted by
the Manager, nor shall any person throw or deposit any refuse in a stream or
any other body of water. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse or rubbish on
any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
   (D)   Points of collection. Individual refuse containers shall be placed for
collection at ground level on the property, at the curbside of the street from
which collection is made. Bulk refuse containers shall be located with the
approval of the town.
(2003 Code, § 11-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.23 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   Refuse accumulated by residences and small commercial establishments shall
be collected at least once a week at the curb. Where necessary to protect
public health, the Manager may have the authority to require that more frequent
collection be made. Refuse accumulated by commercial establishments requiring
not more than one bulk container shall be collected at least twice a week.
Commercial establishments desiring more frequent collection or requiring more
than one front-loading bulk container to service their accumulated refuse may
contract such services, subject to the town’s approval.
(2003 Code, § 11-204)
§ 54.24 NON-LOCAL USE OF COLLECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be
deposited for collection by the town any garbage, trash, or refuse in any
container within the town not generated or received in the normal course of
business within the town.
   (B)   Except as may be permitted hereinabove, no person who does not reside
within the town shall deposit or cause to be deposited for collection any
garbage, trash, or refuse in any container within the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn, upon any of the public
streets, within the town any combustible trash or refuse matter or any kind.
The burning of any such trash or refuse matter upon private property shall
conform to the provisions of the open burning ordinances of the town and the
state.
(2003 Code, § 11-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   BICYCLES AND BIKEWAYS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Unmuffled engine compression brake (Jake brake)
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE (JAKE BRAKE).
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE. A motor vehicle brake which is
activated or worked by the compression of the engine of a motor vehicle, and
which is not effectively muffled to prevent excessive noise. This is also known
as Jake brake, Jacob’s brake, engine brake, or dynamic braking device.
   (B)   Purpose. The use of engine compression brakes, also known as Jake
brake, Jacob’s brake, engine brake, or dynamic braking device, by motor
vehicles, creates noise which unreasonably and excessively disturbs the public,
and adoption of this section would further the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall use an engine braking system within the corporate
limits of the town which is any way activated or operated by the compression of
the engine of any such motor vehicle or any such unit or part thereof, except
in cases of emergency or necessary for the protection of persons and/or
property.
      (2)   The town will identify the areas in which engine braking is
prohibited and signs shall be conspicuously posted in such areas stating: No
engine braking or its equivalent.
   (D)   Emergency vehicle exemption. All emergency vehicles are exempt from
this section.
(Ord. passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Except as herein provided, violation of any provision of this title shall be
an infraction as provided by G.S. § 14-4 and punishable by a penalty of not
more than $50.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 14-4(b)
CHAPTER 71: BICYCLES AND BIKEPATHS
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Traffic regulations for bicycles
   
71.04   Yield to pedestrians
   
71.05   Blocking bicycle lanes and paths prohibited
   
71.06   Bicycle riding on sidewalks and walkways prohibited
   
71.07   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.08   Lamps and reflectors on bicycles
   
71.09   Bicycle helmets
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt procedures and standards for the
protection of bicyclists, motorists, and pedestrians on the streets and
bikeways of the town.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A non-motorized vehicle with two or three wheels, one or more
seats, and pedals or similar devices by which the vehicle is propelled.
   BIKEWAYS. All thoroughfares that explicitly provide for bicycle travel
including facilities existing within street and highway rights-of-way and
facilities along separate and independent corridors.
   BICYCLE LANE. Those bikeways on existing street rights-of-way where a
portion of the roadway is set aside for exclusive bicycle use and designated by
signs placed on vertical posts or stenciled on the pavement. Through-travel by
motor vehicles or pedestrians is prohibited. Cross-flows by motor vehicles and
pedestrians when necessary to gain access to and from a public street, alley,
private driveway, or other entranceway are permitted.
   BICYCLE PATH. Those appropriately marked bikeways on existing street rights-
of-way or on separate rights-of-way or easements or upon and across parks,
schools, or other publicly owned lands where a path is designated for the
exclusive or semi-exclusive use of bicycles. Use by pedestrians may or may not
be permitted. The parking of motor vehicles is prohibited. Cross-flows by motor
vehicles and pedestrians when necessary to gain access to and from a public
street, alley, private driveway, or other entrance way are permitted.
   BICYCLE ROUTE. Those bikeways on existing street rights-of-way where
bicycles share the roadway with motor vehicles. Recommended BICYCLE ROUTES may
be designated by signs placed on vertical posts or stenciled on the pavement.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections, or any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   GREENWAY. A corridor of urban, suburban, or rural space with contiguous,
free, and open public-access trails connecting neighborhoods, recreational
facilities (e.g., parks), and businesses which allows and encourages the use of
non-motorized transportation, particularly bicycle and pedestrian, for
commuting, travel, and recreation. A GREENWAY emphasizes naturally occurring
and planned vegetation, scenic beauty, and environmental protection, as well as
preservation of natural, cultural, and historical heritage.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every self-propelled device in, upon, or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
   PEDESTRIAN EASEMENT OR MULTI-USE EASEMENT. An easement alongside or near lot
lines for the purpose of pedestrian or bicycle traffic.
   STREET AND HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic. This definition
shall not be interpreted to limit or prohibit the use of a STREET OR HIGHWAY by
non-vehicular traffic or by all types of users, including pedestrians,
bicyclists, and drivers of motor vehicles.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES.
   All bicycles used and operated upon and across designated bikeways within
the town’s jurisdiction shall be considered vehicles and the riders of such
bicycles shall be subject to all provisions of this code and G.S. Ch. 20
applicable to the drivers of vehicles except those which by their nature can
have no application.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 71.04 YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   On and across bikeways through which pedestrian traffic is permitted, riders
on bicycles shall at all times yield the right-of-way to pedestrians.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 71.05 BLOCKING BICYCLE LANES AND PATHS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, stop, or stand any motor
vehicle in any bike lane and path designated as such, except when necessary to
gain access to and from a public street, alley, private driveway, or other
entrance way and except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual
loading and unloading of passengers or materials if otherwise permitted in this
chapter or if necessary to obey traffic regulations or signs or signals of a
police officer.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 BICYCLE RIDING ON SIDEWALKS AND WALKWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall ride any bicycle upon any sidewalk or walkway;
provided that tricycles or bicycles having wheels no more than 16 inches in
diameter per wheel may be ridden on sidewalks or walkways in the residential
districts of the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to certified law enforcement officers
who, in the course of their duties, shall be required to ride bicycles to
patrol on the sidewalks and walkways of the town.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard,
or toy vehicle shall attach same or himself or herself to any motor vehicle or
bicycle upon a public street or bikeway.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 LAMPS AND REFLECTORS ON BICYCLES.
   In accordance with G.S. § 20-129, every bicycle when in use at nighttime
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a light visible
from a distance of at least 300 feet to the front and with a reflector or light
on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall
be visible from a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear when directly in
front of lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 71.09 BICYCLE HELMETS.
   (A)   All persons under the age of 16 who operate a bicycle on a public
street, right-of-way, or on any property owned and operated by the town shall
wear a helmet which is securely fastened under the chin and which meets either
of the following:
      (1)   Standards established by the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI); or
      (2)   Standards established by the Snell Memorial Foundation’s 1984
standards for protective headgear.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on a public street, or right-of-way,
or on any property owned and operated by the town which is equipped to hold two
or more persons unless all passengers under the age of 16 wear a helmet which
is securely fastened under the chin and which meets the specifications outlined
in division (A)(1) above.
   (C)   The first violation of this section shall be dismissed upon the
submission by the offender of proof of purchase of protective gear meeting the
standards described herein. Any subsequent violation shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty not to exceed $50. If the offender is under the age of 16,
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the offender shall be responsible for
payment of the civil penalty.
(Ord. COA-2023-01, passed 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way traffic flow
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   Stop intersections
   
IV.   Trucks
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 20 and §§ 20-169 and 160A-296 et seq.
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC FLOW.
 
Street            Location                      Direction
Farrell Street    From West Street to Pittsboro Traffic to flow in a southerly
                  Elementary School Road        direction
McClenahan Street From West Street to Pittsboro Traffic to flow in a northerly
                  Elementary School Road        direction
Rectory Street    From Hanks Street to West     Traffic to flow in a southerly
                  Salisbury                     direction
 
(2003 Code, § 16-300)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   A maximum speed of 25 mph is established on the following
predominantly residential streets:
Street
Street
Brown Street
Circle Drive
Credle Street
Davie Street
East and West Cornwallis
Farrel Street
Fayetteville Street
Hanks Street
Hillcrest Drive
Honeysuckle Drive
J.A. Farrell Street
Johnston Street
Launis Street
Lindsey Street
Martin Luther King Drive
Masonic Street
McClenahan Street
Midway Street
Nooe Street
Oakwood Drive
Park Drive
Pittsboro Elementary School Road
Roberts Street
Small Street
Springdale Drive
Thompson Street from Martin Luther King Drive to Hillsboro Street
Thrift Street
Toomer Loop Road
 
(2003 Code, § 16-401)
   (B)   Unless otherwise posted, speed limits in all subdivisions shall be 25
mph.
(2003 Code, § 16-402)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall enter the following intersections of streets within
the town without first coming to a complete stop:
East Salisbury                   North Masonic Street
East Salisbury                   Small Street
Hanks Street                     Credle Street
Hillcrest Street                 Park Drive
Lindsey                          Credle Street
Park Drive                       Oakwood Drive
Pittsboro Elementary School Road McClenahan Street
South Masonic                    Chatham Street
West Salisbury                   Fayetteville Street
West Salisbury                   Johnston Street
West Salisbury                   North Farrell Street
 
(2003 Code, § 16-201)
   (B)   All vehicles shall come to a complete stop at intersections where stop
signs are installed. This schedule is to include all streets on the town street
system.
(2003 Code, § 16-202)
Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCKS.
   (A)   No truck trailer or other vehicle designed or operated for the
transportation of property with more than two axles shall be operated on:
 
Street                           Location
Davie Street                     From East Street (U.S. 64) to Thompson Street
J.A. Farrell Street              From East Street (U.S. 64) to Thompson Street
Martin Luther King Drive         From East Street to Thompson Street
Park Drive/Oakwood Drive         From Hillsboro Street (U.S. 15-501 North) to
                                 Old Graham Road (SR )
Pittsboro Elementary School Road From Sanford Road (U.S. 15-501 South) to N.C.
                                 902
West Salisbury Street            From intersection with Credle/Fayetteville
                                 Street to West Street (U.S. 64 West)
 
(2003 Code, § 16-501)
   (B)   This schedule shall not prohibit emergency vehicles; trucks or
trailers owned by the town; trucks or trailers owned by public utilities;
trucks or trailers owned by contractor while engaged in construction, street
improvements, and street utilities; or trucks or trailers involved in
deliveries to residences or businesses on the listed streets.
(2003 Code, § 16-502)
   (C)   This schedule shall not apply in the event of officially established
detours where such truck traffic could lawfully by operated upon the street for
which such detour is established.
(2003 Code, § 16-503)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited/restricted parking
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 20 and §§ 20-169 and 160A-296 et seq.
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED/RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking prohibited. Parking shall be prohibited at the following
locations at all times:
 
Street                 Location               Side(s)    Prohibition/
                                                         Restriction
Beck Street            From East Street (U.S.           Parking prohibited at
                       64) to Thompson Street            all times
Catham Street          From Sanford Road to             Parking prohibited at
                       Small (Recommended)               all times
Elementary School Road From McClenahan Street Both sides Parking prohibited at
                       to Farrell Street                 all times
                       100 feet north from               Parking prohibited at
Thompson Street        intersection with N.   South side all times
                       Masonic Street
                       From intersection with
West side of Martin    Highway 64 East to the           Parking prohibited at
Luther King            Chatham County                    all times
                       Recycling Center
Westside Sanford Road  From traffic circle to           Parking prohibited at
(U.S. 15-501 South)    Robeson Creek Bridge              all times
 
(2003 Code, § 16-100)
   (B)   Two-hour parking shall be permitted.
 
Street           Location
                Northeast and northwest quadrants of traffic circle
Hillsboro Street From Courthouse traffic circle to intersection of Thompson/
                 Hanks Street
 
(2003 Code, § 16-105)
   (C)   Parking permitted. Parking shall be permitted on streets not specified
so long as traffic flow from both directions is not impeded.
(2003 Code, § 16-106)
   (D)   Parking prohibited or restricted specifically designated areas.
      (1)   Parking in handicapped zones is prohibited unless a proper
handicapped tag is displayed in accordance with the general statutes.
(2003 Code, § 16-107.1)
      (2)   Parking shall be prohibited in designated yellow zones,
specifically fire lanes, fire hydrants, and intersections.
(2003 Code, § 16-107.2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
74.02   Purpose
   
74.03   Definitions
   
74.04   Rules and regulations
   
74.05   Registration, inspection and fee prior to usage
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The regulation of golf carts is necessary to address the interests of public
safety. Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets, roads and highways, hereinafter "road(s)", and the town in no way
advocates or endorses their operation on roads. By regulating their operation,
the town is merely trying to address obvious safety issues. The adoption of
this chapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that the operation of
golf carts on roads is safe or advisable if done in accordance with this
chapter. All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts on roads do so at
their own risk and peril, and must be observant of and attentive to the safety
of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists,
bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no liability under any theory of
liability for permitting carts to be operated on roads under special
legislation granted by the state legislature. Any person who operates a golf
cart must procure liability insurance sufficient to cover the risks involved in
its use on the roads of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 74.02 PURPOSE. 
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to regulate the use of golf carts
within the town to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons operating
golf cart(s) within the town, and to protect the safety of their passengers and
other users of roads.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 74.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by North
Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than that required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes, and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provision, see G.S. § 20-4.01(12a).
   OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart on roads.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 74.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This chapter establishes the following rules and regulations in the interest
of public safety.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public road or
street with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
   (B)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 35
mph. However, once this segment of road has been traversed, the golf cart is
still required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed limit of 35
mph or less. In order to decrease crossing distance, golf carts must cross in a
manner that is the most direct route, i.e., no riding along a road or crossing
at an angle. Under no circumstance is a golf cart allowed to cross a control
access facility other than at bridges that cross over or under a control access
facility.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with its operation, and must have liability insurance
coverage that will cover the use of the golf cart in an amount not less than
required by state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways in the
state.
   (D)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be 16 years old or older. No
person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to drive upon the
public streets, roads and highways of the state, and then only in accordance
with a valid driver's license. Golf cart operators must carry their driver's
license on their person at all times while operating a golf cart on public
roads.
   (E)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets and roads must
adhere to all applicable state and local laws, regulations and ordinances,
including, but not limited to, those banning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart
containing an open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads.
   (F)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town that govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
   (G)   (1)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart
at any one time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer.
The operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of a golf cart not
designed to carry passengers, such as the part of the golf cart designed to
carry golf bags.
      (2)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater
than 20 mph. No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than what is
reasonable and prudent for existing conditions.
   (H)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (I)   Golf carts must park in designated spaces in such a manner that
multiple golf carts can utilize the space. All parking rules and limits apply.
Parking on sidewalks is prohibited.
   (J)   Golf carts must have basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification or serial number. Such equipment must
include all safety devices as installed by the manufacturer, including s
rearview mirror and a rear triangle reflector of the same type required by
state law.
   (K)   Golf carts without lights may be operated only during daylight hours.
Golf carts meeting the requirements set forth below may operate at any time:
      (1)   Golf carts having a mechanical turn signal indicator;
      (2)   Golf carts having two operating headlights, one on each side of the
front of the golf cart, and two operating tail lights, one on each side of the
rear of the cart;
      (3)   All four lights must be visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (L)   All golf carts must be equipped with a type 1 or type 2 seatbelt
assembly conforming to the requirements set forth in the safety standards in 49
C.F.R. § 571.500. (2001-356, s. 5.)
   (M)   All occupants must comply with North Carolina's Child Passenger Safety
Law, G.S. § 20-137.1.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   The operator of a golf cart must complete a golf cart registration
application and submit it to the town for approval. Before driving on public
roads, the operator of a golf cart must have been issued a valid registration.
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, liability insurance, and a
completed waiver of liability, releasing the town from liability that may arise
as a result of operation of a golf cart inside the town. These documents must
be in the golf cart at all times while in operation on public roads.
   (C)   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of
safety equipment as set forth above in this chapter.
   (D)   All golf operators must present a valid driver’s license while
operating a golf cart on a public road.
   (E)   The registration sticker shall be valid for no more than one year and
must be visible on a golf cart operated on a public road.
   (F)   Lost or stolen permits or stickers are the responsibility of the owner
and must be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an infraction
in accordance with G.S. Ch. 20, for which the maximum penalty shall be $50.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   NOISES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Joint liability for violations
   
90.02   Water flow obstructions
Noxious Weeds and Similar Nuisances
   
90.15   Deemed unlawful
   
90.16   Notice to abate
   
90.17   Abatement by town
Mosquito Control
   
90.30   Definition
   
90.31   Presumption of violation
   
90.32   Enforcement
   
90.33   Breeding places prohibited; exception
   
90.34   Health Officer’s right of entry
   
90.35   Methods of treatment
Noxious Weeds and Grass and Accumulation of Refuse
   
90.50   Identification of types of nuisances
   
90.51   Town Manager responsibility
   
90.52   Owner of property responsibility
   
90.53   Abatement
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 1-539, Ch. 130A, 131A, 131E, §§ 130A-34 et
seq., 136-18(21) 160A-174, and 160A-193
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 JOINT LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, lessee, tenant, or occupant or person in charge of any building
or premises where there shall be any nuisance or any violation of any provision
of this code or town ordinance relating to health and sanitation shall be
jointly and severally liable therefor; each of them may be required to abate
the same or comply with the order of the Board of Commissioners within the time
prescribed in said order.
(2003 Code, § 12-101)
§ 90.02 WATER FLOW OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any obstruction in any waterway
so that the water shall accumulate on any street, or in any other manner to
obstruct the flow of water through or from any street of the town, whether such
obstruction be placed upon his or her property or that of any other.
(2003 Code, § 12-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND SIMILAR NUISANCES
§ 90.15 DEEMED UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land
in the town to permit to exist on any such lot or parcel of land any condition,
which may be declared to be noxious, detrimental to health, or to constitute a
nuisance.
(2003 Code, § 12-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Health Officer that there
exists on any lot or parcel of land in the town any of the conditions
enumerated in §
90.15, he or she shall forthwith give the owner thereof notice, served upon
such owner by a police officer of the town, or in the event said service cannot
be had after a reasonable attempt is made, by publishing the same in a
newspaper published in the town once a week for two consecutive weeks, that
said condition exists and that he or she shall have 15 days from the date of
such service, or from the final date of publication, in which to remedy the
same or the town shall cause to be remedied.
(2003 Code, § 12-203)
§ 90.17 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   If the person upon whom such notice is served fails, neglects, or
refuses to remedy said condition within the time allowed, the Health Officer
shall certify said fact to the Town Manager who shall forthwith cause said
condition to be remedied under the direction of the Health Officer.
   (B)   The actual costs incurred by the town in so remedying such condition
shall be levied against the lot or parcel of land upon which such condition
existed; and shall be a lien thereon, enforceable in the same manner as a lien
for real property as valorem taxes.
(2003 Code, § 12-204)
MOSQUITO CONTROL
§ 90.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION OF WATER. Those contained in ditches, pools, ponds (natural or
artificial), excavations, holes, depressions, open cesspools, privy vaults,
fountains, cisterns, tanks, shallow wells, barrels, troughs (except horse
troughs in frequent use), urns, cans, boxes, bottles, tubs, buckets, defective
house roof gutters, tanks of flush closets, or other similar containers.
(2003 Code, § 12-301)
§ 90.31 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION.
   The natural presence of mosquito larvae in standing or running water shall
be evidence that mosquitoes are there, and failure to prevent such breeding
within three days after due notice by the Health Officer shall be deemed a
violation of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 12-302) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   Should the person responsible for the condition giving rise to the breeding
of mosquitoes fail or refuse to take necessary measures to prevent the same,
within three days after due notice has been given to the town, is hereby
authorized to do so, and all necessary costs incurred by it for this purpose
shall be a charge against the property owner or other person offending, as the
case may be.
(2003 Code, § 12-303)
§ 90.33 BREEDING PLACES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to have, keep, maintain, cause, or permit within the
town any collection of standing or flowing water in which mosquitoes breed or
are likely to breed, unless such collection of water is treated so as to
effectually prevent such breeding.
(2003 Code, § 12-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.34 HEALTH OFFICER’S RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   For the purposes of enforcing the provisions of the subchapter, the Health
Officer may, at all reasonable times, enter in and upon any premises within his
or her jurisdiction.
(2003 Code, § 12-305)
§ 90.35 METHODS OF TREATMENT.
   The method of treatment of any collection of water directed toward the
prevention of breeding of mosquitoes shall be approved by the Health Officer,
and may be one or more of the following:
(2003 Code, § 12-306)
   (A)   Screening with wire netting of at least 16 meshes to the inch each way
or with any other material which will effectually prevent the ingress or egress
of mosquitoes;
(2003 Code, § 12-306.1)
   (B)   Complete emptying every seven days unscreened containers, together
with their thorough drying or cleaning;
(2003 Code, § 12-306.2)
   (C)   Using an approved larvicide applied under the direction of the Health
Officer;
(2003 Code, § 12-306.3)
   (D)   Covering completely the surface of the water with kerosene, petroleum,
or paraffin oil once every seven days;
(2003 Code, § 12-306.4)
   (E)   Cleaning and keeping sufficiently free of vegetable growth and other
obstructions and stocking with mosquito-destroying fish;
(2003 Code, § 12-306.5)
   (F)   Proper disposal by the removal or destruction of tin cans, tin boxes,
broken or empty bottles, and similar articles likely to hold water; and
(2003 Code, § 12-306.6)
   (G)   Effective drainage of all impounded water in ditches, pools, ponds,
excavations, holes, depressions, and marshes.
(2003 Code, § 12-306.7)
NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS AND ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE
§ 90.50 IDENTIFICATION OF TYPES OF NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate city limits is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
(2003 Code, § 12-401)
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 12 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
(2003 Code, § 12-401.1)
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
(2003 Code, § 12-401.2)
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
(2003 Code, § 12-401.3)
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned icebox, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish, or similar items; and/or
(2003 Code, § 12-401.4)
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county’s Health Department.
(2003 Code, § 12-401.5)
§ 90.51 TOWN MANAGER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Town Manager, upon notice from any persons of the possible
existence of any of the conditions described in §
90.50, shall cause to be made by the appropriate county Health Department
official or town official such investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
90.50.
(2003 Code, § 12-402.1)
   (B)   If it appears that such conditions exist, the Town Manager shall cause
to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the
conditions may exist a notice stating that reasons why the conditions may
constitute a violation and that a hearing will be held before the Town Manager
at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the
delivery or mailing of the notice. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling such hearings.
(2003 Code, § 12-402.2)
   (C)   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises in question of the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the
receipt of such written notice.
(2003 Code, § 12-402.3)
§ 90.52 OWNER OF PROPERTY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects, or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days from receipt of said order, the Town Manager shall
cause said condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of
the town go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance
under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Manager.
Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within the time
allowed by this subchapter, request the town, in writing, to remove such
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(2003 Code, § 12-403.1)
   (B)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of
such charges to the owner or other person in possession of such premises with
instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(2003 Code, § 12-403.2)
   (C)   In the event that charges for the removal or abatement of a public
nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of
charges as provided for in §
90.53, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(2003 Code, § 12-403.3)
§ 90.53 ABATEMENT.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm, or corporation violating the
provisions of this subchapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(2003 Code, § 12-404)
CHAPTER 91: NOISES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions   
   
91.03   Standards
Maximum Permitted Sound Levels
   
91.15   Sound amplifying equipment
   
91.16   Operating above sound limits prohibited
   
91.17   Musical group
   
91.18   Maximum sound levels
Noises Prohibited
   
91.30   General prohibitions
   
91.31   Specific prohibitions
   
91.32   Exemptions
Permit to Exceed Limits
   
91.45   Application and permit
   
91.46   Timeliness of application
   
91.47   Action by Town Manager
   
91.48   Consideration by Town Manager
   
91.49   Application requirements
   
91.50   Cooperation with police
   
91.51   Denial of permit
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-125 and 160A-184
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Noise Control Code for the Town of
Pittsboro.” It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in
creating, permit, continue, or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud
or disturbing noises in the town. Noises of such disturbing character,
intensity, or duration as to be detrimental to the quality of life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
(2003 Code, Chapter 17) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
terminology used in this chapter, not defined below, shall be in conformance
with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) or its successor body.
(2003 Code, § 17-101)
    A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so read is
designed dB(A).
(2003 Code, § 17-101.1)
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.2)
   EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purposes of preventing or
alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or imminent peril.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.3)
   NUISANCE NOISE LEVELS. Noise levels which do not exceed the noise thresholds
but create an irritating impact sufficient to disturb an individual’s sleep
pattern or the peace and quiet of a residential neighborhood.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.4)
   OUTDOOR AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound using amplifying equipment whose sound is
outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside
through open doors or windows or other openings in the building.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.5)
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT. Any device for the amplification of the human
voice, music, or any other sound, including juke boxes, stereos, and radios.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.6)
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of a
SOUND LEVEL meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C, as
specified in American National Standards Institute Specifications for the SOUND
LEVEL meters (ANSI SI.4-1971 or the latest approved version thereof). If the
frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.7)
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS
detector, integrator, or time average output meter, and weighting network used
to measure sound pressure levels.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.8)
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the
ratio of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20 micronewtons
per square meter.
(2003 Code, § 17-101.9)
§ 91.03 STANDARDS.
   Standards, instrumentation, personnel, measurement procedures, and reporting
procedures to be used in the measurement of sound as provided for in this
section shall be those as specified herein.
(2003 Code, § 17-102)
   (A)   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter using
the “A” weighting scale, set on “slow” response.
(2003 Code, § 17-102.1)
   (B)   (1)   Sound level meters shall be of at least Type Three meeting
American National Standard Institute Incorporated (ANSI) SI.4-1971
requirements.
      (2)   The entire sound measurement system shall be serviced and
calibrated and operated as recommended by the manufacturer.
      (3)   Persons using the sound level meters shall be trained in sound
level measurement and the operation of sound level measurement.
(2003 Code, § 17-102.2)
   (C)   The Town Manager or his or her designee shall issue a general order
adopting standards and procedures for sound level measurements and enforcement
consistent with this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 17-102.3)
MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND LEVELS
§ 91.15 SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The use of sound amplifying equipment is limited to the conditions
specified in this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 17-201)
   (B)   Provided, however, that sound levels originating from commercially
zoned property shall not exceed the limits set forth herein when measured at
the nearest residentially zoned property.
(Ord. 0-26-10, passed 7-26-2010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 OPERATING ABOVE SOUND LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   No person or group of persons shall operate or cause to be operated any
source of sound in such a manner as to create a sound level which, at its peak,
exceeds the limits set forth herein below when measured beyond the property
line from which the sound originates.
(2003 Code, § 17-202) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 MUSICAL GROUP.
   (A)   A live musical group or individual using sound amplifying equipment
may operate outdoors only if the business manager or an authorized agent of
that business manager has been granted a permit.
   (B)   This permit may be secured after it is signed by an authorized agent
of the musical group and by a representative of the individual organization or
the group retaining the services of the musical group and on whose premises the
amplifying equipment is to be used.
(2003 Code, § 17-203) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS.
   The following are established as maximum sound levels:
(2003 Code, § 17-204)
   (A)   Nighttime sound levels (after 11:00 p.m. until 8:00 a.m.) may not
exceed 50 dB(A) except as noted in division (C) below;
(2003 Code, § 17-204.1)
   (B)   Daytime/evening sound levels (between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.) may
not exceed 60 dB(A) except as noted in division (C) below;
(2003 Code, § 17-204.2)
   (C)   Daytime/evening sound levels in excess of 60 dB(A) will be permitted
upon issuance of a permit and allow sound levels exceeding those set above as
follows:
      (1)   Thursday evening (5:00 p.m. through 11:00 p.m. Thursday): 70 dB(A);
      (2)   Friday evening (5:00 p.m. through midnight Friday): 70 dB(A); and
      (3)   Saturday (10:00 a.m. through midnight Saturday): 70 dB(A).
(2003 Code, § 17-204.3)
   (D)   Except as otherwise allowed by §§
91.32 and
91.45(A), a permit to exceed sound levels may only be issued during the days
and times listed in division (C)(3) above, to a maximum level of 70 dB(A). No
outside-amplified sound will be allowed unless a permit has been issued,
subject to the exemptions set out in §
91.32.
(2003 Code, § 17-204.4)
Penalty, see §
91.99
NOISES PROHIBITED
§ 91.30 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to create, cause, or allow the continuance of any
loud, disturbing, unusual, frightening, or unnecessary noise, particularly
during nighttime, which prevents or unreasonably interferes with neighboring
residents’ reasonable use of their properties.
   (B)   Such noise may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(2003 Code, § 17-300)
      (1)   Yelling, shouting, whistling, or singing on the public streets or
private property at nighttime;
(2003 Code, § 17-301)
      (2)   Noise resulting from loading, unloading, opening, or otherwise
handling boxes, crates, containers, garbage cans, or other similar objects
during nighttime;
(2003 Code, § 17-302)
      (3)   Noise resulting from the repair, rebuilding, or testing of any
motor vehicle during nighttime;
(2003 Code, § 17-303)
      (4)   Noise resulting from the playing of any radio, phonograph, musical
instrument, television, or any such device, particularly during nighttime; and
(2003 Code, § 17-304)
      (5)   Nuisance noise which does not exceed the noise threshold but
creates an irritating impact sufficient to disturb an individual’s sleep
pattern or the peace of a residential neighborhood.
(2003 Code, § 17-305)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts are prohibited and shall be considered nuisance acts:
   (A)   To produce noise from any type of watercraft or motorized vehicle
including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, buses, motorcycles, model
cars, mini-bikes, go carts, all-terrain vehicles, unlicensed motorized
vehicles, motorized toys, or any other type of motorized vehicle in a manner as
follows:
      (1)   To use or permit to be used any motorized vehicle that is so out of
repair, or loaded, or otherwise operated or maintained in a condition such that
the vehicle creates loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or any
other loud, raucous, or disturbing noise;
      (2)   To operate any motorized vehicle without a muffler, or with a
defective or damaged muffler, such that the vehicle emits an unreasonably loud,
annoying, or disturbing noise, or to operate any motorized vehicle with a
muffler that is constructed or built to intentionally emit an unreasonably
loud, annoying, or disturbing noise;
      (3)   To sound any horn or any type of signal device from, on, or in any
type of vehicle except when the horn or signal device is used as a warning
device;
      (4)   To use any siren or similar device upon any vehicle, other than
police, fire, or other emergency vehicles authorized or required by law to
maintain such a device;
      (5)   To race the engine of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is not
in motion, except when necessary, so to do in the course of repairing,
adjusting, or testing the same;
      (6)   To race the engine of any motor vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion;
      (7)   To drive a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause a tire or
tires to spin, skid, slide, or slip and thereby make loud, raucous, disturbing,
or excessive noise. This includes, but is not limited to, the operation of a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the friction between the tires and pavement
create or make a loud, disturbing, or unnecessary noise. This is commonly known
as burning rubber or scratching off;
      (8)   To play or operate any radio, cassette player, CD/DVD player, or
any other sound producing device, instrument, or apparatus installed in and/or
located in, on, or adjacent to any type of watercraft or motorized vehicle such
that the speaker volume is clearly audible from more than 30 feet from the
vehicle regardless of whether said vehicle is traveling on a public or private
street, parked on public or private property, or stopped in traffic. The
operator or possessor of said vehicle is the responsible party;
      (9)   To create any loud, raucous, or disturbing noise in connection with
the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of
bales, boxes, crates, and containers; and
      (10)   To use an unmuffled engine compression brake system, also known as
Jake brake, except in cases of emergency or necessary for the protection of
persons and/or property.
   (B)   Operating or permitting the operation of any mechanical devices or
loudspeaker, without a permit to do so, in a fixed or movable position exterior
to any building in such a manner that the sound therefrom is in excess of the
maximum decibel level as described in §
91.18;
   (C)   Operating or permitting the operation of any power saw, sander, drill,
grinder, leaf blower, lawn mower, or other garden equipment or tools of a
similar nature, outdoors during nighttime;
   (D)   The use of firing explosives, firearms, fireworks, or similar devices
which create impulsive sound; and
   (E)   The sounding of a security alarm, for more than 20 minutes after being
notified by law enforcement personnel.
(2003 Code, § 17-306) (Ord. passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic on streets, see Title VII
§ 91.32 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
(2003 Code, § 17-307)
   (A)   Sound emanating from regular scheduled outdoor events with a permit;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.1)
   (B)   Construction operations from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on weekdays and
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturday; such work is
prohibited on Sunday for which building permits have been issued, or
construction operations not requiring permits due to ownership of the project
by an agency of government; provided all equipment is operated in accord with
the manufacturer’s specifications and with all standard mufflers and noise
reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition. Any exceptions to
this provision must comply with §§
91.45 through
91.51, which describes the process, the procedure by which permits to exceed
limits may be obtained;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.2)
   (C)   Noise resulting from safety signals, warning devices, and emergency
pressure relief valves;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.3)
   (D)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to any emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.4)
   (E)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit therefor has been granted by
the town in accordance with the above. Regulations of noises emanating from
operations under permit shall be according to conditions and limits stated on
the permit and contained above;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.5)
   (F)   Unamplified and amplified sound at street fairs conducted by or for
the town;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.6)
   (G)   All noises coming from the normal operations of properly equipped
watercraft;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.7)
   (H)   All noises coming from the normal operation of motor vehicles properly
equipped with the manufacturer’s standard mufflers and noise-reducing
equipment;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.8)
   (I)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on federal holidays;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.9)
   (J)   Noises resulting from lawn mowers, agricultural equipment, and
landscape maintenance equipment used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on weekdays, and between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekends, when
operated with all manufactures standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment
in use and in operating condition;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.10)
   (K)   Noise resulting from sound amplification equipment used in conjunction
with telecommunications systems on business properties to notify employees of
incoming phone calls, providing that this system be used only between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., and that any speakers attached to the system be
oriented toward the interior of the property;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.11)
   (L)   Noises resulting from emergency work necessary to restore property to
a safe condition following a fire, accident, or natural disaster, or to restore
public utilities, or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
(2003 Code, § 17-307.12)
   (M)   Noises resulting from the provision of government services; and
(2003 Code, § 17-307.13)
   (N)   Noise resulting from the provision of sanitation services.
(2003 Code, § 17-307.14)
PERMIT TO EXCEED LIMITS
§ 91.45 APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person or group of persons may produce or cause to be produced
sound in excess of 60 dB(A) only during the hours specified in §
91.18, and only if a permit to exceed the limit for the time and place of the
activity has been previously issued by the Town Manager.
(2003 Code, § 17-401)
   (B)   Any person or group of persons desiring a permit shall apply as
provided herein and shall provide all information required.
(2003 Code, § 17-402)
§ 91.46 TIMELINESS OF APPLICATION.
   The business manager or authorized agent or any person or group of persons
desiring a permit for a live musical group or individuals to perform outdoors
using sound amplifying equipment must make application 48 hours prior to the
activity for which the permit is requested.
(2003 Code, § 17-403)
§ 91.47 ACTION BY TOWN MANAGER.
   The Town Manager or his or her designee will act upon all requests for
permits.
(2003 Code, § 17-404)
§ 91.48 CONSIDERATION BY TOWN MANAGER.
   In considering and acting on all permits pursuant to this chapter, the Town
Manager or his or her designee, shall consider, but shall not be limited to,
the following, in issuing or denying such permit:
   (A)   The timeliness of the application;
   (B)   The time of the event;
   (C)   Other activities in the vicinity of the location proposed;
   (D)   The frequency of the application;
   (E)   The effect of the activity on the residential areas of the town;
   (F)   Impact on surrounding areas;
   (G)   Previous experience with the applicant; and
   (H)   Previous violations, if any, of the application.
(2003 Code, § 17-405)
§ 91.49 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit application will require the payment of a $5 administration
fee.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.1)
   (B)   The Town Manager or his or her designee may require that no sound
speakers shall be set up more than ten feet above the ground.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.2)
   (C)   The Town Manager or his or her designee may require that the permit
holders change the arrangement of loud speakers or the sound instruments so as
to minimize the disturbance to surrounding areas resulting from the position or
orientation of the speakers or from atmospherically or geographically caused
dispersal of sound beyond the property line.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.3)
   (D)   The Town Manager may require that the permit holder notify at least
one adult at every residential address within 250 feet of the site of the
proposed sound source that a permit has been issued. Such notification must be
in writing and be given 24 hours prior to the starting time of the permitted
activity.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.4)
§ 91.50 COOPERATION WITH POLICE.
   (A)   Permit holders shall cooperate with the Police Department in enforcing
the this chapter by having the permit holder available at the site of the event
during the entire time for which a permit has been issued and capable of
assisting the police in enforcing the Noise Control Ordinance.
   (B)   Failure of such permit holder to be present or to assist the police in
complying with this chapter will be cause for immediate revocation of said
permit and cessation of permitted activity.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.5)
§ 91.51 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Manager or his or her designee may deny a request to exceed
the limits or to operate sound-amplifying equipment to any individual, group,
organization, or musical group who has held a permit to exceed normal noise
levels within the previous six months, with or without permit.
   (B)   All permits issued pursuant to this subchapter shall contain a
statement of the penalties for violations set forth herein.
(2003 Code, § 17-406.6)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   First offense. Any person who violates any portion of this chapter
shall receive an oral order to cease or abate the noise immediately, or within
a reasonable time period.
(2003 Code, § 17-501)
   (B)   Nighttime offenses/subsequent offenses. If a second violation occurs
within 60 days of the first offense or if an offense occurs during nighttime,
an oral order to cease or abate need not be issued prior to issuing a citation
for violation of any portion of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 17-502)
   (C)   Civil penalty.
      (1)   If the order to cease or abate the noise is not complied with or if
a second violation occurs within 60 days of the first offense or if an offense
occur during nighttime, a person or persons responsible for the violation may
be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.
      (2)   Violators may be issued a written citation, which must be paid
within five days of the issued date and time.
      (3)   The Town Attorney or his or her designee is authorized to file a
civil action on behalf of the town to collect any unpaid citations, and the
Police Chief or his or her designee is authorized to verify and sign complaints
on behalf of the town in such civil actions.
      (4)   A police officer or other employee duly authorized to enforce this
chapter may issue a citation for violation of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 17-503)
   (D)   Remedies. This chapter may also be enforced through equitable remedies
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2003 Code, § 17-504)
   (E)   Criminal penalty.
      (1)   In addition to or in lieu of such civil penalties or other
remedies, violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175, as amended, punishable for each violation by a fine
of up to $500.
      (2)   A police officer or other officer enforcing subject matter
jurisdiction or other duly authorized noise control officer may initiate the
criminal process as provided by law.
(2003 Code, § 17-505)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Bird sanctuary
   
92.03   Adoption of Chatham County animal control ordinance
Domestic Animals
   
92.15   Running at large prohibited
   
92.16   Vicious animals
   
92.17   Teasing and molesting
   
92.18   Injuring animals
   
92.19   Cruel treatment
   
92.20   Impounding animals
   
92.21   County animal control officer
   
92.22   Invalidation of any selection
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 19A-1 et seq., 67-1 et seq., 143-440 et
seq., 160A-182, 160A-184, 160A-186, 160A-187, 160A-188, 160A-193, 160A-194,
160A-212, and 160A-493
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE. Habitual or repeated chasing, snapping,
attacking pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicles, or turning over garbage cans;
damaging gardens, flowers, and vegetables; or the running at large of a female
animal during the erotic stage of copulation.
(2003 Code, § 6-106)
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when he or she is off
the property of his or her owner and not under control of a competent person.
(2003 Code, § 6-102)
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
harboring, or taking care of any animal. The OWNER is responsible for the care,
actions, and behavior of his or her animals.
(2003 Code, § 6-101)
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter
if he or she is controlled by means of a chain, leash, or other like device; or
is sufficiently near the owner or handler to be under his or her direct control
and is obedient to that person’s command; or is on or within a vehicle being
driven or parked; or is within a secure enclosure.
(2003 Code, § 6-103)
   STRAY DOG. Any dog within the town wandering at large or lost and not having
an owner.
(2003 Code, § 6-105)
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or by any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin, or one who
habitually or repeatedly attacks livestock or other pets.
(2003 Code, § 6-104)
§ 92.02 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   Designation. The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of
the town is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
(2003 Code, § 6-200)
   (B)   Protection of bird life. It shall be unlawful for any person to trap,
hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot or molest in any manner, any bird or other
wildfowl or to rob bird nests or wildfowl nests in the town.
(2003 Code, § 6-201)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ADOPTION OF CHATHAM COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   The Chatham County Animal Control Ordinance is hereby incorporated in this
section as if included at length herein.
(2003 Code, § 6-309)
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 92.15 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his or her animal to run at
large if such animal is reported, in writing, as creating a public nuisance
and, upon investigation, the reports are determined to be supported by the
evidence. In such cases, and only in such cases, the owner must keep the animal
that has been found to be creating the public nuisance on his or her own
property at all times unless the animal is under restraint or control of a
competent person or on or within a secure enclosure.
(2003 Code, § 6-300) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce, or dangerous
animal within the town unless it is confined within a secure building or
enclosure, or unless it is secured by muzzle and under restraint by a competent
person, who by means of a leash, chain, or rope, has such animal firmly under
control at all times.
(2003 Code, § 6-301) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 TEASING AND MOLESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait, or any way
bother any animal not belonging to him or her or legally under his or her
control.
(2003 Code, § 6-302) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 INJURING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring an animal or running over or
coming in contact with the same with automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, or other
vehicle to fail to notify immediately the owner of said animal or the Police
Department.
(2003 Code, § 6-303) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate, or kill, wound,
injure, poison, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or
general welfare any animal.
(2003 Code, § 6-304) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 IMPOUNDING ANIMALS.
   Any animal, which appears to be lost, strayed, or
unwanted, shall be confined in the facility provided by the county in a humane
manner for redemption by the owner.
(2003 Code, § 6-305)
§ 92.21 COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Police Department of the town is hereby authorized to seek the aid or
assistance of the county animal control officer in the enforcement of any
provision of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 6-306)
§ 92.22 INVALIDATION OF ANY SELECTION.
   Invalidation of any section of this chapter shall not render invalid the
remaining sections and, to that end, the provisions of this chapter are
severable.
(2003 Code, § 6-307)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days or
both. Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
This in no way limits or prevents the enforcement of this chapter by injunction
or restraining order in a court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise as by
law may be provided.
(2003 Code, § 6-308)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Lakes/Perennial Waters
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Pollution prohibited
   
93.03   Bathing and swimming prohibited
   
93.04   Fishing and boating; permit required
   
93.05   Trespassing prohibited
   
93.06   Firing of guns, pistols, or fireworks prohibited
   
93.07   Plowing or cultivating on bank of creek prohibited
   
93.08   Proximity of highways restricted
   
93.09   Picnicking and camping restricted
   
93.10   Hog wallows not permitted
   
93.11   Compost or manure not to be spread
   
93.12   Location of stock pens
   
93.13   No urine slops or wash water to be deposited
   
93.14   Burial of human excrement
   
93.15   Dwellings to be provided with sanitary facilities
   
93.16   Carcass of dead animal or offal not to be deposited on watershed
   
93.17   No burial ground within 500 feet of stream
   
93.18   State Board of Health to provide rules for construction camps
   
93.19   Parks to be patrolled
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 113-127 et seq., 160A-350 et seq., and 136-
16 et seq.
LAKES/PERENNIAL WATERS
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LAKE. Each and every lake owned or controlled by the town, whether or not
such lake or perennial waters shall be or constitute a portion of the watershed
of the town. Perennial waters are defined in Section 5.5 of the Zoning
Ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 14-100)
§ 93.02 POLLUTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act that will affect the
purity of the water in any lake.
(2003 Code, § 14-200) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 BATHING AND SWIMMING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe or swim in any lake.
(2003 Code, § 14-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 FISHING AND BOATING; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fish or boat in any lake
without having, in his or her possession, a valid permit from the town
authorizing game.
   (B)   Even with such a permit, no boat with an internal combustion engine
shall be permitted on any lake; and any person using such a boat on any lake as
defined herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2003 Code, § 14-202) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an official or employee of
the town to enter upon, or otherwise trespass on, the premises of the town
filtering plant, pumping station, reservoir, or adjoining town property,
without the permission of the Mayor or the Board of Commissioners of the town.
(2003 Code, § 14-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 FIRING OF GUNS, PISTOLS, OR FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fire a gun, pistol, or fireworks from any boat on a lake or
the shores of a lake.
(2003 Code, § 14-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 PLOWING OR CULTIVATING ON BANK OF CREEK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No plowing, cultivating, or pasturing shall be permitted within 50
feet of a lake.
   (B)   Such margin shall be kept free from briar or thicket growth, but tree
and shrubbery growth may be cultivated thereon, under proper conditions for
conserving the purity of the water.
(2003 Code, § 14-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PROXIMITY OF HIGHWAYS RESTRICTED.
   No public highway or railroad shall be established within 20 feet of the
margin of a lake.
(2003 Code, § 14-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.09 PICNICKING AND CAMPING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No picnicking or camping shall be permitted on the watershed except
with adequate provisions for the disposal of excreta, approved by the state’s
Board of Health, and use of the same rigidly regulated to prevent pollution of
the watershed area.
   (B)   All trash and rubbish shall be kept collected in containers and shall
be burned or removed from the watershed; provided that no camping or picnicking
whatsoever within 250 feet of the margin of a lake or its tributaries shall be
permitted within a distance of five miles from the waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.10 HOG WALLOWS NOT PERMITTED.
   The wallowing of hogs or other animals in and along the streams flowing into
a lake and similar abuses shall not be permitted within five miles of the water
supply intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-208) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.11 COMPOST OR MANURE NOT TO BE SPREAD.
   (A)   No spreading of any barnyard manure or compost shall be permitted
within 250 feet of the margin of a lake or any streams or tributaries thereto
without being plowed in or otherwise covered within ten hours after being
spread.
   (B)   This section shall apply only within a distance of five miles of the
waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-209) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.12 LOCATION OF STOCK PENS.
   (A)   No hog pen, cattle pen, horse or mule lot, poultry house, hitching or
standing place for horses or cattle, or any other place where animal manure
accumulates shall be maintained or used within 300 feet of a lake, its streams,
or tributaries.
   (B)   All such pens and lots shall be cleaned at least once a month and the
accumulated manure or other decaying matter disposed of in the barnyard manure
pile or compost heap, or it may be spread upon the land in a manner not in
conflict with §
93.11.
   (C)   This section shall apply within a distance of five miles of the
waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-210) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 NO URINE SLOPS OR WASH WATER TO BE DEPOSITED.
   (A)   No human excrement or urine shall be voided or deposited within a
distance of 100 feet from the margin of a lake, or tributaries thereto; nor
shall any water that has been used for washing clothing, bedding, carpets,
harness, persons, horses, cattle, or other animals; nor any garbage, house
slops, kitchen waste, or other forms of decaying, foul, noxious, or putrescent
matter, either solid or liquid, be thrown, spread, or otherwise deposited on
the surface of the ground within the 100-foot margin.
   (B)   No washing of clothing, bedding, or carpets shall be done within a
distance of 200 feet from the margin of a lake or the tributaries thereto.
(2003 Code, § 14-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.14 BURIAL OF HUMAN EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No collection of human excrement or urine shall be deposited in a
barnyard manure pile or compost heap, nor upon the surface of the ground within
the area of the watershed, nor shall such matter be otherwise deposited
thereon, except it be buried within at least one foot of cover.
   (B)   This section shall apply within a distance of 15 miles of the
waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-212) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.15 DWELLINGS TO BE PROVIDED WITH SANITARY FACILITIES.
   No dwelling house, or other place where persons may reside, congregate, or
may be employed, shall be built or maintained on the watershed without being
provided with a sanitary system or privy for the disposal of sewage,
constructed and maintained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
state’s Board of Health.
(2003 Code, § 14-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 CARCASS OF DEAD ANIMAL OR OFFAL NOT TO BE DEPOSITED ON WATERSHED.
   (A)   No carcass of any dead animal or animal offal shall be thrown into a
lake nor deposited upon the surface within the area of the watershed nor shall
any such carcass be permitted by the owner of the land where found to remain
unburied for a period exceeding ten hours after being known to, found by, or
reported to such owner.
   (B)   Such carcass shall be buried with not less than two feet of cover at a
point distant from any of said streams or tributaries of a lake not less than
500 feet; except in cases where a carcass may be found that had been decomposed
to such extent as to prevent its removal, when it may be buried near the place
found, but distant not less than 50 feet from any stream or tributary.
(2003 Code, § 14-214) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 NO BURIAL GROUND WITHIN 500 FEET OF STREAM.
   No burial ground shall be established within 500 feet from the main streams
nor a ten-mile limit from the point of intake of a lake.
(2003 Code, § 14-215) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18 STATE BOARD OF HEALTH TO PROVIDE RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION CAMPS.
   (A)   No construction camps for railroad or highway building shall be
established or maintained within the area of the watershed, nor shall any
number or group or laborers be employed on such construction or in lumbering or
similar operations within the watershed area, without giving advance notice
thereof to the Mayor and to the Secretary of the state’s Board of Health, who
will prescribe rules and regulations to govern the conduct of such work
pertaining to the sanitary protection of the water supply during such
operations.
   (B)   This section shall apply within a distance of 20 miles of the
waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-216) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 PARKS TO BE PATROLLED.
   No parks or other places of resort for the use and entertainment of the
public shall be established or maintained on the watershed except upon
condition that provisions shall be made for the collection of sewage and
garbage and its disposal, to be approved by the state’s Board of Health, and
that the park and its environment shall be effectively patrolled at all hours
when such park is open and, in general use, to secure the observance and
enforcement of all the adjacent streams or tributaries; provided that no other
parks or other places of resort whatsoever for the use and entertainment of the
public shall be established or maintained within 250 feet of the margin of the
reservoirs or tributaries of a lake or shall be permitted within a distance of
five miles from that waterworks intake.
(2003 Code, § 14-217) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Open burning
   
94.02   Burning of trash and refuse
Fire Department Regulations
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Jurisdiction of Fire Department
   
94.17   False fire alarm prohibited
   
94.18   Summons of aid during fire fighting
   
94.19   Fire guard
   
94.20   Obstruction of firefighters in discharge of duties
   
94.21   When traffic may be restricted
   
94.22   Unauthorized riding of apparatus
   
94.23   Right of entry
   
94.24   Notice of fire hazard; issuance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OPEN BURNING.
   No open burning of trash, rubbish, or other combustible material shall be
permitted within the town during such periods as the same may be prohibited in
the county by the state’s Forest Service.
(2003 Code, § 12-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 130A, §§ 130A-34 et seq., 160A-174, and
160A-193
§ 94.02 BURNING OF TRASH AND REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn upon any of the public streets
either from stores or private residences any papers, boxes, rash, or refuse
matter of any kind.
(2003 Code, § 11-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see G.S. § 160A-193
FIRE DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALL FOR MUTUAL ASSISTANCE. A call from a public officer of a duly organized
Fire Department, municipality, and/or forest service for assistance in
combating a fire.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Board of Commissioners of the town.
   MUNICIPAL AREA. The area within the incorporated boundaries of the town.
   PRIMARY FIRE LIMITS. Those areas zoned as business within the municipal area
and zoned area of the town and the structures located thereon.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority, Zoning Board, or any officer who is
in charge of a department or branch of government of the town relating to
health, fire safety, building regulations, or to other activities concerning
dwellings in the municipal and zoned area of the town.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances
adopted to exercise the powers prescribed by such ordinances.
   STRUCTURE. Any building erected for the purpose of housing of humans and/or
the purposes of business including outhouses and appurtenances belonging
thereto.
   ZONED AREA. The three-mile area outside the corporate limits of the town
zoned by act of the General Assembly.
(2003 Code, § 8-100)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§  14-136 et seq., 14-283, 14-410 et seq., 20-
162(b) Ch. 58 Art. 78 et seq., Ch. 69, §§ 160A-76(b), 160A-163, 160A-183, 160A-
291 et seq.,
§ 94.16 JURISDICTION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Top priority shall be given to protection of property within the
municipal area and zoned area, provided, however, that, in the case of the
zoned area, the top priority shall not be applicable when the governing body
has not approved installation of water lines and fire hydrants of sufficient
capacity to make the use of pumper vehicles possible.
(2003 Code, § 8-200.1)
   (B)   Dispatching of firefighting equipment beyond municipal and zoned area
shall be permitted provided that the Chief or Assistant Chief ascertains
sufficient equipment and personnel is left behind to provide protection for
municipal area; and the distance to fire one way does not exceed five miles
provided, however, in case of a call for mutual assistance, this mileage
limitation may be waived so long as above is complied with.
(2003 Code, § 8-200.2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 58-83.1 and 160A-293
§ 94.17 FALSE FIRE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully give or cause to be given a
false alarm of fire by ringing any bell or shouting or otherwise.
(2003 Code, § 8-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 4-286
§ 94.18 SUMMONS OF AID DURING FIRE FIGHTING.
   During the continuance of any fire, the Chief of the Fire Department, his or
her assistant, or the Mayor shall have power to call on any and all able-bodied
persons to assist in extinguishing the same, or in pulling down or blowing up
any building, if in his or her opinion, it is absolutely necessary; or in
removing any goods, wares, and merchandise from said burning building in danger
of fire to some place of safety.
(2003 Code, § 8-202)
§ 94.19 FIRE GUARD.
   In case of fire, it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Chief of Police to
attend and take charge of the Police Department. In case of the removal of
exposed property, they shall detail a sufficient number of responsible citizens
who are not members of the Fire Department, who shall constitute an auxiliary
police force, whose duty it shall be, under the direction of the officers in
charge, to guard and protect all property exposed and to arrest and detain all
suspicious and disorderly persons and to do everything that may be done
lawfully to protect the rights of citizens and preserve public peace and
private property.
(2003 Code, § 8-203)
§ 94.20 OBSTRUCTION OF FIREFIGHTERS IN DISCHARGE OF DUTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with a firefighter in the
discharge of his or her duty in such a way as to hinder him or her in the
performance of the same, or to change, handle, or meddle with any of the fire
apparatus while in use or in possession of the Fire Department.
(2003 Code, § 8-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-157
§ 94.21 WHEN TRAFFIC MAY BE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after being forbidden by any officer of
the town, to ride or drive a vehicle through any street, alley, or square on
which the Fire Department is assembled for practice or active service during
the progress of a fire.
(2003 Code, § 8-205) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING OF APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not a bona fide member of the Fire
Department to mount any fire apparatus or wagon before it leaves the station or
while on its way to or from a fire, or at any time unless by permission of the
Chief of the Fire Department or officer in charge of said fire wagon or engine;
provided that this section shall not apply to any police officer of the town
whose duty it is to preserve property and keep the peace at the scene of a
fire.
(2003 Code, § 8-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, and any member of the Fire Department when
so directed by the Chief, shall have the right to enter any building or
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making any inspection
provided for by this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 8-207)
§ 94.24 NOTICE OF FIRE HAZARD; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall find that any building
or any premises constitutes a fire hazard, for any reason, he or she shall
serve or cause to be served upon the owner or the occupant of such building a
written notice specifying the condition complained of, ordering the same to be
remedied promptly, and indicating what is considered a reasonable time for
compliance with such order.
(2003 Code, § 8-208)
   (B)   The service of any notice of a fire hazard may be made upon the
occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of
the same to such occupant personally or by delivering the same to and leaving
it with any person in charge of such premises, or, in case that any such
persons is not found upon such premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of such premises. In case the
owner of such premises is some person other than the occupant thereof, service
of such notice may be made by delivering a copy of such notice to such owner
personally or by mailing such copy to his or her last know address. If the
occupant or owner is a partnership, service upon any partner shall be
sufficient; and if a corporation, upon any officer or any local agent thereof.
(2003 Code, § 8-209)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant or any owner of any such
building or premises to fail to comply with the requirements of a notice of a
fire hazard within a reasonable time after the service thereof.
(2003 Code, § 8-210)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Administration
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated
   
95.06   Junked motor vehicle removal authorized
   
95.07   Concealment of one junked motor vehicle
   
95.08   Concealment of more than one junked vehicle
   
95.09   Removal; pre-towing notice requirements
   
95.10   Exception to notice requirement
   
95.11   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirement
   
95.12   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final discomposition of
vehicle
   
95.13   Redemption of vehicle during procedures
   
95.14   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.15   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
95.16   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
95.17   Exceptions
   
95.18   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicles
§ 95.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Chief and Town Manager shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public
streets and highways within the town and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager and Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be responsible
for administering the removal and disposition of “abandoned,” “nuisance,” or
“junked motor vehicles” located on private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be constructed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the town’s Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(2003 Code, § 13-100)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that is:
(2003 Code, § 13-100.1)
      (1)   Left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.11)
      (2)   Left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.12)
      (3)   Left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24
hours; or
(2003 Code, § 13-100.13)
      (4)   Left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
(2003 Code, § 13-100.14)
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department,
Town Manager, or Zoning Enforcement Officer, respectively, designated to
authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 13-100.2)
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
(2003 Code, § 13-100.4)
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.41)
      (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
(2003 Code, § 13-100.42)
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
(2003 Code, § 13-100.43)
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled VEHICLE.
(2003 Code, § 13-100.3)
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
(2003 Code, § 13-100.5)
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.51)
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or the noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.52)
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.53)
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.54)
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.55)
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.56)
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
(2003 Code, § 13-100.57)
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
(2003 Code, § 13-100.58)
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health or safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 13-100.59)
§ 95.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
(2003 Code, § 13-101.1)
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(2003 Code, § 13-101.2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow that vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
(2003 Code, § 13-102.1)
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager or Zoning Enforcement Officer may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a
nuisance vehicle, as defined in §
95.02 and order the vehicle removed.
(2003 Code, § 13-102.2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicles must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Subject to the provision of §
110.01, upon investigation, the Town Manager or Zoning Enforcement Officer may
order the removal of a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this chapter, after
finding, in writing, that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle
outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall
be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the
corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community,
neighborhood, or area appearance.
   (B)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
(2003 Code, § 13-201.4)
      (1)   Protection of property values;
(2003 Code, § 13-201.41)
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
(2003 Code, § 13-201.42)
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
(2003 Code, § 13-201.43)
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
(2003 Code, § 13-201.44)
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.45)
§ 95.07 CONCEALMENT OF ONE JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the rear
yard, as defined by the town’s Zoning Ordinance, if the junked motor vehicle is
entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering.
   (B)   The Town Manager or Zoning Enforcement Officer has the authority to
determine whether any junked vehicle is adequately concealed as required by
this section. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed
to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the
objectives stated in the preamble of the ordinance incorporated in this
chapter.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 CONCEALMENT OF MORE THAN ONE JUNKED VEHICLE.
   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or building
structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle
(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property. A garage or
building structure means either a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or
building structure erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit
and which has been constructed in accordance with all zoning and Building Code
regulations.
(2003 Code, § 13-201.52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 REMOVAL; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as set forth in §
95.10, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked vehicle, which is to be removed, shall
be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or the person entitled to
the possession of the vehicle or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail.
      (3)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed and the date mailed. If such
names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner then seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles or private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle, or, in the case of a junked motor vehicle, that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal
shall be made to the Board of Commissioners, in writing, heard at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and further
proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and
decided.
(2003 Code, § 13-300)
§ 95.10 EXCEPTION TO NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
(2003 Code, § 13-301)
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determines that
immediate removal of such vehicle may be warranted when they are:
(2003 Code, § 13-303.1)
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
(2003 Code, § 13-303.11)
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
(2003 Code, § 13-303.12)
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
(2003 Code, § 13-303.13)
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
(2003 Code, § 13-303.14)
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
(2003 Code, § 13-303.15)
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
(2003 Code, § 13-303.16)
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and, on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(2003 Code, § 13-303.2)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.11 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST- TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such
services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
(2003 Code, § 13-304)
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
(2003 Code, § 13-304.1)
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
(2003 Code, § 13-304.2)
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
(2003 Code, § 13-304.3)
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
(2003 Code, § 13-304.4)
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone. However, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived, in writing, by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above.
(2003 Code, § 13-304.5)
§ 95.12 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISCOMPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled
to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for
removing the vehicle.
   (B)   A request for hearing must be filed, in writing, with the county
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
request. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(2003 Code, § 13-305)
§ 95.13 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   At any state in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 13-306)
§ 95.14 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination
with the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. I.
(2003 Code, § 13-307)
§ 95.15 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Manager or Zoning Enforcement Officer. The town may require any person
requesting the removal of an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from
private property to indemnify the town against any loss, expense, or liability
incurred because of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(2003 Code, § 13-308)
§ 95.16 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 13-309)
§ 95.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD or JUNKYARD, as defined in
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(2003 Code, § 13-310)
§ 95.18 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(2003 Code, § 13-311) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND PANHANDLING
      
112.   SECONDHAND GOODS
      
113.   LIQUOR OPERATIONS
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
115.   TAXICABS
      
116.   SOCIAL DISTRICT
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of ordinance
   
110.03   Continuing authority of Board of Commissioners
   
110.04   Levy of tax
   
110.05   Who must pay tax
   
110.06   Period of license; due date
   
110.07   Proration of tax
   
110.08   Refunds
   
110.09   Separate businesses
   
110.10   Separate locations
   
110.11   Exemptions
Regulations
   
110.25   Application
   
110.26   Issuance of license certificate
   
110.27   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license
   
110.28   Unqualified applications; right to a conference
   
110.29   Tax collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.30   Amount if tax disputed
   
110.31   Revocation
   
110.32   Form and contents of license
   
110.33   Assignments
   
110.34   Changes in business conducted by licensee during the tax year
   
110.35   Tax collector to furnish duplicates
   
110.36   Record of conferences
   
110.37   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
   
110.38   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
110.39   Tax collector to investigate
   
110.40   Duty to keep books
   
110.41   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.42   Duty to post license
   
110.43   Notice of deficiency
   
110.44   Request for a conference
   
110.45   Deficiency to become final
   
110.46   Conference held
   
110.47   Collection of deficiency
   
110.48   Enforcement of ordinance
   
110.49   Business of profession not in schedule
   
110.50   License tax schedule
Non-Discrimination in Places of Public Accommodations and in Employment
   
110.60   Applicability
   
110.61   Discrimination in places of public accommodations prohibited
   
110.62   Discrimination in employment prohibited
   
110.63   Severance; conflict with state or federal law
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise taxed under this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-100.2)
   EMPLOYER. Any person employing one or more persons and any person acting in
the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly.
   GENDER IDENTITY or GENDER EXPRESSION. Having or being perceived as having
gender related identity, expression, appearance, or behavior, whether or not
that identity, expression, appearance, or behavior is different from that
traditionally associated with the sex assigned to that individual at birth.
   PERSONS. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
(2003 Code, § 15-100.1)
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any place, facility, store, other
establishment, hotel, or motel, which supplies goods, services, or
accommodations on the premises to the public or which solicits or accepts the
patronage or trade of any person.
   PREGNANCY. Pregnancy, childbirth, or any medical condition related to
pregnancy or childbirth.
   SEASONAL. A business is SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted for profit
six months out of the year or less.
(2003 Code, § 15-100.3)
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF ORDINANCE.
   This chapter is enacted for revenue purposes only. Therefore, it should be
constructed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted under its terms. In
addition, issuance of a license in accordance with this chapter does not excuse
a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This
chapter does not prevent the Board of Commissioners from imposing license taxes
on additional businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of any
license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed.
(2003 Code, § 15-101)
§ 110.03 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   Nothing contained within this chapter shall be constructed to prevent the
Board of Commissioners from imposing, from time to time, such other license
taxes as are not specifically herein defined or required, or from increasing or
decreasing the amount of any special license tax, or from prohibiting or
regulating the business or acts licensed.
(2003 Code, § 15-102)
§ 110.04 LEVY OF TAX.
   An annual privilege license tax is hereby levied on each business conducted
within this town listed in §§
110.01 through
110.11 and
110.25 through
110.50 in the amounts set forth in those sections.
(2003 Code, § 15-103)
§ 110.05 WHO MUST PAY TAX.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a business within this town is subject to
this chapter. A person “conducts business” when he or she engages in one act of
business taxed under this chapter.
   (B)   He or she conducts the business “within the town” if he or she
maintains a business location within the town, or, if either personally or
through agents, he or she:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town limits; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the town limits.
(2003 Code, § 15-104)
§ 110.06 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual licenses. Unless the section of this chapter levying the
privilege license tax applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a
license issued in accordance with this chapter is good for the 12-month period
beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The tax is due July 1 of each year.
However, if a person begins a business after July 1 of a year, the tax for that
year is due before the business is begun.
(2003 Code, § 15-105.1)
   (B)   Licenses for periods shorter than one year. If the section of this
chapter levying the privileges license tax applicable to a particular business
so provides, a license may be issued for a period of one day, one week, or some
comparable period of less than a full license year. A person may not commence a
business conducted within the town and taxes under such a provision until the
privilege license tax is paid and may not continue such a business beyond the
period for which the license is issued. For the purposes of this section, the
opening of a place of business, or offering to sell, followed by a single sale
or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance of the business; and each day
that person shall engage in or carry on such business shall be constructed to
be a separate offense.
(2003 Code, § 15-105.2)
§ 110.07 PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after January 31 and before July 1, the amount of tax
due is half the amount otherwise due. If a business is seasonal in nature and
if the amount of tax is not based on gross receipts, the amount of tax due is
half the amount otherwise due.
(2003 Code, § 15-106)
§ 110.08 REFUNDS.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(2003 Code, § 15-107)
§ 110.09 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate license is required and a separate privilege license tax must be
paid for each place of business unless two or more places of business under
common ownership are contiguous to each other, communicate directly with and
open into each other, and are operated as a unit. In addition, a separate
privilege license tax must be paid for each business taxable under this chapter
conducted by the taxpayer at any one location; however, the tax collector may
issue a single license for all taxable business conducted at one location by a
single taxpayer.
(2003 Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 SEPARATE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only
valid for the business conducted at the place and by the license named therein.
   (B)   Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse,
store, stall, or stand or other place of business shall secure a separate
license for each such place of business, unless such places of business are
contiguous to each other, communicate directly with and open into each other,
and are operated as a unit. Businesses at two or more locations, said
businesses shall be taxed as a single unit if:
(2003 Code, § 15-110)
      (1)   The type of business conducted or products sold at each location is
dissimilar in nature from the business conducted or products sold at each other
location; and
(2003 Code, § 15-110.1)
      (2)   The businesses are operated as a single unit by the same license.
(2003 Code, § 15-110.2)
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from payment of a privilege license tax levied by this
chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-111.1)
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable, or fraternal purpose when
the entire gross income of the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-111.2)
   (C)   Blind persons and members of the Armed Forces and Merchant Marine.
Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States Armed Forces or the
Merchant Marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-111.3)
   (D)   Must obtain license. A person exempt from paying a privilege license
tax levied by this subchapter shall nevertheless obtain a license from the tax
collector. The license shall state that the license is exempt from paying the
privilege license tax.
(2003 Code, § 15-111.4)
REGULATIONS
§ 110.25 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the tax collector for each license required by
this subchapter no less than 30 days before the date tax is due.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the tax
collector, shall contain:
(2003 Code, § 15-200)
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an
individual, a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity;
(2003 Code, § 15-200.1)
      (2)   The nature of the business;
(2003 Code, § 15-200.2)
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
(2003 Code, § 15-200.3)
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to, as
required by this chapter;
(2003 Code, § 15-200.4)
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B, and, if so, the serial number of the state
license the applicant currently holds; and
(2003 Code, § 15-200.5)
      (6)   Any other information the tax collector determines to be necessary
to compute the amount of tax due.
(2003 Code, § 15-200.6)
§ 110.26 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon the approval of the application for a license, the receipt of the
required license tax and the compliance with other provisions of this code,
state law, or town rules, regulations, or ordinance, if required, the town tax
collector shall issue the license. The collector shall not issue any license
when the application therefor is refused by the Board of Commissioners or any
board or official, in cases where the approval of such bodies is required
precedent to the issuance of the license.
   (B)   Every license issued shall show, on the face thereof, the name of the
license, the nature of the business, the location of the business if it is
operated at a fixed location, the period for which the license is issued, and
the amount of the tax and penalty, if any, paid; provided, however, that taxes
paid on the merchant’s gross sales tax shall not be shown on the face of such
license certificate.
   (C)   Any license requiring the approval of the Board of Commissioners or
any board, commission, or official shall show such approval on the face
thereof.
(2003 Code, § 15-201)
§ 110.27 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The tax collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons.
(2003 Code, § 15-202)
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license.
(2003 Code, § 15-202.1)
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due.
(2003 Code, § 15-202.2)
§ 110.28 UNQUALIFIED APPLICATIONS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.27, the tax collector shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall
not issue the license. At the applicant’s request, the tax collector shall, in
accordance with §
110.37, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license. The applicant may, within ten days after the day the statement is
received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the request, the
applicant shall specify why the application for a license should not be
refused. The tax collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   Appeals to the tax collector’s decision after a conference is referred
to the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   If the collector refuses to issues a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in
compliance with §
110.29.
(2003 Code, § 15-203)
§ 110.29 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
110.25, the tax collector shall determine the amount of tax due and notify the
applicant of that amount. The tax collector shall not issue a license until the
tax is paid.
(2003 Code, § 15-204)
§ 110.30 AMOUNT IF TAX DISPUTED.
   If disputes arise over the amount the tax collector determines to be due,
the applicant may either refuse to pay and request a conference with the tax
collector to discuss the determination or pay the amount and request a
conference to discuss the right to a refund. If a conference is requested, the
tax collector shall arrange it within a reasonable time.
(2003 Code, § 15-205)
§ 110.31 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The tax collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
110.27. Before revoking a license, the tax collector shall give the license
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
110.27.
   (B)   The license may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference with the tax collector in writing. The request
shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The tax
collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (C)   If the license fails to request a conference within ten days after the
day on which notice is served, the tax collector shall revoke the license. If
the licensee requests a conference, the tax collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (D)   If the tax collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and of no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license in accordance with §
110.07.
(2003 Code, § 15-206)
§ 110.32 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature of
the business licensed, the period for which the license is issued, and the
amount of tax paid. In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall
show the serial number of the machine. The tax collector shall keep a copy of
each license issued.
(2003 Code, § 15-207)
§ 110.33 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to be reported to the tax collector in accordance
with §
110.34.
   (B)   Otherwise, each license issued under this subchapter is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(2003 Code, § 15-208)
§ 110.34 CHANGES IN BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING THE TAX YEAR.
   (A)   Changes in business conducted by licensee during the tax year.
      (1)   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the information
contained in the license application to the tax collector within ten days after
the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the license itself is affected, the
licensee or assignee shall surrender the license to the tax collector when
reporting the change.
(2003 Code, § 15-209)
   (B)   Changes affecting the amount of tax due. If there are reasons for
revoking the license under §
110.27 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
(2003 Code, § 15-209.1)
   (C)   Changes not affecting the amount of tax due. If there are no reasons
for revoking the license under §
110.27 and the changes do not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the
changes upon payment of a fee of $10.
(2003 Code, § 15-209.2)
   (D)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
110.27, the tax collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with §
110.07.
(2003 Code, § 15-209.3)
§ 110.35 TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the tax
collector shall furnish a duplicate for fee of $5.
(2003 Code, § 15-210)
§ 110.36 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   (A)   The tax collector shall maintain for three years a record of each
conference held in accordance with this subchapter. The record shall contain
the applicant’s or licensee’s name, the date of the conference, and a brief
statement of the issues discussed and the result reached.
   (B)   After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record in
accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(2003 Code, § 15-211)
§ 110.37 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this subchapter requires the tax collector to give a written
statement or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the tax collector may do so
in one of three ways:   
(2003 Code, § 15-212)
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
(2003 Code, § 15-212.1)
   (B)   By mailing that statement or notice by registered or certified mail
and returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose
in the license application; or
(2003 Code, § 15-212.2)
   (C)   By causing that statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(2003 Code, § 15-212.3)
§ 110.38 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this subchapter and, if so, whether that tax has been
paid for the current tax year.
(2003 Code, § 15-213)
§ 110.39 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the tax collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this subchapter, the tax collector shall
conduct an investigation to determine the person’s tax liability.
(2003 Code, § 15-214)
§ 110.40 DUTY TO KEEP BOOKS.
   (A)   Each person who conducts a business taxed under this chapter shall
keep all records and books necessary to compute the tax liability.
   (B)   If a person fails to keep books and records as required, the tax
collector shall make a determination of that person’s tax liability from the
information available.
(2003 Code, § 15-215) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.41 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the town shall permit the tax collector
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there and to examine the books and records to
determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(2003 Code, § 15-216) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.42 DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the
place of business licensed.
   (B)   If the licensee has no regular place of business, that license must be
kept where it may be inspected at all time by the proper town officials.
   (C)   If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine.
(2003 Code, § 15-217) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.43 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If the tax collector determines that a person has not paid the full
amount of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or
for a prior license year, the tax collector shall give the person written
notice of the deficiency, in accordance with §
110.37.
   (B)   The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due;
the section of this chapter upon which the tax is based; the amount of tax
paid; any interest due; the balance owed; the manner and time period in which
the person may respond to the failing to respond as specified.
(2003 Code, § 15-218)
§ 110.44 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request a conference in writing. The request shall specify the person’s
objection to the notice of deficiency.
   (B)   By way of illustration but not limitation, a person who receives
notice of a deficiency may object on the following grounds.
(2003 Code, § 15-219)
      (1)   The tax collector has already been paid.
(2003 Code, § 15-219.1)
      (2)   The tax collector miscalculated the amount of tax due.
(2003 Code, § 15-219.2)
      (3)   The tax collector based his or her calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or the amount of business
conducted.
(2003 Code, § 15-219.3)
      (4)   The tax collector based the determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this chapter that establishes a category of
business subject to a particular tax.
(2003 Code, § 15-219.4)
§ 110.45 DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
110.44, the deficiency becomes final and the tax collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(2003 Code, § 15-220)
§ 110.46 CONFERENCE HELD.
   (A)   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the tax collector shall not
proceed to collect the deficiency until hearing the taxpayer’s objections and
determining that the deficiency should become final.
   (B)   The tax collector shall maintain a record of each conference held for
three years, in accordance with §
110.44. The record shall contain the name of the issues discussed and the
results of the discussion.
   (C)   After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record in
compliance with G.S. § 121-5.
(2003 Code, § 15-221)
§ 110.47 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The tax collector may use any of the following methods to collect tax
deficiency:
(2003 Code, § 15-222.1)
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
110.48(A);
(2003 Code, § 15-222.2)
      (2)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
110.48(B);
(2003 Code, § 15-222.3)
      (3)   The remedies of levy, sale, attachment, and garnishment accordance
with G.S. § 160A-207; or
(2003 Code, § 15-222.4)
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the town in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax
of 5% every 30 days as imposed by G.S. § 105-109.
(2003 Code, § 15-222.5)
§ 110.48 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within the town without having
paid the privilege license tax imposed by this chapter, or without a valid
privilege license issued in accordance with this chapter, or without posting a
license in compliance with §
110.42 is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 105-109. Each day
that a person conducts business in violation of this chapter is a separate
offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings in accordance with
this section does not relieve a person of a liability for taxes imposed under
this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-223.1)
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
division (A) above and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town may seek
an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of this
chapter.
(2003 Code, § 15-223.2)
§ 110.49 BUSINESS OR PROFESSION NOT IN SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Every persons carrying on any business, trade, vocation, or profession
not enumerated in §
110.50 shall be required to pay the maximum annual license tax permitted under
the state revenue act to be charged by cities and towns for carrying on such
business, trade, vocation, or profession (general business license tax).
(2003 Code, § 15-225)
   (B)   All persons and entities engaged in the business of an electronic
gaming operation within the town shall pay an annual privilege license tax in
the amount of $300 plus $150 per electronic gaming machine.
(Ord. 0-12-12, passed 5-14-2012)
§ 110.50 LICENSE TAX SCHEDULE.
   On the following trades, occupations, professions, agencies, business
operations, and other subjects herein set out, the following taxes shall be
levied and collected:
Advertising/billboards                        Not allowed
Amusements/carnival                           $25
Beer - off premises                           $5
Beer - on premises                            $15
Wine - off premises                           $10
Wine - on premises                            $15
Per day exhibition at each location
Amusements/general                            $25
Amusements/theaters                           $100
Auto dealers                                  $25
Auto dealers (seasonal, temporary)            $300
Auto parts                                    $25
Auto service stations                         $12.50
Auto repair                                   $12.50
Barber/beauty shop                            $2.50/operator
Bicycle dealers                               $25
Billiard/pool tables                          $25
Branch/chain stores                           $50
Campgrounds/trailer parks                     $12.50
Check cashing                                 $100
Collection agents                             $50
Contractors/construction company              $10
Dry cleaning plants                           $25
Electricians                                  $25
Employment/emigrant agents                    $100
Firearms/guns                                 $50
Knives/weapons                                $200**
General business (anything not listed)        $25
Gypsies; fortunetellers                       Not allowed in the county
Heating contractors                           $25
Hotel/motel-$1 Room - $15 min.                $25
Installing elevator and sprinkler systems     $100
Knives/daggers, and the like dealer           $200**
Laundries/launderettes                        $50
Loan agencies                                 $100
Manufacturing                                 $50
Merchant - retail sales                       $25
Motorcycle dealers                            $12.50
Music video machines                          $5
Newspapers                                    $25
Packinghouses - meat                          $100**
Pawnbrokers                                   $100**
Peddler/flea market/specialty market operator $200**
Peddler/itinerant merchant - no vehicle       $100
Peddler - on feet                             $10
Peddler - produce                             $25
Peddler - vehicle                             $25
Pinball machine and similar amusements        $25
Pistols and the like dealers                  $50**
Plumbers                                      $25
Pool tables                                   $25
Restaurants - more than 4 seats               $85
Restaurants - less than 5 seats               $25
Security dealers/stockbrokers                 $50
Sundries                                      $4
Taxicab                                       $15
Undertaker/coffin retailers                   $50
Video movies/rental or sale                   $25
** Denotes that before a license can be issued, it has to be approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
 
(2003 Code, § 15-225)
NON-DISCRIMINATION IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND IN EMPLOYMENT
§ 110.60 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be applicable to any and all parts of the town located
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021)
§ 110.61 DISCRIMINATION IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a place of public accommodation to
deny the full enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, or
privileges thereof on the basis of race, natural hair or hairstyles, ethnicity,
creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression,
national origin, national ancestry, marital status, familial status, pregnancy,
veteran status, religion, religious belief or non-belief, age, or disability.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.62 DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any employer, because of the race, natural hair or
hairstyles, ethnicity, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, national origin, national ancestry, marital status, familial
status, pregnancy, veteran status, religion, religious belief or non-belief,
age, or disability of any person, to refuse to hire or otherwise discriminate
against that person with respect to hire, tenure, conditions or privileges of
employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.63 SEVERANCE; CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   If the provisions of this subchapter conflict with any right or privilege of
an employer or person who provides a public accommodation that is established
or recognized by state or federal law, or the state or federal constitution,
that right or privilege shall prevail over the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each license tax prescribed by this chapter shall be increased 5% for
each month or fraction thereof during which such license tax remains unpaid
after the same becomes due and payable; provided, however, such penalty shall
not be less than any minimum nor more than any maximum penalty established by
state law. No license shall be issued until the license tax plus the penalty
has been paid. The addition of the 5% per monthly penalty on the amount of the
license tax shall not exempt the delinquent from the penalties herein
prescribed for failure to obtain a license or any other applicable violation of
the provision of the code, state law, or town regulations, rules, or ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 15-108)
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
110.60 through
110.62 may be subject to an enforcement action brought by the town under G.S.
§§ 160A-175(d) and (e) for an appropriate equitable remedy, including, but not
limited to, a mandatory or prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to
correct the conduct prohibited under §§
110.60 through
110.62. A violation of §§
110.60 through
110.62 shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction. Sections §§
110.60 through
110.62 are not intended to limit the remedies available to any person under
state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 9-13-2021)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND PANHANDLING
Section
Advertising
   
111.01   General restrictions
   
111.02   Sound vehicles restricted
   
111.03   Marking of streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
111.04   Compliance with zoning ordinance
Peddling/Soliciting Permit
   
111.15   Permit required
   
111.16   Application for permit
   
111.17   Investigation
   
111.18   Denial of permit
   
111.19   Prohibition in certain areas
   
111.20   Exceptions
Panhandling
   
111.35   Definitions
   
111.36   Intimidation prohibited
   
111.37   Prohibited near bank or financial institution
   
111.38   Impeding traffic prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
ADVERTISING
§ 111.01 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall advertise any goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind
for sale by crying out the same on the streets or sidewalks of the town. No
person shall advertise any goods, wares, or merchandise, or any event of any
kind, by crying out the same, or by using any megaphone, bell, horn, or other
noise-making device on any street or sidewalk; nor shall radios or loudspeakers
be operated in such a manner as to project sound outside the confines of the
building in which they may be located.
   (B)   Provided, however, that the acts prohibited in this section may be
permitted by special permission therefor from the Town Clerk or Chief of
Police.
(2003 Code, § 3-101) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 SOUND VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise any goods, wares, or
merchandise of any kind by the use of any amplifying equipment used by or
mounted on any vehicle, boat, or aircraft without first having obtained a
permit therefor from the Town Clerk of Chief of Police.
(2003 Code, § 3-102) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 MARKING OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, or attempt to advertise,
by marking or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks within the town.
(2003 Code, § 3-103) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Sign advertising must comply with provisions of Article VI of the Zoning
Ordinance of the town.
(2003 Code, Chapter 3, Article III)
PEDDLING/SOLICITING PERMIT
§ 111.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any person, directly or indirectly, peddles any type of merchandise,
or solicits money or donations of any kind within the town, he or she shall
first apply for and obtain a permit to engage in such solicitation from the
office of the Town Clerk.
(2003 Code, § 3-201) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit to peddle or solicit shall be sworn to and
addressed to the office of the Town Clerk, who shall have the authority to
require any or all of the following information:
(2003 Code, § 3-202)
   (A)   Name of organization applying for a permit and the address of its
headquarters;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.1)
   (B)   Names and addresses of its principal officers and management;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.2)
   (C)   The purpose for which such peddling or solicitation is to be made and
the use to be made of any receipts resulting therefrom;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.3)
   (D)   The name of the persons by whom the receipts of such peddling or
solicitation shall be disbursed;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.4)
   (E)   The name and address of the persons who will be in direct charge of
conducting the peddling or solicitation;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.5)
   (F)   An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the peddling or
solicitation;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.6)
   (G)   The time when such peddling or solicitation shall be made, giving the
preferred dates for the beginning and ending of such peddling or solicitation;
(2003 Code, § 3-202.7)
   (H)   A full statement of the character and extent of the work being done by
the applicant within the town and such other information as may be required by
the office of the Town Clerk to determine fully the kind and character of the
proposed peddling or solicitation and whether such peddling or solicitation is
in the general interest of the public; and/or
(2003 Code, § 3-202.8)
   (I)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted it will not be
used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the town.
(2003 Code, § 3-202.9)
§ 111.17 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application for a peddling or solicitation permit,
the office of the Town Clerk may make or cause to be made such investigation
deemed necessary to determine that the peddling or solicitation is in the
general interest of the public and that it is being conducted by responsible
and reliable persons.
   (B)   He or she shall then issue such permit. Such permit shall be
nontransferable and shall not run for more than the period stated on such
permit.
(2003 Code, § 3-203)
§ 111.18 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The Town Clerk upon denial of an application for a peddling or solicitation
permit shall make a written statement as to his or her reason for such denial.
(2003 Code, § 3-204)
§ 111.19 PROHIBITION IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person with or without a permit to peddle any
merchandise on the public streets, sidewalks, or parking areas on any street
lying within the area of one block in each direction from the stop light at the
intersection of Hillsboro and Salisbury Streets, and around the Courthouse
Square.
(2003 Code, § 3-205) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to mean that it shall be
unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without
charge to the receiver thereof, a non-commercial handbill to any person or
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
   (B)   Neither shall the provisions of this subchapter in any way affect the
usual and customary deliver of newspapers and periodicals.
(2003 Code, § 3-207)
PANHANDLING
§ 111.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOSTING ANOTHER PERSON. Approaching or speaking to someone in such a
manner as would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the
commission of a criminal act or damage to property in his or her immediate
possession.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.3)
   FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER PERSON.
      (1)   Continuing to request or solicit alms in close proximity to the
person addressed after that person has responded negatively;
      (2)   Blocking the passage of the person addressed; or
      (3)   Otherwise engaging in conduct which reasonably could be understood
as intended to force a person to accede to demands.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.5)
   INTIMIDATE ANOTHER PERSON. Acting in such a way as would cause a reasonable
person to fear bodily harm and, therefore, to do something he or she would not
otherwise have done.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.4)
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other public
property, as well as town-owned and town-controlled property and private
property open to the public unless permission to solicit has been obtained from
the town or from the private property owner or other person in authority.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.6)
   TO BEG, PANHANDLE, OR SOLICIT ALMS OR CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes, without
limitation, the spoken, written, or printed word or such other acts as are
conducted in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining alms or contributions.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.2)
§ 111.36 INTIMIDATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit alms or contributions in a public
place in a manner so as to intimidate another person or by accosting another
person, or by forcing oneself upon the company of another person.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.6(a)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 PROHIBITED NEAR BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit alms or contributions from
another person within 20 feet of an entrance or exit of any bank or financial
institution or within 20 feet of any automated teller machine.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.6(b)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 IMPEDING TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No person shall beg, panhandle, or solicit alms or contributions while
sitting or standing on a roadway or the shoulder or median of a roadway if such
action impedes the normal flow of traffic.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.6(c)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or any agent violating any of the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.04 and 111.15 through 111.20, or knowingly filing a false affidavit in
connection with the application provided in the foregoing sections shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2003 Code, § 3-206)
   (C)   Violation of §§
111.36 through
111.38 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to a fine
of not more than $50 or imprisonment for not more than seven days.
(2003 Code, § 26-100.6(d))
CHAPTER 112: SECONDHAND GOODS
Section
Junk Dealers
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Records required
   
112.04   Record retention
   
112.05   Enclosure required
   
112.06   Accessory buildings
   
112.07   Burning prohibited
   
112.08   Combustible materials
   
112.09   Wrecked, junked automobiles
   
112.10   Incorporation of Chatham County junkyard control ordinance
Garage/Yard Sales
   
112.25   Definition
   
112.26   Regulations
   
112.27   Coverage
 
   
112.99   Penalty
JUNK DEALERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any worn out, discarded, or old iron, other metal, automobile parts,
chain copper, parts of machinery, automobile tires, appliances, or old,
wrecked, or unusable automobiles and trucks; and other articles commonly known
as junk.
(2003 Code, § 11-401.1)
   JUNKYARD. Any area larger than 100 feet by 100 feet in which junk is stored
or permitted.
(2003 Code, § 11-401.2)
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who shall engage in the business of buying, selling,
handling, storing, or hauling junk shall first obtain a permit thereof.
(2003 Code, § 11-402)
   (B)   Application for a permit to engage in the junk business shall be made
to the Town Manager and shall state the place where the business is to be
conducted and that the terms of this subchapter shall be met.
(2003 Code, § 11-402.1)
   (C)   The Town Manager shall issue a permit to engage on the junk business
to the applicant thereof if it shall appear that the location of the junkyard
shall not constitute a fire hazard or other hazardous condition to any adjacent
property.
(2003 Code, § 11-402.2)
§ 112.03 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   Any person or corporation operating or maintaining a junkyard shall keep
records on each article of junk, which will show the following:
(2003 Code, § 11-403)
   (A)   Description of junk;
(2003 Code, § 11-403.1)
   (B)   Person or corporation from whom obtained; and
(2003 Code, § 11-403.2)
   (C)   Serial or motor number, if any.
(2003 Code, § 11-403.3)
§ 112.04 RECORD RETENTION.
   The records required to be kept by junk dealers shall not be destroyed until
three years of age and shall be available for inspection by the Town Manager or
Chief of Police at reasonable times.
(2003 Code, § 11-404) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 ENCLOSURE REQUIRED.
   All junkyards shall be enclosed by a wire or metal fence of a minimum height
of six feet, protected by gates which may be locked, and shall be locked when
an attendant is not present. The plans for construction of the fence and gates
shall be first submitted to the Town Manager and approved by him or her.
(2003 Code, § 11-405) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Nothing but automobile dismantling shall be carried on in any automobile or
truck junkyard, and if repairs are made at or in any junkyards to automobiles
or trucks, such repairs shall be made in a building meeting all the applicable
provisions of the code and state law.
(2003 Code, § 11-406) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No junk or any vehicle, including automobiles and trucks, shall be burned in
or on any premises occupied as a junkyard.
(2003 Code, § 11-407) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Gas and oil and all other combustible materials shall be stored in a
building of fireproof construction, which shall be constructed in full
compliance with all applicable provisions of this code and state law.
(2003 Code, § 11-408.1)
   (B)   Upon being stored or placed in the junkyard, all gas and oil shall be
drained from vehicles and stores.
(2003 Code, § 11-408.2)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 WRECKED, JUNKED AUTOMOBILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, keep, store, or otherwise
allow any junked or wrecked automobile or other vehicle which may constitute a
sanitary or attractive nuisance or otherwise be a menace to the health and
welfare of the citizens of the town within or upon any portion of real property
owned by him or her, street, or highway right-of-way, or otherwise, except
within a duly licensed junkyard.
(2003 Code, § 11-409) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 INCORPORATION OF CHATHAM COUNTY JUNKYARD CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   The Chatham County Junkyard Control Ordinance is incorporated in this
section as if included at length herein.
(2003 Code, § Chapter 11, Article V)
GARAGE/YARD SALES
§ 112.25 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE. A display and sale from a residence or residential
property or personal property, which has been owned or previously used. The
term YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE does not include the mere incidental sale of one
or two items of personal property when such sale is not part of a general sale
of a number of items of personal property.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.01)
§ 112.26 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any yard sale or garage sale without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the town.
   (B)   All such sales shall be subject to the following rules and
regulations.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02)
      (1)   Permits. All persons conducting such sale shall obtain a permit
therefor from the tax collector. Applications for such permit shall be made to
the tax collector in such form as may be required by the town and shall be
accompanied by a permit fee in the amount of $5.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.1)
      (2)   Consignment sales prohibited. No one shall accept or take in for
sale any goods from any commercial business or enterprise on a consignment
basis for sale in a yard sale.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.2)
      (3)   Signs.
         (a)   Two off-site directional signs may be permitted for each yard
sale, but only during the hours the sale is actively being conducted.
         (b)   Off-site signs must be removed at the close of the sale
activities, or by the end of daylight, whichever first occurs, each day of the
sale.
         (c)   No freestanding signs may be placed in the public right-of-way.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.3)
      (4)   Number listed. Not more than two such sales per year shall be held
at the premises if occupied by the same family or any member of such family. No
single sale shall be conducted for longer than two consecutive weekends or more
than 72 hours in a single week.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.4)
      (5)   Hours. Yard sales or garage sales may be conducted during daylight
hours only.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.5)
      (6)   Unowned premises. No yard sale or garage sale shall be permitted on
premises not owned or controlled by the person holding the sale. Any violation
of this division shall be referred to the Zoning Inspector for investigation of
possible violation of the Zoning Ordinance.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.02.6)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.27 COVERAGE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect persons
selling goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or
persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.03)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §§
112.25 through
112.27 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be
recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued a written citation, which must
be paid within 72 hours.
      (2)   Each day’s continuing violation of §§
112.25 through
112.27 shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(2003 Code, § 22-2.04)
CHAPTER 113: LIQUOR OPERATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Public drunkenness
   
113.02   Consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
113.03   Hours for sale and consumption
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
   
113.15   Establishment
   
113.16   Membership; appointment; term of office
   
113.17   Qualifications
   
113.18   Salary
   
113.19   Vacancy
   
113.20   Removal
   
113.21   Bond
   
113.22   Conflict of interest
   
113.23   Powers of Board
   
113.24   Establishment of a capital reserve fund
   
113.25   Personnel
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be drunk and disorderly in any public
place or any public street in the town.
(2003 Code, § 4-100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any malt beverage or
unfortified wine, as defined under G.S. Ch. 18B in or on any public street,
right-of-way, sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the town or on any
town-owned property which is located inside or outside the town limits, except
to the extent that such consumption may be allowed for authorized sidewalk
dining or special events for which a permit has been approved by the Town
Manager or designee.
(2003 Code, § 4-101.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or possess any opened
malt beverage or unfortified wine bottle, can, or other container in or on any
public street, right-of-way, sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the
town or on any town-owned property which is located inside or outside the town
limits, except to the extent that such display or possession may be allowed for
authorized sidewalk dining or special events.
(2003 Code, § 4-101.2)
(Ord. 0-8-19, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. passed COA-2021-02, passed 11-8-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 HOURS FOR SALE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Hours. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful to sell malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, or mixed
beverages between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., or to consume any of
those alcoholic beverages between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m., in any
place which has been issued a permit under G.S. § 18B-1001 except as may be
permitted by the town for special events.
(2003 Code, § 4-102.1)
   (B)   Daylight Saving Time. From the last Sunday in April until the last
Sunday in October, sales of alcoholic beverages may continue until 2:00 a.m.
rather than 1:00 a.m. and consumption of alcoholic beverages may continue until
2:30 a.m. rather than 1:30 a.m., on any licensed premises except as may be
permitted by the town for special events.
(2003 Code, § 4-102.2)
   (C)   Sunday hours. It shall be unlawful to sell or consume alcoholic
beverages on any licensed premises from the time at which sale or consumption
must cease on Sunday morning until 1:00 p.m. on that day except as may be
permitted by the town for special events.
(2003 Code, § 4-102.3)
   (D)   Permit sales. Pursuant to the authority granted by N.C. Session Law
2017-87, any establishment located in the corporate limits of and holding an
ABC permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages
allowed by its permit beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2017; Ord. 0-8-19, passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL BOARD
§ 113.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established, in accordance with a special town election held
on August 14, 1971, a local alcoholic beverage control board to be known as the
“Town of Pittsboro Alcoholic Beverage Control Board,” hereinafter referred to
as the “ABC Board” for purposes of this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 4-201)
§ 113.16 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The ABC Board shall consist of three members appointed by the Mayor, with
the approval of the majority of the Board of Commissioners, for three-year
staggered terms, as provided in G.S. § 18B-700.
(2003 Code, § 4-202)
§ 113.17 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Members of the ABC Board shall be appointed on the basis of the appointees’
interest in public affairs, good judgment, knowledge, ability, and good moral
character.
(2003 Code, § 4-203)
§ 113.18 SALARY.
   The Board of Commissioners may set initial compensation for the ABC Board
members and may, from time to time, adjust such compensation.
(2003 Code, § 4-204)
§ 113.19 VACANCY.
   (A)   A vacancy on the ABC Board shall be filled by the Mayor, with the
approval of the majority of the Board of Commissioners, for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (B)   If the Chairperson’s seat becomes vacant, the Board of Commissioners
may designate either the new member or an existing member of the local board to
complete the Chairperson’s term.
(2003 Code, § 4-205)
§ 113.20 REMOVAL.
   A member of the ABC Board may be removed from office by the Board of
Commissioners for a conviction of a violation of any provision of G.S. Ch. 18B,
“Regulation of Alcoholic Beverages,” or a conviction of any felony, and may
declare that person ineligible for membership on the ABC Board for a period of
not longer than three years.
(2003 Code, § 4-206)
§ 113.21 BOND.
   (A)   Before taking office, each ABC Board member shall deposit with the
state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission a bond of $5,000, secured by a
corporate surety, for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   The bond shall be payable to the ABC Board and shall be approved by
the Commission and by the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 4-207)
§ 113.22 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Financial interests restricted.
      (1)   No person shall be appointed to, or employed by, the ABC Board if
that person or a member of his or her household related to him or her by blood
or marriage has or controls, directly or indirectly, a financial interest in
any commercial alcoholic beverage enterprise, including any business required
to have an ABC permit.
      (2)   The state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission may exempt from
this provision any person when the financial interest in question is so
insignificant or remote that it is unlikely to affect the person’s official
actions in any way.
      (3)   Exemptions may be granted only to individuals, not to groups or
classes of people, and each exemption shall be in writing, be available for
public inspection, and contain a statement of the financial interest in
question.
(2003 Code, § 4-208.1)
   (B)   Self dealing. The provisions of G.S. § 14-234 shall apply to each ABC
Board member.
(2003 Code, § 4-208.2)
   (C)   Dealing for family members. The ABC Board shall not contact or
otherwise deal in any business matter so that a member’s spouse or any person
related to him or her by blood to a degree of first cousin or closer in any way
benefits, directly or indirectly, from the transaction unless:
(2003 Code, § 4-208.3)
      (1)   The member whose relative benefits from the transaction abstains
from participating in any way, including voting, in the decision;
(2003 Code, § 4-208.3.1)
      (2)   The minutes of the meeting at which the final decision is reached
specifically note the member whose spouse or relative is benefitted and the
amount involved in each transaction;
(2003 Code, § 4-208.3.2)
      (3)   The next annual audit of the ABC Board specifically notes the
member and the amount involved in each transaction occurring during the year
covered by the audit; and
(2003 Code, § 4-208.3.3)
      (4)   The state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission is notified of
the transaction at least two weeks before final Board approval of the
transaction.
(2003 Code, § 4-208.3.4)
§ 113.23 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The ABC Board, in accordance with G.S. § 18B-701, shall have the authority
to:
(2003 Code, § 4-209)
   (A)   Buy, sell, transport, and possess alcoholic beverages as necessary for
the operation of its ABC stores;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.1)
   (B)   Adopt rules for its ABC system, subject to the approval of the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.2)
   (C)   Hire and fire employees for the ABC system;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.3)
   (D)   Designate one employee as Manager of the ABC system and determine his
or her responsibilities;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.4)
   (E)   Require bonds of employees as provided in the rules of the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.5)
   (F)   Operate ABC stores as provided in G.S. Ch. 18B, Art. 8 (G.S. § 18B-800
et seq.);
(2003 Code, § 4-209.6)
   (G)   Employ local ABC officers or make other provision for enforcement of
ABC laws as provided in G.S. Ch. 18B, Art. 5 (G.S. § 18B-500 et seq.);
(2003 Code, § 4-209.8)
   (H)   Borrow money as provided in G.S. § 18B-702;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.9)
   (I)   Buy and lease real and personal property, and receive property
bequeathed or given, as necessary for the operation of the ABC system;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.10)
   (J)   Invest surplus funds as provided in G.S. § 18B-500;
(2003 Code, § 4-209.11)
   (K)   Dispose of property in the same manner as a City Council may under
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12 (G.S. §§ 160A-265 et seq.); and
(2003 Code, § 4-209.12)
   (L)   Perform any other activity authorized or required by the ABC law.
(2003 Code, § 4-209.13)
§ 113.24 ESTABLISHMENT OF A CAPITAL RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   From and after the effective date hereof, there be, and it hereby is,
created a reserve fund for the purpose of accumulating monies for the
acquisition, construction, establishment, enlargement, improvement,
maintenance, ownership, operation, and contracting for the operation of
facilities, parks, vehicles, real and personal property, streets, and
sidewalks.
(2003 Code, § 4-401)
   (B)   The approximate period for the accumulation of monies pursuant hereto
for the purposes stated herein shall be a term of 20 years.
(2003 Code, § 4-402)
   (C)   The approximate amount of monies to be accumulated for the purposes
herein set forth shall be the sum of $1,000,000.
(2003 Code, § 4-403)
   (D)   The sources of said monies shall be sums budgeted annually from ad
valorem tax revenues, payments received in lieu of dedication, proceeds from
sales of real property, and interest accruing thereon.
(2003 Code, § 4-404)
§ 113.25 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Employees of Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall
employ the Manager and Attorney for length of time determined by Board. A
signed contract shall be prepared.
(2003 Code, § 4-501)
   (B)   Personnel responsible to Manager.
      (1)   Town Clerk;
      (2)   Chief of Police;
      (3)   Sewer plant operator in charge;
      (4)   Water plant operator in charge;
      (5)   Public Utilities Director; and
      (6)   Support personnel within each of the departments above.
(2003 Code, § 4-502)
   (C)   Powers granted to Manager.
      (1)   The powers of the Manager include, but are not limited to, those
specified in the general statutes.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners may assign other powers so long as the
General Statutes so grants the power to do.
(2003 Code, § 4-503)
   (D)   Personnel policy.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall cause to be prepared and adopt a
personnel policy.
      (2)   The personnel policy shall be a part of this subchapter as if it
were incorporated herein.
(2003 Code, § 4-504)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
Special Events
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Permit required; exceptions
   
114.03   Application for permit
   
114.04   Action on application
   
114.05   Duties of applicant
   
114.06   Payment of costs for services and equipment provided by the town or
for damage to public property
   
114.07   Security
   
114.08   Street closures to vehicle traffic
   
114.09   Alcohol sales and consumption
   
114.10   Prohibited conduct
   
114.11   Termination and revocation of permit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   Special events are activities that impact the ordinary
allocation of town personnel or the ordinary use of town streets, alleys,
sidewalks, rights-of-way, parks, parking lots/facilities, plazas, or other town
property.
      (2)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish criteria and
procedures for applying for and approval of a special event permit granted by
the town.
      (3)   Protecting all persons’ civil liberties and constitutional rights
is paramount. Nothing in this subchapter is intended to or shall interfere in
any way with constitutionally protected activity.
   (B)   The obligation of complying with the requirements of this subchapter
is upon the applicant or sponsor, and nothing contained in this subchapter is
intended to be construed to create or form the basis for liability on the part
of the town, or its officers, employees, or agents, for any injury or damage
resulting from the failure of the applicant or sponsor to comply with the
provisions stated herein.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person(s) or organization(s) is to engage in, form, start, or
operate a special event in or on or requiring exclusive use of or closure of
public property unless a permit is obtained from the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Any use of public property that is otherwise permitted by law;
      (2)   Funeral processions supervised by a licensed mortuary; and
      (3)   Any local, state, or federal governmental agency acting in the
scope of its authorized functions.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   A person or organization seeking the issuance of a special event
permit shall file an application with the town. The application form will be
provided by the town.
      (2)   The Town Manager will assign a town staff person the responsibility
for administering and enforcing this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a special event application, the application will
be forwarded to appropriate town staff members who will make a recommendation
on the permit application as expeditiously as possible.
      (4)   In addition to the town special event permit application, the
applicant may also be required to secure approval from the state’s Department
of Transportation if the event requires the closure of a state roadway.
   (B)   (1)   An application shall be completed, signed, and submitted at
least 45 days before the date the special event is to commence.
      (2)   The town, where good cause is shown, shall have the authority to
consider any application which is filed less than 45 days before the date of
the event.
      (3)   Any required application and/or processing fee for any special
event permit shall be set by resolution. If an application and/or processing
fee is required, it is nonrefundable, and payment shall be made to the town’s
Finance Department at the time the application is submitted.
   (C)   A person or organization shall complete all information listed on the
town’s special event permit application and any other additional information
which a town official shall find reasonably necessary to make a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   The town shall issue a permit for a proposed special event unless it
finds any of the following.
      (1)   The event would likely endanger public safety or health.
      (2)   The proposed event would seriously and unreasonably inconvenience
or impact the general public’s use of public property, services, or facilities.
      (3)   The event would unreasonably infringe upon the rights of abutting
properties.
      (4)   The event would conflict with another proximate event or interfere
with construction or maintenance work in the immediate vicinity.
      (5)   There is not sufficient qualified safety personnel or other
necessary town staff to accommodate the event.
      (6)   The applicant failed to complete the application form or provide
other required information in a timely manner after being notified of the
additional information or documents required.
      (7)   Information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is found to be false in any material
detail.
      (8)   The applicant cannot meet, or is unwilling to meet, all the
requirements of this subchapter or any special conditions imposed by the town.
      (9)   Other issues in the public interest were identified by the Town
Manager or Board of Commissioners.
      (10)   The applicant failed to prepay required expenses, fees, charges,
deposits, insurance, or bonds.
      (11)   The proposed event is scheduled to occur at a route or location
adjacent to a school or class during a time when such school or class is in
session, and the noise created by the activities of the event would
substantially disrupt the educational activities of the school or class.
      (12)   The purpose of the proposed event is to incite crime or the
overthrow of the government by force or the event would engage in or encourage
participants to engage in illegal acts.
   (E)   Generally, the town requires proof of liability insurance from the
applicant by requiring the applicant to submit a copy of a certificate of
insurance in an amount determined by the town and requires the execution of a
hold harmless agreement to indemnify the town in the event the town is held
liable for any injuries or damage as a result of the event.
   (F)   The persons or organization shall comply with all other applicable
federal, state, and local statutes, ordinances, codes, licenses, permits,
rules, or regulations.
   (G)   The persons or organizations shall also comply with all directives and
instructions from the town administration, police, fire, public works, and
parks and recreation personnel.
   (H)   Recurring special events sponsored by the Pittsboro Business
Association, Inc., known as “First Sundays,” may file one application annually
with sufficient information to identify the dates and times for each event; but
otherwise shall be required to comply with all of the other terms and
conditions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.04 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Unless extenuating circumstances exist, the Board of
Commissioners shall act on all special event permit applications requesting
alcohol sales and consumption at a regular Board meeting.
      (2)   For special event permit applications not involving alcohol, the
Town Manager has the authority to review and make a decision on the special
event permit request.
   (B)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of Town Board’s or Town
Manager’s decision on the special event permit application. If the application
is disapproved, the reasons therefor shall be set forth in writing.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.05 DUTIES OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   General. The applicant under this subchapter shall comply with all
permit directions, instructions, guidelines, and conditions.
   (B)   Cleanup. Arrangements must be made with the Public Works Department by
the applicant for trash containers and procedures to clean the public property
used for the special event. Cleanup must begin immediately after the special
event and continue until completed with all refuse and recycling properly
contained for collection and disposal.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.06 PAYMENT OF COSTS FOR SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT PROVIDED BY THE TOWN OR
FOR DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public services and equipment.
      (1)   The town may impose reasonable fees and requirements upon the
applicant as necessary to cover the costs of public services and equipment
provided by the town for the special event.
      (2)   If a fee is imposed, an estimate of the anticipated fee may be
required to be paid at the time the permit is approved.
   (B)   Canceled event.
      (1)   If a fee is imposed and the special event is canceled without at
least 48 hours’ notice, the fee will still be assessed to cover the cost of
labor and equipment.
      (2)   The assessed fee will not apply if inclement weather, disaster, or
other unforeseen circumstances occur that are not in the applicant’s control
result in the cancellation of the special event.
   (C)   Damage. If damage to public property occurs as a result of the special
event, the applicant shall be responsible for reimbursing the town for the
material and labor cost to repair the damage.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.07 SECURITY.
   The applicant may be required to reimburse the town for the cost of
additional police services the Chief of Police determines is required to ensure
public safety for the special event.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.08 STREET CLOSURES TO VEHICLE TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   Closing public streets to vehicular traffic can create an
inconvenience for neighboring businesses, residents, and the driving public.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to close any street to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, that request shall be included in the application.
      (3)   The applicant shall submit with the application documentation from
all properties located on the segment of the street to be closed indicating
whether the property owner/manager supports the street closure request.
   (B)   In addition to the street closure requirements below, all street
closures must be done in accordance with the North Carolina Department of
Transportation (“NCDOT”) and any local regulations. The applicant is
responsible for any costs associated with meeting any NCDOT or local street
closing regulations.
   (C)   All street closure requests, especially requests to close a state
roadway, will be carefully evaluated to determine if the community benefit from
closing the street for the proposed special event outweighs the inconvenience
or impact to the neighboring businesses, residents, and general public’s use of
public property, services, or facilities. This evaluation can be cause for
denying the street closure request.
   (D)   If a street closure is requested, the applicant may be required to
meet with town police and/or public works staff to discuss in detail the street
closure request and to develop a traffic detour and traffic control plan.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.09 ALCOHOL SALES AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter, ALCOHOL refers to malt beverages,
unfortified wine, fortified wine, and spirituous liquor. Under no circumstances
shall any other type of alcohol be approved.
   (B)   Special events that include the tasting or sale of alcohol may only be
considered for approval if requested for special events sponsored or
cosponsored by Mainstreet Pittsboro, Inc. (MPI) or Pittsboro Business
Association (PBA) but only within the defined Main Street Boundary Area.
   (C)   For the Board to consider a request for the sale and consumption of
alcohol, MPI, PBA, and/or its cosponsor shall provide the following with the
special event application.
      (1)   Location, hours of sales, site diagram, security procedures
(volunteer and uniform staffing, ID checking, and dispensing operations),
physical enclosure measures, parking locations for beer trucks, and the like.
      (2)   The service of and consumption of alcoholic beverages must comply
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws or regulations, including,
but not limited to, the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission (ABC) licensing
and other ABC regulations. Before a special event permit is approved,
documentation shall be provided to the town showing that the proposed alcohol
sales comply with all ABC licensing and other ABC regulations.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages may be served to consumers in glass, paper, or
plastic containers and in containers no larger than 16 fluid ounces.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to revoke the permit or require the
applicant to discontinue alcohol sales and consumption whenever town police
determine the consumption of alcohol by participants becomes excessive, or
whenever town police determines participants are demonstrating unruly, loud,
abusive, or other inappropriate behavior during the special event.
   (E)   If the Board approves the sale and consumption of alcohol for a
special event, the following shall apply.
      (1)   (a)   The applicant must post signs stating that alcoholic
beverages are prohibited beyond the approved permitted area and that underage
drinking is prohibited.
         (b)   Signs must be posted adequately designating the approved
permitted area.
      (2)   (a)   All participants consuming alcohol must be provided and wear
a designating item to identify that they are of legal drinking age.
      (b)   The specific type of item the applicant proposes to issue is
subject to approval by the town. At a minimum, the item issued shall be so
designed that it would prevent a person from transferring the identifier to
another person.
      (3)   All alcohol sales must end at least 45 minutes before the scheduled
ending time of the special event.
      (4)   The applicant must also provide a nonalcoholic beverage option.
      (5)   Any other requirements determined by the Board shall be followed.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any special event, or with any person, vehicle, or animal participating or
used in any special event.
   (B)   The town shall have the authority to prohibit or restrict the parking
of vehicles along a street or area properly designated or posted for an
approved special event, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or
leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 TERMINATION AND REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A special event permit issued under this subchapter for a special
event in progress may be terminated by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee, if termination is a reasonable and necessary response to imminent
danger or threat to public safety.
   (B)   A special event permit may be revoked by the town for failing to
comply with the conditions for the issuance of the permit, violating any
provision of this subchapter or other applicable ordinances and state law.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to obey or violation of any provision(s) of §§
114.01 through
114.11, or any order, requirement, or condition imposed as part of the permit
approval, shall be a violation of §§
114.01 through
114.11 by the applicant and may result in the termination of the special event,
revocation of the special event permit, and/or subject the violator to a fine
as listed in division (B)(2) below. A future special event permit request may
be denied based on a past violation of §§
114.01 through
114.11.
      (2)   Any person failing to obey or who violates any provision of §§
114.01 through
114.11, or any order, requirement, or condition imposed as part of the permit
approval, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum fine of
$500.
(Ord. 0-9-19, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Compliance with town and state laws
   
115.02   Liability of town
   
115.03   Town officers not to accept favors from owners or drivers
Requirements of Operator
   
115.15   Number of vehicles restricted
   
115.16   Rates and charges
   
115.17   Vehicles to be listed for taxes
   
115.18   Terminals required
   
115.19   Insurance
   
115.20   Maintenance of vehicles
   
115.21   Number of passengers
   
115.22   Acceptance of additional passengers
   
115.23   Refusal of passengers restricted
   
115.24   Receipt; discharge of passengers
   
115.25   Misrepresentation of service by driver
   
115.26   Property left in vehicle; disposition
Licensing
   
115.40   Required
   
115.41   Application
   
115.42   Fees
   
115.43   Conditions of issuance
   
115.44   Issuance
   
115.45   Effect of transfer of ownership
   
115.46   Expiration; renewal
   
115.47   Revocation; suspension
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 15-27.2 18B-401, 20-87, 20-97, 20-101, 20-
280, 160A-76, and 20-183.2 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN AND STATE LAWS.
   Every taxicab shall be operated in accordance with the laws of this state,
the provisions of this code, and other applicable ordinances, regulations, and
rules of the town.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.01)
§ 115.02 LIABILITY OF TOWN.
   The town shall not be liable for any reason for any amount due to any claim
or on account of any action or omission of any officer of the town in
connection with any matter relating to taxicabs.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.02)
§ 115.03 TOWN OFFICERS NOT TO ACCEPT FAVORS FROM OWNERS OR DRIVERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the town to accept,
directly or indirectly, any gifts, discounts, or gratuities from any holder of
a taxicab permit or any taxicab driver or from any person engaged in the repair
of taxicabs.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR
§ 115.15 NUMBER OF VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   The Board of Commissioners shall from time to time determine the number of
taxicabs that may be profitably operated within the town, based on the need for
taxicab service.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.03)
§ 115.16 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Board of Commissioners shall, at all times, have the right to fix the
rates charged by any and all taxicabs carrying passengers inside or outside the
town limits and shall have authority to alter or change the rates so charged
from time to time as the need may arise.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.04)
§ 115.17 VEHICLES TO BE LISTED FOR TAXES.
   Every taxicab operated within the town shall be listed for property tax on
the town tax rolls.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.05)
§ 115.18 TERMINALS REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall operate in the town unless the same shall have a permanent
depot or terminal on private property. The person engaged in the business of
operating the taxicab shall notify the town of any change of location of the
depot or terminal.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.19 INSURANCE.
   No person shall operate a taxicab in the town without first complying with
the state law relative to insurance and first depositing evidence of his or her
compliance with the state law with the Town Clerk. The taxicab insurance shall
be kept in force throughout the time of operation of the business. Insurance
companies issuing policies of insurance under this section shall, at the time
of issuance of such policies, issue a certificate to the town, specifically
providing that the insurance policy will not be changed or cancelled without
notice first being given to the town.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.20 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES.
   Each taxicab owner shall, at all times, maintain the taxicab he or she is
driving in a clean, sanitary, and good mechanical condition.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.21 NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or causing to be operated
taxicabs or motor vehicles carrying passengers for hire within the corporate
limits to carry at any one time in any such motor vehicle so used and operated,
more passengers than the seating capacity of the motor vehicle, including the
driver. Children are excepted if state requirement of restraint belts or seats
is met.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.22 ACCEPTANCE OF ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator, driver, or owner of any
taxicab carrying passengers for hire within the corporate limits to permit any
person from the general public to ride in any taxicab for hire, when such
taxicab owner, operator, or driver is transporting in such taxicab for hire a
paying passenger if such passenger objects thereto.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.23 REFUSAL OF PASSENGERS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator to refuse to carry or
transport any orderly person anywhere in the town, unless previously engaged or
unable to do so.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.24 RECEIPT; DISCHARGE OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver of a taxicab shall receive or discharge passengers in the roadway
of any street, but shall drive to the right-hand sidewalk, as nearly as
possible, or, in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right-hand side of
the road, and there receive or discharge passengers.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.25 MISREPRESENTATION OF SERVICE BY DRIVER.
   No driver shall deceive or attempt to deceive any passenger who may ride in
his or her taxicab, or who may desire to ride in such taxicab, as to his or her
destination or the rate of fare to be charged or shall convey any passenger, or
cause him or her to be conveyed, to a place other than directed by him or her,
and in no event shall any operator take a longer route to the destination than
necessary, unless so requested by the passenger.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.26 PROPERTY LEFT IN VEHICLE; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   All drivers of taxicabs shall promptly deliver to the Police
Department of the town or to their employers all property left in such vehicles
by passengers.
   (B)   If a driver delivers such articles to his or her employer, the latter
shall deliver them to the Police Department.
   (C)   When articles left in taxicabs have been delivered to the office of
the Chief of Police, he or she shall make an entry of the fact in a book
provided for that purpose and shall keep all such articles until claimed by the
owner, as the Board of Commissioners may authorize.
(2003 Code, § 24-1.15)
LICENSING
§ 115.40 REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate any taxicab in the town without first having secured
a privilege license to operate such taxicab from the Town Clerk.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.41 APPLICATION.
   All applicants for privilege licenses required by this subchapter shall make
a formal application setting out in such application:
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02)
   (A)   The number of cabs then in operation;
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02.1)
   (B)   The number of additional taxicabs requested;
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02.2)
   (C)   The make, year, and model of cabs then in use and those requested to
be placed in use;
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02.3)
   (D)   The name of the proposed driver; and
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02.4)
   (E)   Such further information as the Board may request.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.02.5)
§ 115.42 FEES.
   No privilege license shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter
until the applicant therefor has first paid to the Town Clerk a fee of $15.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.03)
§ 115.43 CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE.
   The Board of Commissioners may issue privilege licenses under the provisions
of this subchapter upon the following conditions:
(2003 Code, § 24-2.04)
   (A)   After first finding that such taxi service is needed by the general
public;
(2003 Code, § 24-2.04.1)
   (B)   After first finding that the applicant is a fit and proper person to
provide such services and has the necessary equipment and financial
responsibility and experience; and/or
(2003 Code, § 24-2.04.2)
   (C)   The applicant will furnish the liability insurance as required by the
Board of Commissioners or required under the provisions of the laws of the
state.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.04.3)
§ 115.44 ISSUANCE.
   The Town Clerk shall issue a privilege license applied for under the
provisions of this subchapter only after being authorized to do so by the Board
of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.05)
§ 115.45 EFFECT OF TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Change of ownership or title to any taxicab or taxicabs shall
automatically revoke any privilege license previously issued for operation of
the same; and the purchaser or transferee shall not be allowed to operate the
same as a taxicab until he or she has applied for and been granted a privilege
license and paid the fees as herein provided.
   (B)   A lease of a taxicab for the purpose of this section is deemed a sale
or transfer of same.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.46 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   All privilege licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter for
the operation of taxicabs in the town shall expire on June 13 of each year and
no person shall continue the operation of taxicabs until a renewal license has
been issued for such purpose.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.47 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   Any privilege license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be
revoked or suspended by the Board of Commissioners for the violation by the
licensee of any applicable provision of this code, state law, or town
ordinance, rule, or regulation.
(2003 Code, § 24-2.08)
CHAPTER 116: SOCIAL DISTRICT
Section
   
116.01   Purpose and intent
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Application
   
116.04   Requirements for sale of alcoholic beverages
   
116.05   Requirements for possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
116.06   Exceptions
§ 116.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-205.4 et. seq., one or more
social districts may be created within the town and the Board of Commissioners
hereby creates and designates the following social district: Downtown Pittsboro
Social District which is designated as shown on the map on Exhibit A of the
ordinance passed 9-25-2023. The map is available in the office of the Town
Clerk, and signage and/or markings shall be posted clearly delineating the
boundaries of the social district.
   (B)   The Downtown Pittsboro Social District shall be created, designated,
and managed in accordance with the requirements contained in G.S. § 160A-205.4
and Ch. 18B.
   (C)   Any person who violates this chapter, and any person who aids, abets,
encourages, assists in,or contributes to such violation, shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor punished by a fine of $100 or imprisonment not exceeding 30
days pursuant to G.S. §§ 14-4 and § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   CUSTOMER. A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage from a permittee that
is in a social district.
   NON-PERMITTEE. An establishment that is located in a social district and
does not hold any ABC permits issued by the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission.
   PERMITTEE. An establishment or person holding any of the following ABC
permits issued by the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission:
      (1)   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
1001(1).
      (2)   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(3).
      (3)   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
1001(5).
      (4)   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(10).
      (5)   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(16).
      (6)   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1100(5).
   PREMISES. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside or
outside the permitted establishment, where the permittee has control through a
deed, lease, or other legal process.
   SOCIAL DISTRICT. A defined area in which a person may consume alcoholic
beverages sold by a permittee. A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include both indoor and
outdoor areas of business within the defined area during the days and hours
established by this chapter. A SOCIAL DISTRICT may include privately owned
property, including permittees and non-permittee businesses, multi-tenant
establishments, public streets, crosswalks, or parking areas whether or not the
streets or parking areas are closed to vehicle traffic.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)
§ 116.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions and terms contained in this chapter shall be applicable
between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, between the
hours of 11:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Saturday, and between the hours of 1:00
p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Sunday. At all other times, the provisions and terms
contained in this chapter are not in effect and all provisions of state and
local laws concerning the possession and consumption in the social district
shall be in full force and effect.
   (B)   Any alcoholic beverage purchased for consumption in the social
district shall:
      (1)   Only be consumed in the social district; and
      (2)   Be disposed of before the person in possession of the alcoholic
beverage exits the social district. A violation of this section is a Class 3
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)
§ 116.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   A permittee located in a social district may sell alcoholic beverages
for consumption within the social district in which it is located in accordance
with the following requirements:
      (1)   The permittee shall only sell and serve alcoholic beverages on its
licensed premises.
      (2)   The permittee shall only sell alcoholic beverages for consumption
in the social district in which it is located in a container that meets all of
the following requirements:
         (a)   The container clearly identifies the permittee from which the
alcoholic beverage was purchased and the date and time of purchase.
         (b)   The container clearly displays a logo or some other mark that is
unique to the Downtown Pittsboro Social District.
         (c)   The container is not comprised of glass.
         (d)   The container displays, in no less than 12 point font, the
statement: “drink responsibly- be 21.”
         (e)   The container shall not hold more than 16 fluid ounces.
   (B)   The permittee shall not allow a person to enter or re-enter its
licensed premises with an alcoholic beverage not sold by a permittee
established in the social district to sell alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)
§ 116.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The possession and consumption of an alcoholic beverage in a social district
is subject to all of the following requirements:
   (A)   Only alcoholic beverages purchased from a permittee located in the
social district may be possessed and consumed in the social district.
   (B)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be in containers meeting the
requirements set forth in §
116.04(A).
   (C)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be possessed and consumed on the days
and during the hours designated in §
116.03(A).
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the sale and
delivery of alcoholic beverage drinks in excess of the limitation set forth in
G.S. § 188-1010.
   (E)   A person shall dispose of any alcoholic beverage in the person's
possession prior to exiting the social district.
   (F)   A participating non-permittee business is required to always display
the uniform sign during the times when the social district is active as to
whether the business allows for patrons to enter their business with alcohol.
   (G)   All permittee and non-permittee businesses that are part of a social
district and allow customers to bring alcoholic beverages onto their premises
are required to clearly post signage on any exits that do not open to the
social district indicating that alcoholic beverage cannot be taken past that
point.
   (H)   During the days and hours when the social district is in effect as set
forth in §
116.03(A), a non-permittee business that allows customers to bring alcoholic
beverages onto its premises is required to allow law enforcement officers
access to the areas of the premises accessible by customers.
   (I)   A violation of this section is a Class 3 misdemeanor punished by a
fine of $100 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days pursuant to G.S. § 14-4 and
G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)
§ 116.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   When a special event is held pursuant to the issuance of a special event
permit as set out in this code, the terms and conditions of the special event
permit supersede the provisions of this chapter within the boundaries of the
special event. Purchases of alcohol within the boundaries of the special event
can be taken outside of the special event into the boundary of the social
district in compliance with G.S. §§ 18B-300.1(j)(1) through (3). A violation of
this section is a Class 3 misdemeanor punished by a fine of $100 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days pursuant to G.S. § 14-4 and G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 9-25-2023)   
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   FALSE SECURITY ALARMS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Possession of dangerous weapons
   
130.03   No weapon signs
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or project any stone, rock,
shot, or other hard substance by means of a slingshot, beanshooter, air rifle,
popgun, bow, or other similar contrivance; or to fire any pistol, gun, or other
firearm within the town, except on archery ranges or in the discharge of duty
by law enforcement officers; provided that the use of firearms in the
destruction of rodents, pigeons, squirrels, or similar animals or birds or
reptiles that are considered a menace to public health or property may be
permitted by special permission of the Chief of Police; and, provided further,
that the use of a bow and arrow to hunt white-tailed deer pursuant to the rules
and regulations of the state’s Wildlife Commission and the town shall be
permitted.
(Ord. 0-25-09, passed 9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   If any person shall have in his or her immediate possession and
control any bowie knife, dirk, dagger, slingshot, loaded cane, brass, iron, or
metallic knuckles, razor, pistol, shotgun, rifle, or other deadly weapon of
like kind while under the influence of intoxicating drink, or at the premises
of a church, polling place, or other public assembly, he or she shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply within the town limits and
within three miles thereof.
(2003 Code, § 18-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 130.03 NO WEAPON SIGNS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The Town Manager is hereby ordered to post
appropriate signage on each park, building, or portion of a building now or
hereafter owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed, or controlled
by the town, as well as the appurtenant premises to such buildings, indicating
that concealed handguns are prohibited therein.
(2003 Code, § 18-300)
   (B)   Location of Signs.
      (1)   Said signs shall be visibly posted at each exterior entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premise, or park.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premises, or park.
(2003 Code, § 18-301)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Public intoxication
   
131.03   Disturbing public meetings
   
131.04   Schools, discipline, and order
   
131.05   Malicious mischief
   
131.06   Throwing objects
   
131.07   Nuisance
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 14 and § 160A-174
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Any person who shall be present and participating or involved in any
unlawful or disorderly conduct or assembly in any town public streets or
buildings, whether on foot or in a vehicle, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2003 Code, § 18-103)
§ 131.02 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to be in the streets or in
any other public place drunk or in an intoxicated condition.
(2003 Code, § 18-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   No person shall whistle, sing, shout, or talk or make any noise at any
concert, play, school commencement, or other amusement, or near the places
where such are held, anywhere within the corporate limits, so as to disturb or
annoy the person or persons taking part in or attending the same.
(2003 Code, § 18-105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 SCHOOLS, DISCIPLINE, AND ORDER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter unnecessarily in or
around any public school ground in the town, or on the streets and sidewalks
adjacent thereto, or to willfully interfere with or disturb any public school
by whistling, signaling, blowing automobile horns, or otherwise trying to
attract the attention of the public of such school, or by willfully disturbing
the teachers or pupils of such school in any manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the grounds of any
public school in the town for the purpose of doing any of the unlawful acts
herein mentioned.
(2003 Code, § 18-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure, damage, deface,
break, mutilate, or otherwise harm any real or personal property, whether
public or private, not his or her own.
(2003 Code, § 18-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 THROWING OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw from any window, porch, door, or roof of any building
or structure any article which may endanger or annoy the pedestrians on any
street.
(2003 Code, § 18-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 NUISANCE.
   Every person owning or occupying a house or lot within the limits of the
town shall, within 24 hours after notice is served on him or her by any police
officer of the town, abate and suppress any nuisance and remove any wastes or
thing which may be injurious to the public health or dangerous to the town.
(2003 Code, § 18-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: FALSE SECURITY ALARMS
Section
   
132.01   Purpose and findings
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Audible alarm sounds
   
132.04   Violation of audible alarm sound
   
132.05   Alarm users
   
132.06   Alarm system monitoring companies
   
132.07   Security alarm verification process
   
132.08   Unlawful activation or report of alarm
   
132.09   Determination of false alarm; rebuttable presumption
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 132.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners is enacting this chapter to encourage
security alarm users and alarm system monitoring companies to maintain the
operational reliability and proper use of security alarm systems in order to
reduce unnecessary police responses to false alarms.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners finds that false alarms are not only a
public nuisance but also a threat to public safety by diverting limited police
resources from legitimate requests for assistance and other law enforcement
matters.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners intends this chapter to provide for
the health, safety, and welfare of the general public and not to protect
particular individuals or to otherwise designate a particular group of persons
who should be especially affected by the terms of the chapter.
      (2)   The chapter imposes or creates no duties on the part of the town or
its Departments and employees, and the obligation of complying with the
requirements of the chapter and any liability for failure to do so is placed
upon the parties responsible for owning, operating, monitoring, or maintaining
security alarm systems.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to enact this chapter
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-174 and its police powers. The Board of Commissioners
does not intend this chapter to conflict with any state laws that may govern
the licensing of alarm system monitoring companies and false alarms.
(2003 Code, § 9-100)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM MONITORING COMPANY. Any individual, partnership, corporation,
or other form of association that engages in the business of monitoring
security alarm systems and reporting any activation of such alarm systems to
the police.
(2003 Code, § 9-201)
   ALARM USER. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or other form of
association that owns or leases a security alarm system or on whose premises a
security alarm system is maintained for the protection of the premises.
(2003 Code, § 9-202)
   AUTOMATIC DIALING TELEPHONE ALARM. A security alarm system with a device
that automatically dials the Police Department emergency assistance telephone
lines without human activation of the device by the alarm user.
(2003 Code, § 9-203)
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The CHIEF OF POLICE of the Town of Pittsboro and the
Chief’s designee.
(2003 Code, § 9-204)
   DEPARTMENT. The Town of Pittsboro Police Department.
(2003 Code, § 9-205)
   DISPATCH or RESPONSE. A discretionary decision whether to direct police
units to a location where there has been a request, made by whatever means, for
police assistance or investigation. There is no duty to dispatch under any
circumstances, including to answer an alarm signal, and all dispatch decisions
are made subject to competing priorities and available police resources.
(2003 Code, § 9-206)
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting notification to and a response by the
police when there is no evidence of a crime or other activity that warrants a
call for immediate police assistance and no person who was on or near the
property or has viewed a video communication from the property called for the
police dispatch or confirmed the need for police assistance. FALSE ALARM does
not include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user.
(2003 Code, § 9-207)
   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM. Any system, device, or mechanism for the detection
and reporting of any unauthorized entry or attempted entry or property damage
upon premises protected by the system that may be activated by sensors or other
techniques and, when activated, automatically transmits a telephone message or
emits an audible, visible, or electronic signal that can be heard, seen, or
received by persons outside of the protected premises and is intended to summon
police assistance.
(2003 Code, § 9-208)
§ 132.03 AUDIBLE ALARM SOUNDS.
   A security alarm system that emits an audible signal that may be heard
outside of the protected premises shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Audible alarms shall automatically discontinue emitting the audible
sound within ten minutes after activation of the alarm.
(2003 Code, § 9-301)
   (B)   With respect to security alarm systems in existence prior to the
enactment of this chapter that do not comply with division (A) above, the alarm
user shall have 90 days from the enactment of the chapter in which to make the
necessary modifications to the alarm system in order to comply with the
requirement.
(2003 Code, § 9-302)
§ 132.04 VIOLATION OF AUDIBLE ALARM SOUND.
   (A)   The sounding of an audible signal from a security alarm system that
can be heard continuously off the premises for more than ten minutes is a
violation of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § 9-401)
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation of this section that the continuous
sounding of the alarm:
(2003 Code, § 9-402)
      (1)   Assisted in saving a life or avoiding injury;
(2003 Code, § 9-402.1)
      (2)   Was caused by a malfunction of the alarm system equipment without
the alarm user’s prior knowledge of the cause of the malfunction; or
(2003 Code, § 9-402.2)
      (3)   Was activated by an unauthorized entry or criminal activity.
(2003 Code, § 9-402.3)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05 ALARM USERS.
   An alarm user shall:
(2003 Code, § 9-500)
   (A)   Maintain the premises and security alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarms;
(2003 Code, § 9-501)
   (B)   Review all alarm system operating instructions, including those for
verification of an alarm;
(2003 Code, § 9-502)
   (C)   Notify the alarm system monitoring company of a false alarm activation
as soon as the user is aware of the false alarm; and
(2003 Code, § 9-503)
   (D)   Not manually activate an alarm except when needing an immediate police
response to an emergency.
(2003 Code, § 9-504)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06 ALARM SYSTEM MONITORING COMPANIES.
   An alarm system monitoring company engaging in business activities in the
town shall:
   (A)   Obtain all necessary business licenses as required by the town and the
state;
(2003 Code, § 9-601)
   (B)   Maintain a current record, accessible to the Chief of Police at all
times, that includes:
      (1)   The names of the alarm users serviced by the company;
      (2)   The addresses of the protected properties;
      (3)   The type of alarm system, original installation date, and
subsequent modifications, if any, for each protected property; and
      (4)   A record of the false alarms at each property.
(2003 Code, § 9-602)
   (C)   Provide the Chief of Police such information as the Chief requests
regarding:
      (1)   The nature of the company’s security alarms;
      (2)   The company’s method of monitoring the alarms;
      (3)   The company’s program for preventing false alarms, including
educational programs for alarm users; and
      (4)   The company’s method for disconnecting audible alarms;
(2003 Code, § 9-603)
   (D)   Provide each of its alarm system users with:
      (1)   Operating instructions for the alarm system, including an
explanation of the alarm company’s alarm verification process;
      (2)   A telephone number to call for assistance in operating the system;
and
      (3)   A summary of the provisions of this chapter relating to penalties
for false alarms and the possibility of no police response to alarm systems
experiencing excessive false alarms.
(2003 Code, § 9-604)
   (E)   Maintain a verification process, as specified in §
132.07, for all monitored security alarm systems in order to prevent
unnecessary police dispatches resulting from false alarms;
(2003 Code, § 9-605)
   (F)   Communicate requests for police response to the Department in a manner
specified by the Chief;
(2003 Code, § 9-606)
   (G)   Communicate requests for cancellations of police response in a manner
specified by the Chief;
(2003 Code, § 9-607)
   (H)   Maintain a record of all requests for police response to an alarm,
including:
      (1)   The date and time of the alarm and request for police response;
      (2)   The alarm system user’s name and address;
      (3)   Evidence of the company’s attempt to verify the alarm; and
      (4)   To the best of its knowledge, an explanation of the cause of any
false alarm.
(2003 Code, § 9-608)
   (I)   Work cooperatively with the alarm system user and the Chief in order
to determine the cause of any false alarm and to prevent recurrences.
(2003 Code, § 9-609)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.07 SECURITY ALARM VERIFICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   A verification process is an independent method of an alarm system
monitoring company for determining that a signal from a security alarm system
requires immediate police response. The verification process shall not take
more than five minutes, calculated from the time that the alarm company
receives the alarm signal until the alarm company determines whether to request
a police dispatch.
   (B)   The means of verification shall include at least one of the following:
(2003 Code, § 9-700)
      (1)   The establishment of voice communications with the alarm user or a
person authorized by the user at or near the premises with the alarm who may
indicate whether there is an immediate need for police response;
(2003 Code, § 9-701)
      (2)   A feature that permits the alarm user or a person authorized by the
user to send a special signal to the alarm company that will cancel the alarm
immediately after the signal has been sent and prevent the alarm company from
calling the police;
(2003 Code, § 9-702)
      (3)   The installation of a video system that provides the alarm company
when the alarm signal is received with the ability to ascertain whether
activity is occurring that warrants immediate police response;
(2003 Code, § 9-703)
      (4)   A confirmation that an alarm signal reflects a need for immediate
police response from
either the alarm user or a person authorized by the user or an alternate
response agency made before dispatching the police; and/or
(2003 Code, § 9-704)
      (5)   An alternate system that the Chief determines has or is likely to
have a high degree of reliability.
(2003 Code, § 9-705)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.08 UNLAWFUL ACTIVATION OR REPORT OF ALARM.
   (A)   No person shall activate a security alarm system for the purpose of
summoning the police except in the event of an unauthorized entry, robbery, or
other crime being committed or attempted on the premises, or if the person
needs immediate assistance in order to avoid injury or serious bodily harm.
(2003 Code, § 9-801)
   (B)   Any person who shall notify the police of an activated alarm and have
knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other
malfunction shall at the same time notify the police of the apparent
malfunction.
(2003 Code, § 9-802)
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.09 DETERMINATION OF FALSE ALARM; REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, there is a rebuttable presumption that the
following determinations made by the Chief of Police or by a police officer
dispatched to the premises reporting an alarm signal are correct.
   (A)   There is no evidence of a crime or other activity that would warrant a
call for immediate police assistance at the premises.
(2003 Code, § 9-901)
   (B)   No individual who was on or near the premises or who has viewed a
video communication from the premises called for a police dispatch or verified
a need for an immediate police response.
(2003 Code, § 9-902)
   (C)   There is no evidence that violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user caused the
activation of the alarm.
(2003 Code, § 9-903)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   In addition, any incident constituting a violation of the provisions
of this chapter or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50 for each day the violation shall
remain unabated.
   (C)   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within ten days of being
cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town by a civil
action in the nature of a debt.
   (D)   The chapter may also be enforced by appropriate equitable action.
(2003 Code, Chapter 9, Article X)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HOUSING
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   FLOODPLAINS
      
153.   LIGHTING
      
154.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
CHAPTER 150: HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Findings; purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Definitions
   
150.05   Buildings unfit for human habitation declared nuisance
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.20   Duties of Code Enforcement Official
   
150.21   Powers of Code Enforcement Official
   
150.22   [Reserved]
   
150.23   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
150.24   Administrative liability
   
150.25   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.26   Enforcement of responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.27   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.28   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.29   In rem action by Code Enforcement Official; placarding
   
150.30   Costs a lien on premises
   
150.31   Alternative remedies
   
150.32   [Reserved]
   
150.33   Abandoned structures
   
150.34   Unsafe buildings
Minimum Standards of Fitness for Places of Habitation
   
150.45   Compliance with chapter prerequisite to occupancy
   
150.46   Space and use
   
150.47   Light and ventilation
   
150.48   Exit requirements
   
150.49   Plumbing facilities
   
150.50   Heating facilities, ventilation, and air conditioning
   
150.51   Electrical facilities
   
150.52   Structural standards
   
150.53   Property maintenance
   
150.54   Insulation
Minimum Standards Applicable to Rooming Houses
   
150.65   Applicability
   
150.66   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities
   
150.67   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes
   
150.68   Sanitary conditions
   
150.69   Sanitary facilities
Minimum Standards Applicable to Lodging Establishments
   
150.80   Applicability
   
150.81   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities
   
150.82   Interior space dimensions
   
150.83   Sanitary conditions
   
150.84   Sanitary facilities
   
150.85   Means of egress
   
150.86   Fire resistance
 
   
150.99   Violations, penalty
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The rules and regulations prescribed by this chapter shall be known and may
be cited as "The Housing Code" and may be referred to in this chapter as "this
code".
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.02 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town's jurisdiction dwellings which are unfit for human
habitation due to dilapidation; defects increasing the hazard of fire,
accidents and other calamities; lack of ventilation, light and sanitary
facilities; and other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary,
dangerous and detrimental to the welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-200; 160D-202; 160D-903, it is the
purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards and requirements for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation as
expressly authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-1201 through 160D-1212. This section does
not replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction,
repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities, except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The purpose of this chapter is to arrest, remedy and prevent the decay
and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing standards for places of habitation for the
protection of the life, health, safety, welfare and property of the general
public and owners and occupants of places of habitation.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the sections of this chapter
are applicable to all dwellings, rooming houses and lodging establishments
within the jurisdiction of the town regardless of when such units were
constructed, altered, repaired, or improved.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, means a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from one location or position to another; and the term ALTER in its
various moods and tenses and its participle refers to the making of an
alteration.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms occupied or which is intended or
designed to be occupied as the home or residence of one individual, family or
household for housekeeping purposes.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
approved by the inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated
by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, means the maximum
horizontal projected area of the building.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, means the total square
footage of floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by column or walls used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy. The term BUILDING
shall be construed as if followed by the phrase "or part thereof."
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   CLOSE. Securing the building so that unauthorized persons cannot gain
entrance to the building.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated, in writing,
by the Town Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building, leaving the
property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets which may
retain water.
   DETERIORATED.
      (1)   As it applies to dwellings and rooming houses, means that a
dwelling or rooming house is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 65% of its
physical value, as determined by a finding of the inspector.
      (2)   As it applies to lodging establishments, means that a lodging
establishment is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its physical
value, as determined by a finding of the inspector.
   DILAPIDATED.
      (1)   As it applies to dwellings and rooming houses, means that a
dwelling or rooming house is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 65% of its
physical value, as determined by a finding of the inspector.
      (2)   As it applies to lodging establishments, means that a lodging
establishment is unsafe or unfit for human habitation and cannot be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its physical
value, as determined by a finding of the inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith, except that it does not include any manufactured home or mobile
home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the inspector.
   GARBAGE. The byproduct of animal or vegetable foodstuffs resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, or other matter which
is subject to decomposition, decay, putrefaction or the generation of noxious
or offensive gases or odors, or which, during or after decay, may serve as
breeding or feeding material for flies, insects or animals.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Town Board of Commissioners.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room used or intended to be used by one or more persons
for living, eating, or sleeping, but does not include bathrooms, toilet
compartments, laundries, serving and storage pantries, halls, corridors,
basements, and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a place of habitation, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   INSPECTOR. Any person who is authorized by the Code Enforcement Official to
conduct inspections for the purpose of enforcing this chapter.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. Any hotel, motel, inn, tourist home, or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay. For purposes of this chapter, the
term lodging establishment does not include any hotel, motel, inn, tourist
home, or other place providing lodging accommodations for pay that is licensed
or permitted by the state or the Chatham County Department of Public Health
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 130A.
   LODGING UNIT. A room or suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home, or other
place providing lodging accommodations for pay designed for the temporary
housing of paying guests. For purposes of this chapter, a LODGING UNIT does not
include a room in or suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home, or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay designed for the temporary housing of
paying guests that is licensed or permitted by the state or the Chatham County
Department of Public Health pursuant to G.S. Ch. 130A.
   MANUFACTURED HOME AND MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing three or more dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a place of habitation.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units, rooming units or lodging units are let.
   OWNER. Has the meaning specified in G.S. § 160D-1202.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. The same meaning specified in G.S. § 160D-1202.
   PIER. A masonry support extending from the ground and footing to and
supporting the building or portion thereof. Pier sizes and spacing shall
conform to the specifications of the state Building Code.
   PLACE OF HABITATION. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming
unit, lodging establishment or lodging unit.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinders), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
places of habitation or other buildings in the town.
   PUBLIC SPACE. That space within any place of habitation which is open to use
by the general public.
   ROOMING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended for use for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling containing one or more rooming units, in which
space is let by the owner or operator to three or more persons who are not
husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or sister or brother of the
owner or operator.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage. The
term includes paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather,
tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass,
crockery, dust, and the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, provided by, or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   TENANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, occupies
a residential building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy in a building.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a place of habitation
which violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of
fitness, or with one or more of the responsibilities of owners and occupants
established by this chapter.
   Whenever the terms DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT,
LODGING ESTABLISHMENT, LODGING UNIT, PLACE OF HABITATION and PREMISES are used
in this chapter, they shall be construed as though followed by the phrase "or
any part thereof."
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.05 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions of buildings which are used or intended for use as
places of habitation and which are, under this chapter, unfit for human
habitation are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be repaired or
rehabilitated to the standards of this chapter or demolished in accordance with
the procedure set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.20 DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Code Enforcement Official is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers prescribed in this chapter.
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Official to:
   (A)   Investigate the conditions and inspect places of habitation located in
the town in order to determine which places of habitation are unfit for human
habitation and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter
with respect to such places of habitation;
   (B)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those places of habitation that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness prescribed in this chapter;
   (D)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter; and
   (E)   Comply with the conflict of interest standards as required by G.S. §
160D-109.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.21 POWERS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Code Enforcement Official is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be reasonably necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose
and provisions of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to
others granted:
   (A)   Investigate the conditions in the town in order to determine which
places of habitation therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as
he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and
   (E)   Delegate any of his functions and powers under this chapter to other
officers and other agents.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.22 RESERVED.
§ 150.23 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Code Enforcement Official is
hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all
places of habitation and premises after sufficiently identifying himself. The
owner or occupant of every place of habitation, or the person in charge
thereof, shall give the Code Enforcement Official free access to such place of
habitation and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of such
inspection, examination and survey. Every occupant of a place of habitation
shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of
such place of habitation and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.24 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
town officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
duties under this chapter unless he acted with actual malice.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.25 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Generally. The relative responsibilities of the owners, operators and
occupants of places of habitation shall be as follows:
      (1)   Public spaces. Every owner of a building shall be responsible for
maintaining, in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition, the shared or public
spaces of the building and premises thereof.
      (2)   Cleanliness. Every occupant shall be responsible for maintaining,
in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition, that part of the dwelling unit
and premises which he occupies and controls.
      (3)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling or rooming house shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
infesting the dwelling unit or rooming unit provided, however, that the owner
shall be responsible for such extermination if, as a consequence of violations
of the standards of fitness, the dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit is
not reasonably impervious to pests.
      (4)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant shall be responsible for
disposing of his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing
it in adequate facilities for such disposal.
      (5)   Plumbing. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for
providing adequate operable plumbing facilities, including an adequate water
heater, and for maintaining such facilities in efficient operating condition;
every occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in the use
of such facilities and for maintaining such facilities in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (6)   Heating. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for providing
adequate operable facilities and appliances supplying heat throughout the
dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit in compliance with the standards of
fitness; every occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in
the use of such facilities and appliances.
      (7)   Care of premises. No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface or
otherwise impair any of the facilities or equipment of the owner on the
premises which he occupies and controls, or any part of the building itself.
   (B)   Responsibility for violations. Every owner shall remain ultimately
responsible for violations of responsibilities imposed upon him by this chapter
or any other ordinance, although a similar responsibility may also be imposed
upon the occupant and although the occupant may have agreed to bear the
responsibility imposed by ordinance upon the owner.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 ENFORCEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   Upon discovering in any building a condition resulting from noncompliance
with §
150.25, the inspector is hereby authorized to order, to take, or otherwise to
cause to be taken, such remedial action as is necessary to correct such
condition.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Code Enforcement Official by
a public authority or by at least five residents of the town at least 18 years
of age charging that any place of habitation is unfit for human habitation, or
whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement Official, upon inspection, that any
place of habitation is unfit for human habitation, he shall, if his preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such place of habitation a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Code Enforcement Official at a place therein fixed, not less
than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of such complaint. The owner
or any party in interest shall have the right to correct the violation or to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such place of habitation. Any person desiring to do so may attend such
hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the
hearing before the Code Enforcement Official.
      (2)   The owner and parties in interest shall also have the right to file
with the inspector a written statement in a form acceptable to the town
agreeing that the housing referred to in the complaint is unfit for human
habitation, that the same should be demolished, agreeing that the town may have
said housing demolished, and agreeing that the cost of demolition shall be a
lien in the nature of special assessment upon the property. In such cases, the
inspector may proceed with the demolition without complying with the additional
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After the notice and hearing provided for in
division (A), the Code Enforcement Official shall state in writing his
determination whether such place of habitation is unsafe or unfit for human
habitation and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that the place of
habitation is deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in
support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner and parties in interest thereof an order directing and requiring the
owner to repair, alter, and improve such place of habitation to comply with the
minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter within a specified
period of time, not to exceed 90 days. Such order may also direct and require
the owner to vacate and close such place of habitation while such repairs,
alterations and improvements are being made. Upon application by the owner of a
dwelling within the specified period of time, the Code Enforcement Official may
grant extensions of up to one year if such dwelling is occupied by its owner,
or up to 180 days for all other places of habitation, for good cause shown.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that a place of
habitation is dilapidated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact to
support such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner and parties in interest thereof an order directing and requiring the
owner to vacate and close the place of habitation and to remove or demolish the
place of habitation within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days,
unless the owner elects to proceed under the procedures set forth in this
division, or unless an application for an extension of up to 90 days is applied
for by the owner and granted by the Code Enforcement Official for good cause
shown.
      (3)   Within ten days from the date of the order determining that the
building is dilapidated, the owner may notify the Code Enforcement Official in
writing of his intent to make such repairs or alterations to the place of
habitation so as to comply with the minimum standards of fitness. Upon receipt
of an owner's written intent to repair the place of habitation within the time
provided in this division, the Code Enforcement Official shall issue
supplemental order directing the owner to commence and complete the repairs or
alterations necessary to comply with the minimum standards of fitness. The Code
Enforcement Official shall allow a reasonable period of time for the owner to
make such repairs or alterations, but in no event shall the period of time
allowed for such repairs or alterations be less than 30 days nor more than 90
days unless an extension of up to 90 days is granted by the Code Enforcement
Official for good cause shown. Upon application by the owner within the
specified period of time, the Code Enforcement Official may grant extensions of
up to one year for an owner-occupied dwelling, or up to 180 days for all other
places of habitation for good cause shown.
      (4)   If the owner fails to give notice of either an intent to repair as
provided in this division or notice of appeal of the decision of the Code
Enforcement Official to the Board of Adjustment within the time specified for
such an appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall proceed in accordance with
division (C)(l).
      (5)   The Code Enforcement Official shall cause a notice of lis pendens
and a copy of the complaint and notice issued under division (A) and the
findings of fact and order issued under this division to be filed in the notice
of lis pendens in the office of the Clerk of the County Superior Court pursuant
to G.S. § 1-120.2. From the date and time of indexing by the Clerk of Court,
the complaint and notice of hearing or findings of fact and order shall be
binding upon the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in
interest in the place of habitation. A copy of the notice of lis pendens shall
be served upon the owners and parties in interest in the place of habitation at
the time of filing in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1206. The notice of lis
pendens shall remain in full force and effect until it is cancelled. The Code
Enforcement Official shall have the authority to notify the Clerk of Court to
cancel the notice of lis pendens when the Code Enforcement Official determines
that there no longer is a need for the notice to remain in effect.
      (6)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to division (B)(2) that a
dwelling must be vacated and closed or removed or demolished, under this
section, notice of the order shall be given by first class mail to any
organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for such notices. A minimum period of
45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be given before removal or
demolition by action of the Code Enforcement Official, to allow the opportunity
for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs, lease, or
purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing. The Code
Enforcement Official or the Town Clerk shall certify the mailing of the
notices, and the certification shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud.
Only an organization that has filed a written request for such notices may
raise the issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall be
an order requiring the Code Enforcement Official to wait 45 days before causing
removal or demolition.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order. Procedures for the failure to comply
with the order are as follows:
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated place of
habitation shall fail to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official
to repair, alter, or improve the place of habitation within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated place of habitation shall fail to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to vacate and close, and
remove or demolish the place of habitation within the time specified therein,
the Code Enforcement Official may submit to the Town Board of Commissioners, at
its next regular meeting, a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition
the Superior Court for an order directing such owner to comply with the order
of the Code Enforcement Official as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1208.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated place of
habitation, or of a dilapidated place of habitation to comply with an order of
the Code Enforcement Official within the time specified therein, if injunctive
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)
(l), the Code Enforcement Official may submit to the Town Board of
Commissioners an ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to cause such
place of habitation to be repaired, altered, improved or vacated and closed and
removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the Code
Enforcement Official and, pending such removal or demolition, to placard such
place of habitation as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(4), (5), and §
150.29.
      (3)   Civil action to remove occupant. If any occupant fails to comply
with an order to vacate a place of habitation the Code Enforcement Official may
file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such occupant. Such
action shall be filed and conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1203(8).
   (D)   Appeals from order of Code Enforcement Official. An appeal from any
decision of the Code Enforcement Official may be taken by any person aggrieved
thereby. Any appeal from the Code Enforcement Official must be taken within ten
days after the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the Code Enforcement Official and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal that shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the Code Enforcement Official refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to
do any act, the Code Enforcement Official's decision shall remain in force
until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the Code
Enforcement Official requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing of the
Board unless the Code Enforcement Official certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal is made, that, by reason of the fact stated in the
certificate, a copy of which shall be furnished to the appellant and other
parties in interest, a suspension of this requirement would cause imminent
peril to life or property. When the Code Enforcement Official issues such a
certificate, the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining
order which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's
written notice to the Code Enforcement Official by the Board or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1208(f) and division (E). The
Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals and cross
appeals, shall give due notices to all parties in interest and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney and present evidence. The Board may reverse, affirm, wholly or
partly, or modify the decision or order appealed from and may make such
decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter. All Board
meetings shall have a quorum present of at least three members, and the vote of
at least three members shall be required for a decision on an appeal or cross
appeal. The Board shall have the power in passing upon appeals and cross
appeals where there are practical difficulties or hardships to adapt the
application of this chapter to the necessities of the individual case to the
end that the general purposes of the law and justice shall be done. Every
decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings in the nature
of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the service of the decision of the
Board on the person who filed the appeal.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Code Enforcement Official or a decision rendered by the board
shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction
restraining the Code Enforcement Official pending a final disposition of the
cause, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1208(d).
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.28 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified
mail. When service is made by certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order
may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by registered or certified mail, and the Code Enforcement
Official makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or
order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under this chapter. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.29 IN REM ACTION BY CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After the failure of an owner of a place of habitation to comply with
an order of the Code Enforcement Official issued pursuant to this chapter and
upon adoption by the Town Board of Commissioners of an ordinance authorizing
and directing him to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(4)and§
150.27(C), the Code Enforcement Official shall proceed to cause such place of
habitation to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Board of
Commissioners, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such place
of habitation a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for
human habitation, the use or occupation of this building for human habitation
is prohibited and unlawful."
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds in the county wherein the property is located and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index as provided by G.S. 160D-1203
(4).
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.30 COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203(7) and § 6.61 of the Charter, the
amount of the cost of any repairs, alterations, or improvements, or vacating
and closing, or removal or demolition, caused to be made or done by the Code
Enforcement Official pursuant to §§
150.29 or
150.34 shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. § 160A-216 et seq. and § 6.61 of the
Charter.
   (B)   If a dwelling or other structure is removed or demolished by the Code
Enforcement Official, he shall sell the materials of the dwelling or other
structure and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or
attached to the dwelling or other structure and shall credit the proceeds of
the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining
shall be deposited in the superior court by the Code Enforcement Official,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.31 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its sections shall be construed to impair or
limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise. Enforcement by any remedy
provided in this chapter shall not prevent enforcement by any other remedy
provided in this chapter or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.32 RESERVED.
§ 150.33 ABANDONED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any abandoned structure that is a health or safety hazard as a result
of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by
vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities shall be
repaired, closed, or demolished. It shall be unlawful for the owner of an
abandoned structure to allow the abandoned structure to become or to remain a
health or safety hazard as defined in this division.
   (B)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Official shall have the authority to
attempt to accomplish the repair, closing, or demolition of unsafe abandoned
structures through the procedures set out in §
150.27 except that if the estimated cost to repair the structure is 50% or more
of its value, the structure shall be considered dilapidated, and the Code
Enforcement Official shall order that it be demolished and removed.
      (2)   Upon the failure of the owner of an unsafe abandoned structure to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, close, or
demolish such structure, the Code Enforcement Official shall present the matter
to the Town Board of Commissioners. If the Town Board of Commissioners finds
that the abandoned structure is unsafe pursuant to division (A), it may adopt
an ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to cause such abandoned
structure to be repaired, closed, or demolished. Each such ordinance shall be
recorded as provided in §
150.29, and the cost of any repair, closing, or demolition caused to be made by
the Code Enforcement Official shall be a lien on the premises as provided in §
150.30.
   (C)   For purposes of divisions (A) and (B), the term ABANDONED STRUCTURE
shall mean any structure that has not been occupied or used, by its owner or by
some person acting under authority of its owner, for a continuous period of 30
days or longer.
   (D)   If the Town Board of Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or
the Code Enforcement Official shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling
to be repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
150.27(B)(1), and if the owner has vacated and closed such dwelling and kept
such dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the
ordinance or order, if the Town Board of Commissioners shall find that the
owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation and that the
continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical
to the health, safety, morals, and welfare of the town in that the dwelling
would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be
a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in this state, the Town Board of
Commissioners may, after the expiration of such one-year period, enact an
ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then-
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the
then-current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   When it appears to the Code Enforcement Official that a building is
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the powers granted by G.S. §§ 160D-1119
through 160D-1122.
   (B)   Upon the failure by the owner of the affected building to comply with
an order issued under the authority of this section, further enforcement of the
order shall be pursuant to the procedures provided in §§
150.27(C) through (E),
150.29, and
150.30.
   (C)   In addition to other authority granted by this section, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-1119.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR PLACES OF HABITATION
§ 150.45 COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE REQUISITE TO OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Every place of habitation used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness and all of the requirements of this subchapter. No person shall occupy
as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy or use as a human habitation,
any place of habitation which does not comply with all of the minimum standards
of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of this subchapter.
All work shall be done in a workmanlike manner.
   (B)   All structural repairs or alterations to places of habitation and all
new construction of places of habitation shall be performed in compliance with
all applicable requirements of the state Building Code.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.46 SPACE AND USE.
   (A)   At least one room in the dwelling shall contain not less than 150
square feet.
   (B)   A kitchen-dining room combination, if any, shall be not less than 100
square feet.
   (C)   A first bedroom, if any, shall be not less than 100 square feet.
   (D)   A second bedroom, if any, shall be not less than 70 square feet.
   (E)   There shall be at least 70 square feet in each habitable room.
   (F)   There shall be at least 150 square feet of floor space in habitable
rooms for the first occupant in each dwelling unit; at least 100 square feet
for each additional occupant each of the next three occupants; and at least 50
square feet for each additional occupant over the number of four. (Children one
year of age and under shall not be counted.)
   (G)   There shall be at least 80 square feet of bedroom floor space for the
first occupant; at least 20 square feet for the second occupant; and at least
30 square feet for each additional occupant over the number of two. (Children
one year of age and under shall not be counted.)
   (H)   The provisions of divisions (A) through (G) shall not apply to lodging
establishments. If the Code Enforcement Official determines, in his sole
discretion, that the occupancy of a habitable room in a lodging establishment
is such that it contributes to an unsafe and unsanitary condition of the
habitable room, then such lodging establishment shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (I)   Those habitable rooms which must be included to meet the foregoing
minimum space requirements shall be at least seven feet wide in any part with
at least one-half of the floor area having a ceiling height as prescribed by
the state building code. Not more than 50% of the required area may have a
sloped ceiling less than the height prescribed by the state building code with
no portion of the required areas less than five feet in height. If any room has
a furred ceiling, the prescribed ceiling height is required for at least 50% of
the area thereof, but in no case shall the height of the furred ceiling be less
than that prescribed by the state Building Code.
   (J)   No basement shall be used as a habitable room or housing unit unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness and condensation.
      (2)   The total window area in each room is equal to at least the window
area sizes prescribed for habitable rooms. (See §
150.47 for light and ventilation requirements).
      (3)   Such required window area is located entirely above the grade of
the ground adjoining such window area unless provided with adequate window
wells.
      (4)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the area prescribed for habitable rooms (see §
150.47 for light and ventilation requirements), except where there is supplied
some other device affording adequate ventilation and approved by the inspector.
   (K)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be enclosed.
   (L)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks in walls, ceilings,
outside doors or outside windows.
   (M)   Access shall be provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit without
passing through a public space.
   (N)   Doors shall be provided at all doorways leading to bedrooms, toilet
rooms, and bathrooms and all rooms adjoining a public space. All interior doors
and hardware shall be in good condition, and free from defects or damage which
prevents the door from operating as intended.
   (O)   All doors providing access to any place of habitation shall have
operable locks, and, in the case of dwellings and dwelling units, the owner or
operator shall provide a change of locks or keys for new tenants.
   (P)   All doors opening to the outside shall be reasonably weathertight.
   (Q)   There shall be installed in every dwelling unit, rooming unit and
lodging unit an operable smoke detector or alarm.
   (R)   Every dwelling and rooming house shall comply with the current county
health regulations governing carbon monoxide alarms.
(Ord., passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.47 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   The window-glazed area in each habitable room of a dwelling or
dwelling unit shall not be less than 8% of the floor area or eight square feet,
whichever is greater.
   (B)   The openable window area in each habitable room in a dwelling shall be
equal to at least one-half of the minimum allowance window area and facing
directly to the outside for ventilation unless the room is served by an
approved ventilating system.
   (C)   All windows and doors opening to the outside shall be adequately
screened unless the room is served by an approved ventilating system. Screens
shall fit openings snugly, and the screen mesh shall not be torn or otherwise
defective.
   (D)   Screens shall not be permanently fixed to the window frame or sash.
   (E)   In bathrooms containing more than one water closet, the window area
shall be at least three square feet of glazed area. Where adequate windows
cannot be provided, metal ducts with at least 72 square inches in open area and
extending from the ceiling through the roof, or mechanical ventilation to the
outside, shall be provided.
   (F)   Every public hall and inside stairway in every multifamily dwelling or
place of habitation shall be adequately lighted at all times with an
illumination of at least three footcandles per square foot in the darkest
portion of the normally traveled stairs and passageways.
   (G)   All windows and doors in dwellings and rooming houses opening to the
outside shall be reasonably weathertight, free of cracked or broken glass, and
shall have operable locks. If the windows in a lodging establishment are
designed to open to the outside, such windows shall be reasonably weathertight
and shall have operable locks. Any glazed area shall be glass.
   (H)   Window bars, grills, or other impediments to escape in case of fire
shall not be permitted at habitable room windows, except as permitted by the
state building code.
   (I)   Kitchen exhaust equipment shall be operable, maintained, and vented to
the exterior. Ductless range hoods are not required to be vented to the
exterior.
   (J)   Clothes dryer vents and ducts shall terminate on the exterior where
possible. Screens of a type that may trap lint shall not be installed at the
termination. All ductwork shall be properly supported and free of obstructions
which impede air flow.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.48 EXIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be two main exits, each at least 30 inches wide and six
feet eight inches high, easily accessible to the occupants of each dwelling or
dwelling unit. All exit doors must be easily operable and remotely located.
(See the state Building Code for exemptions).
   (B)   Platforms, steps, and/or handrails provided to serve exits shall be
maintained in safe condition.
   (C)   There shall be a safe, continuous and unobstructed exit from the
interior of the building to the exterior at street or grade level.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.49 PLUMBING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All plumbing to be installed shall be installed in accordance with the
state Building Code.
   (B)   All plumbing shall be connected to the town sanitary sewer system
where available or to another approved system.
   (C)   All fixtures shall be operable.
   (D)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
   (E)   Water closets shall not be loose or leaking. Water closet flush
mechanisms shall be maintained in operating condition.
   (F)   No leaks shall be in a shower stall floor and/or wall.
   (G)   There shall be facilities for furnishing adequate hot water to each
tub or shower, lavatory, and kitchen sink. All water heaters shall be in good
condition, operate as intended, and comply with the current state Building Code
and the requirements of the home inspector licensure board for water
temperature and flow.
   (H)   There shall be installed a potable water supply inside the building
for each dwelling unit.
   (I)   There shall be installed a water closet, tub or shower, lavatory and
sink for each dwelling unit. The kitchen sink shall be at least 12 inches by 16
inches by six inches. Kitchen and bathroom faucets shall be sealed to prevent
leakage.
   (J)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each dwelling unit.
   (K)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be protected from the weather.
   (L)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
installation in protected space.
   (M)   Soil and water pipes shall be supported with no broken or leaking
pipes.
   (N)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit such floor to be readily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (O)   A lodging unit shall not be required to have a kitchen sink, but if
such lodging unit contains a kitchen sink it shall meet the requirements of
this section.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.50 HEATING FACILITIES, VENTILATION, AND AIR CONDITIONING.
   (A)   Every building and every dwelling unit shall be weatherproof and
capable of being adequately heated, and the heating equipment in every dwelling
or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good order and repair.
   (B)   Every place of habitation shall have facilities for providing heat in
accordance with either of the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every place of habitation to
which it is connected to a minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit
measured at a point three feet above the floor with an outside temperature of
20 degrees Fahrenheit.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, or is inadequate, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall
be provided with sufficient chimneys flues, or gas vents, with heating
appliances connected, so as to heat all habitable rooms to a minimum
temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit measured three feet above the floor with
an outside temperature of 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
   (C)   All electric, gas and oil heating equipment installed on the premises
shall be listed by Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or American Gas
Association and installed in accordance with the provisions of the state
Heating Code.
   (D)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
   (E)   There shall be no holes in flues.
   (F)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
   (G)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
   (H)   Thimbles shall not be broken or cracked.
   (I)   Thimbles shall be high enough for the stovepipe to rise one-quarter
inch per foot minimum.
   (J)   The hearth shall be at least 16 inches deep and eight inches beyond
each side of the fireplace opening.
   (K)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top and
seven inches of either side of the fireplace opening.
   (L)   Fireplaces shall be closed with masonry when the chimney is used as a
flue for a stove.
   (M)   A stove shall be within six feet of a thimble serving it.
   (N)   No combustible material shall be within 12 inches of a stovepipe.
   (O)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
   (P)   In multiple dwellings and rooming houses with central heat, the
furnace room shall be enclosed with material having at least a one-hour fire
protection rating.
   (Q)   Fireplaces, freestanding kerosene heaters, freestanding electric space
heaters, and vent free gas appliances may be used for supplementary heating
only and not for basic heat.
   (R)   When air conditioning or cooling facilities are provided, such
facilities and components shall be properly installed, safely operable, and
maintained to perform as originally intended.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   In places of habitation, no receptacles, ceiling fixtures, or other
fixtures shall be hanging loose.
   (B)   All switches and receptacles shall be safely operable.
   (C)   Every habitable room shall contain not less than two wall-type
electrical convenience receptacles.
   (D)   There shall be installed in every habitable room, bathroom, laundry
room, hallway, stairway and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-
type electrical light fixture; provided, further, that the ceiling light
fixture may be omitted in the living room and bedrooms, provided three
electrical convenience receptacles are installed, one of which is controlled
from a wall switch.
   (E)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
   (F)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length.
   (G)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
   (H)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
   (I)   All wiring to be installed shall be in accordance with the National
Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52 STRUCTURAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Foundation. Foundations shall conform to the following:
      (1)   Beneath the building there shall be firm ground, which is
reasonably dry, properly drained and no water running under the building.
      (2)   There shall be sound footings, adequate bearing.
      (3)   There shall be sound piers, no loose mortar or masonry.
      (4)   There shall be no piers in which the plumbline from the top center
falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
      (5)   There shall be no isolated solid masonry piers exceeding in height
ten times the least dimension of the pier.
      (6)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (7)   There shall be masonry underpinning on all dwelling units with
ventilation as required by the state Building Code.
      (8)   All masonry block and brick foundation systems or components shall
have mortared or bonded joints.
      (9)   Every crawlspace door, doorway, or hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rainwater and surface drainage water.
      (10)   Screening shall be provided for all crawlspace vents or openings.
   (B)   Floors. Floors shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no decayed, termite- damaged, fire-damaged, broken,
overloaded or sagging sills.
      (2)   Sills shall be properly supported and reasonably level.
      (3)   Joists and beams shall not be overloaded, sagging or broken and
shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural weakness in the
future.
      (4)   Maximum spans for floor joist, beams and sills, providing they show
signs of being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the
state Building Code.
      (5)   Flooring shall be weathertight without holes or excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms.
      (6)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and not decayed, fire damaged
or worn through.
      (7)   There shall be no loose flooring.
      (8)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
      (9)   Floor covering or finishing shall be reasonably smooth,
weathertight, and not worn through.
   (C)   Exterior walls. Exterior walls shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no wall in which the plumbline from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the state Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be weathertight, with no holes or excessive cracks
or decayed boards, or siding material which permit air to penetrate rooms.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventive
maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing, and repair.
   (D)   Interior walls. Interior walls shall conform to the following:
      (1)   Interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks which
permit air to penetrate rooms and, if painted or papered, shall be free of
chips or excessive peeling.
      (2)   There shall be no walls in which the plumbline from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (3)   Interior wall finishes and trim shall be free of stains or moisture
damage caused by leaks from roofing, or other sources.
      (4)   There shall be no loose plaster, loose boards, or other loose wall
materials.
      (5)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or highly combustible or
improper wall finish; all wall materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (6)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the state Building
Code.
      (7)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (8)   There shall be no broken or cracked studs or other structural
members.
   (E)   Ceilings. Ceilings shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no joists, or beams which are decayed, broken,
sagging, or improperly supported at the ends.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
sagging and being weak, shall comply with the requirements of the state
Building Code.
      (3)   Maximum spans for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the state
Building Code.
      (4)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air and
dust to penetrate rooms.
      (5)   Interior ceiling finishes and trim shall be free of stains or
moisture damage caused by leaks from roofing, or other sources.
      (6)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, gypsum wallboard, or other
ceiling finish.
      (7)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper, highly combustible or
improper ceiling finish; all ceiling materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (8)   Ceiling joists, and beams shall be structurally sound and not
likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
   (F)   Roofs. Roofs shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no rafters or framing members which are decayed,
broken, improperly supported at the ends, or likely to cause structural
weakness in the future,
      (2)   No rafters shall be seriously damaged by fire.
      (3)   Rafters shall be properly braced and tied four feet on center
maximum.
      (4)   The attic shall be ventilated as required by the state Building
Code.
      (5)   Sheathing shall not be loose and shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (6)   There shall be no loose roof covering, no holes, and no leaks
causing damage to the structure or rooms.
      (7)   There shall be a minimum of Class C roof covering.
      (8)   There shall be proper flashing at walls or chimneys, and roof
penetrations
      (9)   The roof shall be sound, tight, and have no defects that admit
water.
      (10)   Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or
deterioration at the walls or interior of the structure. Roof drains, gutters,
down spouts and leaders shall be maintained free of obstructions, and designed
to discharge water away from the structure.
   (G)   Porches. Porches shall conform to the following:
      (1)   The floor, ceiling, and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this section, except sills, joists, and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weathertight; the ceiling
height may be seven feet; and the attic need not be vented.
      (2)   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform 30 inches or more above
the adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with railings or guards not less
than 36 inches high, unless other effective barriers provide adequate safety.
Guard opening limitations shall conform to the requirements of the state
Building Code.
      (3)   If post and railings are provided, they shall be structurally sound
and not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
   (H)   Stairs and steps. Stairs and steps shall conform to the following:
      (1)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves, and cracks large
enough to constitute accident hazards.
      (2)   Stairwells and flights of stairs more than four risers high shall
have rails not less than two feet six inches measured vertically from the nose
of the treads to the top of the rail.
      (3)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
      (4)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of its
intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
      (5)   Supports shall not sag and shall be structurally sound and not
likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (6)   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform in height, and treads
shall be reasonably uniform in front to back width, sound and securely fastened
in position and strong enough to bear a concentrated load of at least 300
pounds without danger of breaking through.
      (7)   Every exit stairway, deck porch, landing, balcony, exit, and all
appurtenances shall be structurally sound with proper anchorage, and capable of
supporting imposed loads.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.53 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Building structure. The building structure of a place of habitation
shall be maintained as follows :
      (1)   Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant to deterioration
shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other suitable
preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Floors, walls, ceilings, and fixtures shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Open areas. Open areas shall be maintained as follows:
      (1)   Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to
protect buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant ponds.
      (2)   Fences and other accessory buildings shall be maintained in safe
and substantial condition or demolished.
      (3)   Yards and courts shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards,
rubbish, trash, garbage, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and other similar
material.
      (4)   There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of plant growth
which is noxious or detrimental to health.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and
methods used for the storage, handling, and disposal of garbage and rubbish.
   (E)   Kitchen and bathroom countertops and cabinets shall be covered by
nonabsorbent material and maintained so as to easily be kept clean and in
sanitary condition.
   (F)   All kitchen and bathroom cabinet doors and drawers shall operate as
intended.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54 INSULATION.
   Every dwelling, including multiple dwellings, of three stories or less in
height, shall have installed in the ceiling or, for a dwelling of more than one
story, in the ceiling of the top story, insulation to a minimum-resistance
value of R-19. Except as specified in this section, the insulation shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements of the state Building Code.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES
§ 150.65 APPLICABILITY.
   All of the sections of this chapter and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to rooming houses and to every
person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another for
occupancy any rooming unit in a rooming house, except as provided in the
following sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.66 WATER CLOSET, HAND LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES.
   At least one water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly
connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working condition,
shall be supplied for each four rooming units within a rooming house whenever
such facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located within the
residence building served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall
or passageway and shall be not more than one story removed from any of the
persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. Such required
facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.67 MINIMUM FLOOR AREA FOR SLEEPING PURPOSES.
   Every room in a rooming house occupied by one occupant shall contain at
least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of
floor area for each additional occupant 12 years of age and over and at least
35 square feet of floor area for each additional occupant under 12 years of
age.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.68 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary maintenance
of every other part of the rooming house. The operator shall be further
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where the
entire structure or building within which the rooming house is contained is
leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.69 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower
required by §
150.66 shall be located within the rooming house and within a room which
affords privacy and is separate from the habitable rooms, and which is
accessible from a common hall and without going outside the rooming house or
through any other room therein.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 150.80 APPLICABILITY.
   All of the sections of this chapter and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to lodging establishments and
to every person who operates a lodging establishment or who occupies or lets to
another for occupancy any lodging unit, except as provided in the following
sections of this subchapter, or as expressly otherwise excluded in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 150.81 WATER CLOSET, HAND LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES.
   At least one water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly
connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working condition,
shall be supplied for each lodging unit. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.82 INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   Interior space dimensions shall comply with all applicable requirements of
the state Building Code.
(Ord., passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.83 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every lodging establishment shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the lodging establishment. The operator
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the lodging
establishment is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.84 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower
required by §
150.49 shall be located within a room which affords privacy and is separate
from the habitable room, and which is accessible from a common hall and without
going outside the hotel/motel room.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.85 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   Means of egress shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
state Building Code.
   (B)   Deadbolt locks, if any, on exterior doors shall be operable from the
exterior by the use of a key, card, or combination and from the inside by a
knob or lever without the use of a key, card, or combination or special
knowledge or effort to operate; no person shall install a deadbolt lock on a
hotel room or motel room door that does not comply with all applicable laws.
   (C)   There shall be conspicuously displayed immediately adjacent to or on
the inside of every exit door from a sleeping room, a diagram depicting two
evacuation routes.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.86 FIRE RESISTANCE.
   Walls, floors, ceilings, doors and windows shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the state Building Code if damaged or constructed of highly
flammable material.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any place of habitation to fail,
neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the place of habitation or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the place of habitation, upon order of
the Code Enforcement Official duly made and served as provided in this chapter,
within the time specified in such order; each day that any such failure,
neglect or refusal to comply with such order continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any place
of habitation, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.27(B), to occupy or permit the occupancy of the place of habitation after
the time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or
its vacation and closing, and removal or demolition, and each day that such
occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   Any owner of a:
      (1)   Dwelling, except an owner who occupies the dwelling as his
principal place of residence; or
      (2)   Rooming house, except when the owner resides in the rooming house,
who fails to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair,
alter or improve the dwelling or rooming house or to vacate and close and
remove or demolish the dwelling or rooming house within the time specified in
the order, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 for the
first day of noncompliance and $100 for each day thereafter until the dwelling
is brought into compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered
by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay
the penalty within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
   (C)   Any owner of a lodging establishment who fails to comply with an order
of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, alter or improve the lodging
establishment, within the time specified in the order, shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $1,000 for the first day of noncompliance and
$100 for each day thereafter until the lodging establishment is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Official in his discretion may agree, in writing
only, to release, in whole or in part, an owner from liability for the civil
penalty imposed pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) if the owner voluntarily
agrees, as consideration for the release, to convey to the town, or to some
other person or organization, the property from which the civil penalty arose
upon such terms and conditions as the owner and the Code Enforcement Official
might agree.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation that is
imminently dangerous to health or safety to collect rent from another person
who occupied the place of habitation at the time it became imminently dangerous
to health or safety or to permit any other person to begin occupancy of such
place of habitation. A place of habitation is imminently dangerous to health or
safety if it is in violation of any one of the following minimum standards of
fitness.
      (1)   Rotted, fire damaged, or insect damaged steps, flooring, or
structural supports, as provided in §§
150.48(B) and
150.52(B)(1).
      (2)   Fire hazard in a chimney that is in use, as provided in§
150.50.
      (3)   Unsafe wiring, as provided in §
150.51(E).
      (4)   Unsafe ceiling or roof, as provided in §§
150.52(E)(1),
150.52(E)(7),
150.52(F)(1), and
150.52(F)(5)
      (5)   No potable water supply, as provided in §
150.49(H).
      (6)   No operable heating equipment, as required by §
150.50(B), during November, December, January, February, or March.
      (7)   No operable sanitary facilities, as provided in §§
150.49(I) and
150.49(J).
      (8)   Severe rat infestation where the place of habitation is not
impervious to pests, as provided in §
150.53(C).
      (9)   No safe, continuous, and unobstructed exit from the interior of the
building to the exterior at street or grade level, as provided in §
150.48(C).
      (10)   No access provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit without
passing through a public space, as provided in §
150.46(M).
      (11)   Any window or door providing access to any dwelling unit or
rooming unit lacking an operable lock or the owner failing to provide a change
of locks or keys to a new tenant of such dwelling unit or rooming unit, as
provided in §§
150.46(O) and
150.47(G).
      (12)   No operable smoke detector or alarm, as provided in §
150.46(Q).
      (13)   Every place of habitation shall comply with the current county
health regulations governing carbon monoxide alarms, (as provided in §
150.46(R)).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
received a complaint and notice authorized by §
150.27(C) with regard to the place of habitation, or has gained knowledge by
other means that the Code Enforcement Official has issued such a complaint and
notice regarding the place of habitation to permit another person, other than a
person who occupied the place of habitation at the time of the issuance of the
complaint and notice, to occupy the place of habitation without first informing
such person, in writing, of the issuance of the complaint and notice and
providing him with a copy of such complaint and notice.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
received a final code enforcement order, after all periods for appeal to the
Board of Adjustment and petitions to the court have expired pursuant to §
150.27, to fail to comply with such order. However, with respect to an order to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the place of habitation, no civil
penalty shall accrue, notwithstanding divisions (B) and (C), nor shall any
criminal liability attach until 30 days following the relocation of the
occupants of the places of habitation.
   (H)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, any person
who violates divisions (E), (G), or (H) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as provided in § 2-21. Except as provided in this division,
there shall not be any criminal liability for violation of any section of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Naming of Private Drives
   
151.01   Naming procedure
   
151.02   Petitions
   
151.03   Signs
Numbering System
   
151.15   Lots numbered
   
151.16   Baselines
   
151.17   Numbering procedure
   
151.18   Designation of streets
   
151.19   Fixing numbers
   
151.20   Numbers required
   
151.21   Style and number
Driveway Entrances
   
151.35   Permit required
   
151.36   Construction requirements
   
151.37   Permit application
   
151.38   Disclosure of use in permit application
   
151.39   Issuance of permits
Driveway Permits Required in All Areas Zoned Commercial
   
151.50   Exemption
   
151.51   Approval and disapproval
   
151.52   Site plan required
   
151.53   Fee
Openings, Structures, Pipes, Trees; Permits
   
151.65   Regulating structures
   
151.66   Regulating interference with streets
   
151.67   Issuance of permits
   
151.68   Interfering with streets without a permit
NAMING OF PRIVATE DRIVES
§ 151.01 NAMING PROCEDURE.
   All private drives will be named according to the following procedure.
(2003 Code, § 23-100)
   (A)   All private roads accessing three or more buildings shall be named in
order to conform to the requirements of the Enhanced-911 program.
(2003 Code, § 13-101)
   (B)   Private roads or driveways, including mobile home park roads, which
require naming shall have the name reviewed by the Planning Board and approved
by the Board of Commissioners.
(2003 Code, § 23-102)
§ 151.02 PETITIONS.
   A petition containing the proposed road name, names of adjacent property
owners, and the signatures of no less than 60% of the adjacent property owners
along the road shall be submitted.
(2003 Code, § 23-103)
§ 151.03 SIGNS.
   Signs shall be blue in color and erected at the expense of owner(s).
(2003 Code, § 23-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 151.15 LOTS NUMBERED.
   All buildings or other property abutting upon any street or avenue within
the town shall be numbered under a uniform grid system. The number shall be
secured from the county’s E-911 Coordinator.
(2003 Code, § 23-201) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 BASELINES.
   U.S. Highway 15-501 shall constitute the baseline for all numbering on
streets running north and south, and U.S. Highway 64 shall constitute the
baseline for all numbering on streets running east and west.
(2003 Code, § 23-202)
§ 151.17 NUMBERING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Buildings fronting streets from the north and east shall bear even
numbers in the last digit. Buildings fronting streets from the south and west
shall bear odd numbers in their last digit.
   (B)   Buildings fronting streets running east and west shall be numbered
from the baseline of U.S. Highway 15-501 and buildings fronting on streets
running north and south shall be numbered from the baseline of U.S. Highway 64,
such numbers being zero at the intersection of the respective baselines.
   (C)   The unit for determining the last digit of the number to be assigned
hereunder shall be deemed to be 50 feet of frontage, except where lots vary in
width, such lots shall be numbered to conform to the size of the lot.
   (D)   From the corner of each grid block nearest the respective baseline,
each unit of frontage, as specified herein, shall be assigned a number.
(2003 Code, § 23-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 DESIGNATION OF STREETS.
   All lots or parts of lots, houses, and buildings located on those portions
of any street extending north and south and being north of the U.S. Highway 64
baseline shall be known and designated as “north” and all those such lots,
houses, and buildings located south of the U.S. Highway 64 baseline shall be
known and designated as “south;” all those lots, houses, and buildings abutting
on any street extending east and west, and being east of the U.S. Highway 15-
501 baseline shall be known and designated as “east;” and all those such lots,
houses, and buildings abutting any street extending west of the U.S. Highway
15-501 baseline shall be known and designated as “west.”
(2003 Code, § 23-204) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 FIXING NUMBERS.
   In cases of doubt or where a question arises as to the property street
number to be assigned to any lot or building, the Town Manager shall decide the
question and assign the number of such lot or building in accordance with the
E-911 numbering system.
(2003 Code, § 23-205)
§ 151.20 NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   On buildings now or hereafter erected and fronting on any street within the
town, there shall be conspicuously placed the number of such building or
structure as provided by this subchapter.
(2003 Code, § 23-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 STYLE AND NUMBER.
   (A)   The number plate placed upon any building or structure, required
hereunder, shall be metal or other durable material.
   (B)   The number shall be at least three inches in height and so placed as
to be easily seen from the street upon which the structure fronts.
(2003 Code, § 23-207) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES
§ 151.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be secured from the town prior to the construction of
any new access or the alteration of any existing access within the right-of-
way of a street maintained by the town or any street or road maintained by the
state within the extra territorial jurisdiction of the town; provided, however,
permits for single-family residences are required only where access connections
involve a public safety hazard or at locations involving a street construction
project.
   (B)   A new permit shall also be required prior to the change or alteration
of the existing use of property. Failure to secure a permit prior to
construction or change in the use of the property may result in the removal of
the driveway or street connection at the property owner’s expense.
(2003 Code, § 23-301)
§ 151.36 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All access, driveway entrances, and other openings onto streets within
the jurisdiction hereof shall be constructed so that:
(2003 Code, § 23-302)
      (1)   Vehicles can enter and exit from the lot in question without posing
substantial danger to themselves, pedestrians, or vehicles traveling in
abutting streets;
(2003 Code, § 23-302.1)
      (2)   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic on
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized; and
(2003 Code, § 23-302.2)
      (3)   Damages to abutting streets caused by construction shall be
repaired.
(2003 Code, § 23-302.3)
   (B)   (1)   Specifications for driveway entrances are set forth in _____
incorporated herein by reference. If driveway entrances and other openings onto
streets are constructed in accordance with the foregoing specifications and
requirements, this shall be deemed prima facie evidence of compliance with the
standards set forth in division (A) above.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the term PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE
means that the town may, but is not required to, conclude from this evidence
alone that the proposed development complies with division (A) above.
(2003 Code, § 23-303)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.37 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application to the town for a street and driveway access permit shall be
made on a form provided by the town. All required signatures or seals of
approval shall be shown on the permit application prior to submission. Fees
established by the town shall be paid upon submission of a signed permit
application.
(2003 Code, § 23-304) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.38 DISCLOSURE OF USE IN PERMIT APPLICATION.
   All applications for a permit shall disclose the present and proposed use of
the property for which access is requested. Any intended use of the access in
conjunction with any adjacent property, whether owned by the applicant or by
others, or to be purchased or sold by the applicant or others, shall be
disclosed in the application.
(2003 Code, § 23-305) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.39 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued by the Town Manager or his or her designee
upon compliance with the terms hereof. Adequate security to assure compliance
with this subchapter may be required prior to issuance of a permit. Appeals
from any final decision of the permit-issuing officer shall be to the town’s
Board of Adjustment by any person aggrieved.
(2003 Code, § 23-306)
DRIVEWAY PERMITS REQUIRED IN ALL AREAS ZONED COMMERCIAL
§ 151.50 EXEMPTION.
   This chapter is not applicable to state highways where permits are
controlled by the Department of Transportation.
(2003 Code, § 23-401)
§ 151.51 APPROVAL AND DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   The permit application shall be obtained from the Town Manager.
Approval or disapproval will be by the Commissioners of the town.
(2003 Code, § 23-402)
   (B)   Approval or disapproval shall be based on the public safety, health,
and general welfare of our citizens using North Carolina Department of
Transportation (“NCDOT”) guidelines as suggestions.
(2003 Code, § 23-403)
§ 151.52 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   A site plan of any proposed driveway(s) will be attached to any permit.
(2003 Code, § 23-404)
§ 151.53 FEE.
   A fee established by the Board of Commissioners shall be charged for
consideration of a permit one-half of said fee will be returned if permit is
rejected.
(2003 Code, § 23-405)
OPENINGS, STRUCTURES, PIPES, TREES; PERMITS
§ 151.65 REGULATING STRUCTURES.
   No opening or other interference whatsoever shall be made in any street
maintained by the town nor shall any structure be placed thereon nor shall any
structure which has been placed thereon be changed or removed except in
accordance with a written permit from the town or its duly authorized officers,
who shall exercise complete and permanent control over such roads and highways.
(2003 Code, § 23-501) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.66 REGULATING INTERFERENCE WITH STREETS.
   No town street shall be dug up for laying or placing pipes, conduits,
sewers, wires, railways, or other objects, and no tree or shrub in or on any
town street shall be planted or removed, and no obstruction placed thereon,
without a written permit as hereinbefore provided for, and then only in
accordance with the regulations of said town or its duly authorized officers or
employees; and the work shall be under the supervision and to the satisfaction
of the town or its officers or employees, and the entire expense of replacing
the street in as good condition as before shall be paid by the persons, firms,
or corporations to whom the permit is given, or by whom the work is done.
(2003 Code, § 23-502) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.67 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The town or its duly authorized officers may, in its discretion, before
granting a permit under the provisions of this subchapter, require the
applicant to file a satisfactory bond, payable to the town in such an amount as
may be deemed sufficient by the town or its duly authorized officers,
conditioned upon the proper compliance with the requirements of this subchapter
by the person, firm, or corporation granted such permit.
(2003 Code, § 23-503)
§ 151.68 INTERFERING WITH STREETS WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person making any opening in a town street, or placing any
structure thereon, or changing or removing any structure thereon without
obtaining a written permit as herein provided, or not in compliance with the
terms of such permit, or otherwise violating the provisions of this subchapter,
shall be guilty of a Class I misdemeanor.
   (B)   Provided this subchapter shall not apply to railroad crossings. The
railroads shall keep up said crossings as now provided by law.
(2003 Code, § 23-504)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAINS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Arrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.13   Effect on rights and liability under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
152.14   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.27   Corrective procedures
   
152.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   Construction within floodways, non-encroachment areas, and floodplains
restricted
   
152.41   Special provisions for subdivisions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, part 6 (being
G.S. §§ 143-215.51 to 143-215.61); Ch. 160A, Art. 19, parts 3, 5, and 8 (being
G.S. §§ 160A-381 to 160A-394, 160A-411 to 160A-440, and 160A-456 to 160A-459.1,
respectively); and Ch. 160A, Art. 8 (being G.S. §§ 160A-174 to 160A-205.3)
delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners does hereby ordain as follows
in §
152.02.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 1, § A)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which may result in the loss of life, property, health, and safety hazards;
disruption of commerce and governmental services; extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief; and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 1, § B)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and the
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights, or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 1, § C)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize the expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding which are generally undertaken at the public expense;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruption;
   (E)   Minimize losses to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 1, § D)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure which is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports, and
storage sheds are common accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds, and the
like qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms or in agricultural districts and
may or may not be located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop
building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to three feet.
These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a building having its floor subgrade on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination as published in the flood
insurance study of the water surface elevations of the base flood. This
elevation, when combined with the FREEBOARD, establishes the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures; mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations; or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), means the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of it may
enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or discharged into any waters,
including groundwater.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its reference level
raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, pilings, or
columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures, or development into a floodplain which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by the town.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
an source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency on which the special flood hazard areas and
the floodways are delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be
used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on which both the special flood hazard area and the
risk premium zones applicable to the town are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazard areas, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood insurance risk zones, and other flood data issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT regulations, and open
space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate risk of flood
damage to real estate or improved real property, water, and sanitation
facilities, or structures with their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order for discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
watershed development as well as limitations of the engineering methodologies
for the determination of flood elevations. The FREEBOARD plus the base flood
elevation establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. A facility for the collection, storage,
processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste as
defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminary determined by the Secretary of Interior as
contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program;” or
      (4)   (a)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.”
         (b)   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAMS are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources through the state’s Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservations Act of 1966, as
amended in 1980, being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk, or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building. For Zones A and AO, use the natural grade prior to construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The subfloor, top of slab, or grade of the lowest enclosed
area (including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR,
provided that such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in
violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable on one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreation vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land value and that of any
accessory structures or other improvements on the lot, established by
independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of
building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or adjusted tax
assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purpose of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of this chapter and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR DEVELOPMENT. Any legally existing building or
development which fails to comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development which started on or after the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development which started before the
effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Not designed for use as a permanent primary dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The portion of a structure or other development that must
be compared to the regulatory flood protection elevation to determine
regulatory compliance. For structures within special flood hazard areas
designated as Zones A1, A30, AE, A, A99, or AO, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the top
of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation, in relation to mean
sea level, which the reference level of all structures and other development
located within special flood areas must be protected. Where base flood
elevations (BFEs) have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus
two feet of freeboard. Where no BFE has been established, this elevation shall
be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter, or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances, and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), means any
place at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill,
or any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any year as determined in §
152.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first permanent construction of a structure (including a
manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground. For floodplain management
purposes, principally above ground means that at least 51% of the actual cash
value of the STRUCTURE is above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damage condition would exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. (See definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.) SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE also means flood related damage sustained by a structure on two separate
occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of
the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure before the start
of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure a continued designation as a historic
structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.13, 152.14, 152.25 through 152.28, 152.40, and 152.41 presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level
(existing grade in case of Zone AO), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 2)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) of the town.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 3, § A)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   (1)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or produced under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its Flood Hazard
Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood
maps as the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRM) and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map(s) (FBFM), for the town, dated February 2, 2007, which, with
accompanying supporting data and any revision thereto, including letters of map
amendment or revision, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
      (2)   The special flood hazard areas also include those defined through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by governmental
agencies, but which have not yet been incorporated in the FIRM.
   (B)   This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Detailed flood data generated as a requirement of §
152.26(K) and (L);
      (2)   Preliminary FIRMs where more stringent than the effective FIRM;
and/or
      (3)   Post-disaster flood recovery maps.
(2003 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 3, § B)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas, as determined in §
152.07.
(2003 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 3, § C)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(2003 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 3, § D) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ARROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(2003 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 3, § E)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statues.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 3, § F)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by protection by this chapter
is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 3, § G)
§ 152.13 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITY UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention chapter enacted in 2007, as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
   (B)   All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of the town
enacted in 2007, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 5, § A)
§ 152.14 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a Floodplain Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the
time of passage of this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is
not begun under such outstanding permit within a period of six months
subsequent to the date of issuance of outstanding permit, construction or use
shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 5, § B)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter. The Administrator shall be designated by the
Town Manager.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 4, § A)
§ 152.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard area to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers,
mining, and the like) may be required that copies of such permits be provided
and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the national flood insurance program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into flood ways and non-encroachment area unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter are
met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structured, in accordance with this chapter;
   (G)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
the new or substantially improved structures and all utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with this chapter;
   (H)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with this chapter;
   (I)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
chapter;
   (J)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided, in
accordance with §
152.09, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to this
chapter, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway nor
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
152.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard
areas conflict with the current, natural topography information at the site,
the property owner may apply and be approved for a Letter of Map Amendment
(LOMA) by FEMA. Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection;
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress.
      (1)   As the work pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses,
the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may
be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions
of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit.
      (2)   In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purpose of
inspection or other enforcement action;
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped, the specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s)
for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be resumed.
Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and require the return of
the floodplain development permit by notifying the permit holder, in writing,
stating the reason(s) for the revocation.
      (2)   Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
      (3)   Any floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of
an applicable state or local law may also be revoked;
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of paper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.27;
   (S)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM, and/or other official flood maps/studies adopted under §
152.07, including any revisions hereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by the state and/or FEMA; and
   (T)   Notify the state and FEMA of mapping needs.
(2003 Code, Ch. 10, Art. 4, § D)
§ 152.27 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations applicable to state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner of occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law pertaining to
his, her, or their property.
   (B)   Action in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail, to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten days after the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue an
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order, in writing, to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 days, nor more than 180 days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action may
appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal, in writing, to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final.
      (2)   The local governing body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable
time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an appeal, he or
she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of
the court.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 4, § D)
§ 152.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments, as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the “Appeal Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board to the Court,
as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair of rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.05; and
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets requirements stated
in this chapter.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, as defined
under §
152.05, as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject and
anticipated development;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at
the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or non-
encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances includes the following:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, caused fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinance.
      (4)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to built and a written statement that the
cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced reference level elevation. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions; and
      (5)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
   (I)   A variance may be issues for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible locations exist for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 4, § E)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 CONSTRUCTION WITHIN FLOODWAYS, NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS, AND FLOODPLAINS
RESTRICTED.
   (A)   (1)   No building, zoning, special use, or conditional use permit may
be issued for any development within a floodway, non-encroachment area, or the
special flood hazard area (100-year floodplain). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
development may be authorized within the floodplain where either:
         (a)   A valid permit was issued prior to the effective date of this
section; or
         (b)   Where an existing lot of record is rendered undevelopable due to
the prohibition of new development within the floodplain.
      (2)   (a)   In situations where development is allowed, the property
shall be developed in such a way that has the least impact possible on the
floodplain, e.g., a structure shall encroach into the floodplain only to the
extent that it must in order to meet setbacks.
         (b)   Any encroachment into the floodplain shall be built at least two
feet above BFE.
      (3)   In addition, no permit shall be issued for any development within a
floodplain until the permit-issuing authority has reviewed the plans for any
such development to assure that:
         (a)   The proposed development is consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to minimize or reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
         (d)   All necessary permits have been received from those agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law;
         (e)   With respect to mobile homes or mobile home parks that are non-
conforming because they are located within a floodplain, mobile homes may be
relocated in such parks only if they comply with the provisions of division (E)
below;
         (f)   One residential accessory structure shall be allowed within the
floodplain provided it is firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (g)   Anchoring of any accessory building may be done by bolting the
building to a concrete slab or by means of over-the-top ties providing a
minimum of two ties are used with adequate force to secure the building;
         (h)   The proposed structures are designed or modified and adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral motion;
         (I)   The structures are constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage;
         (j)   The structures are constructed by methods and practices that
minimize flood damage;
         (k)   1.   Electrical, heating, ventila- tion, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during the conditions of flooding.
            2.   These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water
softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, dishwashers, and the like), water heaters, and electrical outlets/
switches;
         (l)   Openings below flood level are required for elevated structures;
and
         (m)   1.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous
waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities
shall not be permitted except by variance.
            2.   A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to
an allowed use or water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be
located in a special flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either
elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation
and certified according to this chapter.
   (B)   No building may be constructed and no substantial improvement of an
existing building may occur within any floodway or non-encroachment area.
   (C)   No new residential building may be constructed and no substantial
improvement of a residential building may take place within any floodplain
unless the lowest floor (including basement) of the building or improvement is
elevated to two feet above BFE.
   (D)   (1)   No new residential building may be constructed and no
substantial improvement of a nonresidential building may take place within any
floodplain unless the lowest floor (including basement) of the building or
improvement is elevated or floodproofed to or above the base flood level.
      (2)   Where floodproofing is used in lieu of elevation, a registered
professional engineer or architect shall certify that any new construction or
substantial improvement has been designed to withstand the flood depths,
pressure, velocities, impact, and uplift forces associated with the base flood
at the location of the building and that the wails below the base flood level
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no mobile home
may be located or relocated within that portion of the floodplain outside the
floodway or non-encroachment area unless the following criteria are met.
      (1)   Ground anchors for tie downs are provided.
      (2)   The following tie down requirements are met:
         (a)   Over the top ties are required at each of the four corners of
the mobile home, with one additional tie per side at an intermediate location
for mobile homes less than 50 feet long; two additional ties per side are
required for mobile homes more than 50 feet long;
         (b)   Frame ties are required in addition to over-the-top ties; and
         (c)   All components of the anchoring must be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds.
      (3)   Lots or pads are elevated on compacted fill or by any other method
approved by the Administrator so that the lowest habitable floor of the mobile
home is two feet above the base flood level. However, no new fill may be added
to comply with this section.
      (4)   Load-bearing foundation supports such as piers or pilings must be
placed on stable soil or concrete footings no more than ten feet apart, and if
the support height is greater than 72 inches, the support must contain steel
reinforcement.
   (F)   No fill dirt may be added within any floodway, non-encroachment area,
or floodplain.
   (G)   The fully enclosed area of new construction and substantially improved
structures which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation but shall
only be used for the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage
of maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises.
      (b)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment (standard exterior door) or entry to the living area (stairway or
elevator).
      (c)   The interior area of such enclosed area shall not be finished or
partitioned into separate rooms, except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials below
the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum of two flood openings on different
sides of each enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding.
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit.
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade.
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (f)   1.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings.
            2.   Masonry or wood under- pinning, regardless of structural
status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined
above.
   (H)   Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (I)   (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements are in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement. The addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement. Both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall comply
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement.  The addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement. Both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition(s) must comply with the
standards for new construction.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 4, § B) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.41 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   An applicant for a minor subdivision or for final plat approval for a
major subdivision shall be informed by the Administrator of the use and
construction restrictions contained in this chapter if any portion of the land
to be subdivided lies within a floodway, non-encroachment area, or floodplain.
   (B)   Final plat approval for any subdivision containing land that lies with
a floodway, non-encroachment area, or floodplain shall not be given unless the
plat shows the boundary of the floodway, non-encroachment area, or floodplain
and contains, in clearly discernable print, the following statement:
      “Use of land within a floodway, non-encroachment area or floodplain is
substantially restricted by Chapter 10 of the Codified Ordinances of the town
and relevant section of the State of North Carolina Building Code.”
   (C)   (1)   Subject to the following, approval of a minor subdivision or
final plat approval for a major subdivision may not be granted if:
         (a)   The land to be subdivided lies within a zone where residential
uses are permissible and it reasonably appears that the subdivision is designed
to create residential building lots;
         (b)   Any portion of one or more of the proposed lots lies within a
floodway, non-encroachment area, or floodplain; and
         (c)   It reasonably appears that one or more lots described in this
division (C)(1) and division (C)(2) below could not practicably be used as a
residential building site because of the restrictions set forth in this
chapter.
      (2)   The foregoing provision shall not apply if the developer
demonstrates, to the reasonable satisfaction of the approving authority, that
the proposed lots are not intended for sale as residential building lots.
   (D)   In areas with floodplains without established base flood elevations
(BFE), all subdivisions, manufactured home parks, and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if the development is greater than five acres
or has more than 50 lots or manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be
adopted by reference to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 4, § C)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provision of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards, established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(2003 Code, § Ch. 10, Art. 3, § H)
CHAPTER 153: LIGHTING
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   IESNA cutoff classification
   
153.04   Light measurement technique
   
153.05   General standards for site lighting
   
153.06   Lighting in outdoor areas (residential and non-residential)
   
153.07   Lighting for vehicular canopies
   
153.08   Outdoor sport field; outdoor performance area lighting
   
153.09   Lighting of outdoor display and sales areas
   
153.10   Lighting of buildings
   
153.11   Permanent signs and billboards
   
153.12   Residential subdivisions
   
153.13   Walkways, bikeways, and parks (lighted sections only)
   
153.14   Permitting and approval process
   
153.15   Exemptions
   
153.16   Nonconformities
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to control light trespass, pollution,
and glare so as not to adversely affect motorists, pedestrians, and land uses
of adjacent properties inside the city limits and within the ETJ planning
jurisdiction of the town, except where existing state and town regulations
preclude such jurisdiction.
   (B)   Levels of illumination (light) to achieve a certain function or
desired effect should also reduce or eliminate the hazardous aspects and
nuisance of glare and lighting trespass for all exterior lighting
installations. This includes, but is not limited to, facade building lighting,
recreation and sports areas, public and private streets, parking areas, and
signs.
   (C)   The intent of this chapter is to preserve and protect the nighttime
use and enjoyment of all property through the use of good lighting practices
and systems. With good design standards and professional installation and
design, lighting systems can be installed to control glare and light trespass,
and to conserve energy while maintaining security and productivity.
(2003 Code, § 28.1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANDELA. A measure of luminous or light intensity in a certain direction.
Useful in determining how much light is shining out of a fixture and in what
direction.
   FIXTURE. An assembly that holds the lamp (bulb) in a lighting system. It
includes the elements designed to give light output control, such as a
reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing, and the
attachment parts.
   FLOOD LAMP. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a specific
direction with a reflector formed from the glass envelope of the lamp itself.
Such lamps are so designated by the manufacturers and are typically used in
residential outdoor area lighting.
   FLOOD LIGHT. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a diffuse,
more or less specific direction, with reflecting or refracting elements located
external to the lamp.
   FOOTCANDLE (FC). A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light
(illumination) falling onto a given point. One FOOTCANDLE equals one lumen per
square foot.
   GLARE. The effect produced by a light source within the visual field that is
sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, to cause
annoyance, discomfort, or loss of visual performance and ability.
   HID or HIGH INTENSITY DISCHARGE LIGHTING. A bulb type including mercury
vapor, metal halide, high pressure, or low-pressure sodium, which glow when an
electric current is passed through a gas mixture inside the bulb.
   IESNA. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a non-profit
professional organization of lighting specialists that has established
recommended design standards for various lighting applications.
   ILLUMINANCE. The amount of light falling on a surface-measured in lux or
footcandles.
   INTERNAL REFRACTIVE LENS.
      (1)   A glass or plastic lens installed between the lamp and the sections
of the outer fixture globe or enclosure.
      (2)   REFRACTIVE refers to the redirection (bending) of the light as it
goes through the lens, softening and spreading the light being distributed from
the light source, thereby reducing direct glare.
   LIGHT SOURCE. The element of a lighting fixture that is the point of origin
of the lumens emitted by the fixture.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light emitted by a lighting installation that falls outside
the boundaries of the property on which the installation is sited. This has
adverse effects on residents, vehicle operators, pedestrians, and the natural
environment.
   LUMEN. A quantitative unit used to identify the amount of light emitted by a
light source. A lamp is generally rated in LUMENS.
   MAINTAINED FOOTCANDLES. Illuminance of lighting fixtures adjusted for a
maintenance factor accounting for dirt build-up and lamp output depreciation.
The maintenance factor used in the design process to account for this
depreciation cannot be lower than 0.72 for high-pressure sodium and 0.64 for
metal halide and mercury vapor.
   MEDIUM BASE. The size of lamp socket designed to accept a medium or Edison
base lamp.
   OUTDOOR PERFORMANCE AREA. An area permanently dedicated to the public
presentation of music, dance, theater, media arts, storytelling, oratory, or
other performing arts, whether publicly or privately owned, including, but not
limited to, amphitheaters and similar open or semi-enclosed structures.
   OUTDOOR SPORTS FIELD. An area designed for recreation (public or privately
owned). These areas include, but are not limited to, baseball/softball
diamonds, soccer fields, football fields, golf courses, golf driving ranges,
tennis courts, racetracks, firearm shooting ranges, and swimming pools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An interest in land to the town which provides for the
perpetual right and privilege of the town, its agents, franchise holders,
successors, and assigns to construct, install, improve, reconstruct, remove,
replace, inspect, repair, maintain, and use a public street, including related
and customary uses of street RIGHTS-OF-WAY, such as sidewalks, bike paths,
landscaping, mass transit facilities, traffic control, traffic control devices
and signage, sanitary sewer, storm water drainage, water supply, cable
television, electric power, gas, and telephone transmission and related
purposes in, upon, over, below, and across the RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting used for a limited duration, but in no case
longer than 30 days.
   VEHICULAR CANOPY. A roofed, open, drive-through structure designed to
provide temporary shelter for vehicles and their occupants while making use of
a business’ services.
   WALL PACK. A type of light fixture typically flush-mounted on a vertical
wall surface.
   WIDE-BODY REFRACTIVE GLOBE. A translucent lamp enclosure used with some
outdoor fixtures to provide a decorative look (including, but not limited to,
acorn- and carriage light-style fixtures).
      (1)   WIDE-BODY. A wider than average size globe (greater than 15.75
inches in diameter).
      (2)   REFRACTIVE. The redirection (bending) of the light as it goes
through the lens, rendering the light fixture more effective. WIDE-BODY
REFRACTIVE GLOBES are intended to soften and spread the light being distributed
from the light source thereby reducing direct glare.
(2003 Code, Chapter 28)
§ 153.03 IESNA CUTOFF CLASSIFICATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4177c2ad0ce76d6e3b4c4f113dda8599ae4ae51a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1479.png]
 
   (A)   Full cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no light intensity is
emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through the bottom of the fixture
and no more than 10% of the lamp’s light intensity is emitted at or above an
angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all lateral angles around the
fixture.
   (B)   Cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no more than 2.5% of a
lamp’s light intensity is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through
the bottom of the fixture and no more than 10% of the lamp’s light intensity is
emitted at or above an angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all
lateral angles around the fixture.
   (C)   Semi-cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no more than 5% of a
lamp’s light intensity is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through
the bottom of the fixture and no more than 20% of the lamp’s light intensity is
emitted at or above an angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all
lateral angles around the fixture
   (D)   Noncutoff. A fixture light distribution where there is no light
intensity limitation in the zone above the maximum distribution of light
intensity.
(2003 Code, Chapter 28)
§ 153.04 LIGHT MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUE.
   Light level measurements shall be made at the property line of the property
upon which the light to be measured is being generated. If measurement on
private property is not possible or practical, light level measurements may be
made at the boundary of the public street right-of-way that adjoins the
property of the complainant or at any other location on the property of the
complainant. Measurements shall be made at finished grade (ground level), with
the light-registering portion of the meter held parallel to the ground pointing
up. The meter shall have cosine and color correction and have an accuracy
tolerance of no greater than plus or minus 5%. Measurements shall be taken with
a light meter that has been calibrated within the previous two years. Light
levels are specified, calculated, and measured in footcandles (FC). All FC
values are maintained footcandles unless specified otherwise. See “maintained
footcandles” in §
152.02 for maximum allowed light loss factors.
(2003 Code, § 28.2) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR SITE LIGHTING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4177c2ad0ce76d6e3b4c4f113dda8599ae4ae51a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1481.png]
 
   All outdoor site lighting shall conform to the following standards.
   (A)   A lighting plan shall be provided for review at or before the
preliminary phase of a project approval process (site plan review or building
permit approval). The lighting plan shall demonstrate a consideration for
reduced energy consumption through the selection of energy efficient fixtures.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the following divisions, the maximum
light level shall be one-half maintained footcandles at any property line in a
residential district, or on a lot occupied by a dwelling, congregate care, or
congregate living structure. Floodlights shall not be aimed at residential
property.
   (C)   All floodlights shall be installed such that the fixture shall be
aimed down at least 45 degrees from vertical. These lights shall be positioned
such that any such fixture located within 50 feet of a public street right-of-
way is mounted and aimed perpendicular to the right-of-way, with a side-to-side
horizontal aiming tolerance not to exceed 15 degrees from perpendicular to the
right-of-way. The town’s Planning Director may require shields to be installed
on floodlights before, during, or after the installation when needed to further
reduce lighting trespass, glare, and light pollution.
   (D)   All flood lamps emitting 1,000 or more lumens shall be aimed at least
60 degrees down from horizontal or shielded such that the main beam from the
light source is not visible from adjacent properties or the public street
right-of-way.
   (E)   All wall pack fixtures shall be full cutoff fixtures.
   (F)   Where land elevations to be lighted are higher or lower than a nearby
highway, residential dwelling, or other type of facility and the lighting
installation causes offensive light trespass and/or glare, the town Planning
Director may require internal or external shields to be installed on the
fixtures at the time of the installation or afterwards. If shields do not
correct the problem sufficiently, the Planning Department may direct that one
or more of the following measures must be implemented:
      (1)   Change the aiming of offending fixtures;
      (2)   Change the location and/or mounting height or the offending poles;
      (3)   Change the light distribution pattern and/or type of offending
fixtures; and/or
      (4)   Remove the offending poles and fixtures from the site.
(2003 Code, § 28.3) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 LIGHTING IN OUTDOOR AREAS (RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL).
   (A)   Other than flood lights and flood lamps, all outdoor area and parking
lot lighting fixtures of more than 2,000 lumens shall be full cutoff fixtures,
or comply with division (D) below. Dusk-to-dawn open bottom non-cutoff security
lights must be fully shielded to provide a full cutoff light distribution.
   (B)   The same or similar light source color temperature (K°) must be used
on any one site that is part of a master-planned development (i.e., a mixture
of metal halide and high pressure sodium is not allowed in the same
development). This applies to all street light fixtures and to area and parking
lot light fixtures that are mounted on a pole or to the side of a building.
Exceptions must be approved by the Planning Director.
   (C)   The mounting height of all outdoor lighting, except outdoor sports
field lighting and outdoor performance area lighting shall not exceed 37 feet
above finished grade, unless approved by the town’s Planning Department as
having no adverse effect.
   (D)   For lighted parking lots, the minimum light level shall be no less
than 0.2 footcandles. All light levels are measured at ground level. The
minimum light level requirements vary depending on the activity classification.
The specified minimum FC value above 0.2 FC, as outlined in the following
table, means that the lowest light level point or location in the parking lot
must not exceed the minimum stated FC value in the table (i.e., 0.9 FC for
large shopping centers). An average to minimum uniformity ratio of 4:1 means
that the average FC to minimum FC ratio cannot be worse (higher) than 4:1. See
the following table.
Light Levels for Open Outdoor Parking Facilities*
Use/Task Maintained Footcandles Uniformity Avg/Min
Light Levels for Open Outdoor Parking Facilities*
Use/Task                      Maintained Footcandles     Uniformity Avg/Min
(a) Parking residential,                                 
multi-family
Low to medium vehicular/      Range from 0.2 min. to 0.7 4:1
pedestrian activity           min.
(b) Parking, industrial/
commercial/institutional/
municipal
High activity, i.e., large
shopping centers/fast food    0.9 min.                   4:1
facilities, major athletic/
civic cultural events
Medium/low activity, i.e.,
community shopping, office
parks, hospitals, commuter
lots, cultural/civic/         Range from 0.2 min. to 0.7
recreational events,          min.                       4:1
residential neighborhood
shopping, industrial employee
parking, schools, church
parking
Source: IESNA 8th Edition Lighting Handbook; Modifications: Medium and Low
Activity Level recommendations have been combined and modified.
Notes:
1. Illumination levels are horizontal on the task, e.g., pavement or area
surface.
 
2. Uniformity ratios dictate that average illuminance values shall not
exceed minimum values by more than the product of the minimum value and the
specified ratio. For example, for commercial parking medium/low activity,
the average footcandles shall not be in excess of 2.8 (0.7 x 4).
 
3. The town’s Planning Director or his or her designee shall be responsible
for determining the activity level for a development. Any project that
requests a light level that exceeds the footcandle values outlined above
must demonstrate a need for a higher light level, be approved by the Public
Planning Director, and meet lighting trespass limits described herein.
 
   (E)   Criteria that can demonstrate a need for a higher light level or other
changes that may be required when higher levels are used include, but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Safety and security. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America (IESNA) provides guidance in its 9th Edition of the Lighting Handbook
in Chapter 22. Footnote number two reads:
         “If personal security or vandalism is likely and/or severe problem, a
significant increase of the basic level (0.2 FC horizontal) may be
appropriate.”
      (2)   Adjacent uses. An adjacent use that is non-residential with a
higher light level (light surround) level may required more light to provide
the same visibility than an adjacent property with less light (dark surround);
      (3)   Full cutoff fixtures with shields. In cases where a higher light
level is approved, full cutoff fixtures with shielding for designated fixtures
may also be justified to better contain the lighting on the property to be
lighted and reduce the amount of glare coming out of the fixtures; and
      (4)   Guideline for increased light level.
         (a)   The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA)
provides guidance in its Ninth Edition of the Lighting Handbook in Chapter 22.
Footnote number two reads:
            “Many retailers prefer even higher light levels, with a
specification of 10 lux (1 FC) minimum value.”
         (b)   The town’s upper limit where a need for higher lighting levels
is demonstrated is 4.8 maximum average maintained footcandles. Therefore, the
upper limit for the minimum point of illumination is 1.2 FC with a 4:1 average
to minimum ratio. (1.2 x 4 = 4.8).
   (F)   Exceptions to open parking facility standards include the following.
      (1)   Non-cutoff decorative post-mounted fixtures may be used but must be
equipped with a solid top. Mounting heights of 18 feet or less above ground are
allowed when the maximum initial lumens generated by each fixture does not
exceed 9,500 initial lamp lumens.
      (2)   All metal halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white high
pressure sodium, and color improved high pressure sodium lamps 9,500 lumens and
less used in non-cutoff fixtures shall be coated with an internal white
frosting inside the outer lamp envelope.
      (3)   All metal halide solid-top decorative post fixtures equipped with a
medium base socket must use an internal refractive lens, a diffuse outer lens,
or a wide-body refractive globe as described in §
153.02.
      (4)   Temporary lighting for special events of short duration. Typically,
these are low wattage or low voltage applications for public festivals, and the
observance of holidays, carnivals, and celebrations.
   (G)   Garage parking facilities light to IES recommendations outlined below:
Recommended Maintained Illuminance for Parking Garages
 Minimum Horizontal2 Max to Min Horizontal Uniformity Ratios3 Minimum Vertical5
 Lux Footcandle4                                              Lux Footcandle4
Recommended Maintained Illuminance for Parking Garages
                Minimum Horizontal2 Max to Min Horizontal Minimum Vertical5
                                    Uniformity Ratios3
                Lux Footcandle4                           Lux Footcandle4
Basic1          10  1               10:1                  5   0.5
Ramps6
Day7            20  2.0             10:1                  10  1.0
Night           10  1.0             10:1                  5   0.5
Entrance Areas8
Day             500 50                                    250 25
Night           10  1.0             10:1                  5   0.5
Stairways       20  2.0                                   10  1.0
Source: IESNA 9th Edition Handbook
Footnotes:
1 For typical conditions: while these values are intended to address
personal security issues, some retailers may increase them to further
offset perceived concerns. Top levels of garages open to the sky shall not
exceed 0.5 FC minimum with a maximum to minimum uniformity ratio of 15:
1 horizontal and 0.25 FC minimum vertical illuminance (source: IESNA Ninth
Edition Handbook). The mounting height on the top level of a garage shall
not be greater than 22 feet above the parking deck top floor, including
raised foundations and the light fixture classification shall be full
cutoff.
 
2 Measured on the parking surface, without any shadowing effect from parked
vehicles or columns. For preliminary design, an average value of 50
horizontal lux (five horizontal FC) for basic illuminance (and equivalent
for other conditions) may be calculated.
 
3 The highest horizontal illuminance area, divided by the lowest horizontal
illuminance area, should not be greater than the ratio shown.
 
4 Rounded conversion of lux to footcandles.
 
5 Measured at one and one-half meters (five feet) above parking surface at
the point of lowest horizontal illuminance, excluding facing outward along
boundaries.
 
6 Applies to clearway ramps (no adjacent parking) but not to sloping floor
designs.
 
7 Daylight may be considered in the design calculation.
 
(2003 Code, § 28.4) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 LIGHTING FOR VEHICULAR CANOPIES.
   (A)   Areas under a vehicular canopy shall have an average maximum
horizontal illuminance of 20 maintained footcandles (FC). Areas outside the
vehicular canopy shall be regulated by the standards of §
153.06(D). Lighting under vehicular canopies shall be designed so as not to
create glare off-site.
   (B)   Acceptable methods include one or both of the following:
      (1)   Recessed fixture incorporating a lens cover that is either recessed
or flush with the bottom surface (ceiling) of the vehicular canopy that
provides a full cutoff or fully-shielded light distribution; and
      (2)   Surface mounted fixture incorporating a flat glass that provides a
full cutoff or fully-shielded light distribution.
(2003 Code, § 28.5) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 OUTDOOR SPORT FIELD; OUTDOOR PERFORMANCE AREA LIGHTING.
   (A)   The mounting height of outdoor sports field and outdoor performance
area lighting fixtures shall not exceed 80 feet from finished grade unless
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All outdoor sports field and outdoor performance area lighting
fixtures shall be equipped with a glare control package (louvers, shields, or
similar devices).
   (C)   The fixtures must be aimed so that their beams are directed and fall
within the primary playing or performance area. The maximum light level shall
be one-half maintained footcandle at any property line in a residential
district, or on a lot occupied by a dwelling, congregate care, or congregate
living structure.
   (D)   Non-conforming fixtures lighting sports fields may be replaced or
otherwise changed on 30% or less with new non-conforming fixtures. However,
when over 30% of the fixtures are upgraded or otherwise changed, all the
fixtures must be brought into compliance with the requirements of these
lighting standards.
   (E)   The hours of operation for the lighting system for any game or event
shall not exceed one hour after the end of the event.
(2003 Code, § 28.6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 LIGHTING OF OUTDOOR DISPLAY AND SALES AREAS.
   The following provisions apply to outdoor display and sales areas except for
car dealership parking lots, as specified in division (D) below.
   (A)   Parking lot outdoor areas shall be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements for §
153.08. Outdoor display areas where a non- residential use is adjacent to
another non-residential use, the maximum average maintained illuminance shall
not exceed 20 maintained footcandles. Outdoor display areas where a non-
residential use is adjacent to any residential use, the maximum average
maintained illuminance shall not exceed 15 maintained footcandles and the
fixtures shall be full cutoff.
   (B)   All light fixtures shall meet the IESNA definition of full cutoff
fixtures unless specified otherwise. Forward throw fixtures (type IV light
distribution, as defined by the IESNA) are required within 25 feet of any
public street right-of-way. Alternatively, directional fixtures (such as
floodlights) may be used provided they shall be aimed in accordance with §
153.05(C).
   (C)   The mounting height of outdoor display area fixtures shall not exceed
37 feet above finished grade, unless approved by the town’s Planning Department
as having no adverse effect.
   (D)   For car dealership parking lots, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Only cutoff or full cutoff fixtures shall be used.
      (2)   Mounting heights of up to a maximum of 35 plus two-foot raised base
for parking areas when needed shall be used.
      (3)   Lighting at the first row or closest paved display area adjacent to
a public right-of-way, the car bumper may not exceed a maximum average
maintained illuminance of 20 footcandles. This limit also applies to other
merchandise display areas. Full cutoff fixtures shall be used in both
locations.
      (4)   Lighting in the non-merchandising areas of the parking lot shall be
no higher than five FC average maintained. Full cutoff fixtures shall be used
here.
(2003 Code, § 28.7) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 LIGHTING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the building facade,
plantings, and other intended site features, and away from adjoining properties
and the public street right-of-way.
   (B)   Illumination on any vertical surface or angular roof shall not exceed
five FC average maintained.
   (C)   Where possible, lighting fixtures shall be directed downward rather
than upward. The town’s Planning Department can waive this requirement in cases
where it is impractical.
   (D)   When upward aiming is used, placement of low wattage fixtures with
shields (as needed) close to the building to graze the facade is required to
minimize reflected light from windows and other surfaces. The town’s Planning
Department can waive this requirement in cases where it is impractical.
(2003 Code, § 28.8) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 PERMANENT SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   Lighting fixtures that externally illuminate signs shall be in compliance
with the sign regulations of Article VI of the Zoning Ordinance. Billboards, if
allowed by the town, must always be lighted from the top down to reduce light
pollution.
(2003 Code, § 28.9) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This section applies to residential subdivision lighting for
single-family and multi-family developments.
      (2)   Specific lighting requirements and limitations for roadways,
entries, accenting, landscaping, buildings, individual homes, and multi-family
homes are to be referenced in the applicable section contained herein.
   (B)   The following classifications of residences and/or facilities are
addressed.
      (1)   Single-family. Individual single-family homes located within a
residential subdivision consisting of five or more homes shall be subject to
the provisions of these lighting standards.
      (2)   Multi-family. Multi-family homes located within a residential
subdivision consisting of apartments, condominiums, town homes, patio homes,
cluster homes, and assisted living facilities, consisting of multi-story,
multi-building communities, and/or groups of homes, shall be subject to the
provisions of these lighting standards.
      (3)   Roads. In residential subdivisions, roadway lighting, if
applicable, must conform to the general type(s) of fixture classification(s)
described in these lighting standards. These areas are characterized by low
ambient light levels and are found in suburban and rural residential areas.
      (4)   Entry way. In residential subdivisions, the entry way by which
motor vehicle traffic accesses the community roadways and any applicable
signage shall be subject to the provisions of these lighting standards.
      (5)   Common facilities. In residential subdivisions, certain types of
common facilities consisting of, but not limited to, club houses, pool houses,
recreational halls, sports facilities, maintenance buildings, as well as common
grounds, walkways, and parking areas are considered to be subject to the
provisions of these lighting standards.
(2003 Code, § 28.10) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.13 WALKWAYS, BIKEWAYS, AND PARKS (LIGHTED SECTIONS ONLY).
   The walkway, pathway, or ground areas that are to be lighted shall be
illuminated to a level of at least 0.2 average horizontal maintained
footcandles and no more than 0.5 average horizontal maintained footcandles.
(2003 Code, § 28.11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.14 PERMITTING AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The applicant for any permit required for work involving outdoor
lighting for commercial, office, industrial, and institutional projects with a
gross floor area of more than 3,000 square feet, residential projects other
than single-family dwellings of more than five units, all vehicular canopies
and all outdoor display areas shall submit documentation at time of site plan
or plot plan approval that the proposed lighting plan complies with the
provisions of this lighting standard.
   (B)   The submission shall contain, but not be limited to, the following,
all or part of which may be part of or in addition to the information required
elsewhere in these lighting standards.
      (1)   (a)   A lighting plan to scale is required that shows a point-by-
point footcandle array on a ten feet by ten feet grid in a printout format
indicating the location and aiming of illuminating devices.
         (b)   The printout shall indicate compliance with the maximum average
maintained footcandles, light trespass, and uniformity required by this
lighting standard.
      (2)   Description of the fixture types, lamps, poles, mounting height,
raised foundations, and the IESNA cutoff classification for the fixture and
other devices (including, but not limited to, manufacturers or electric utility
catalog specification sheets and/or drawings).
      (3)   (a)   The above required plans and descriptions shall be
sufficiently complete to enable the Administrator to readily determine
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Projects that are not required to submit items identified in
this section are still subject to comply with the provisions of these lighting
standards and may be required to provide this information upon request by the
town at a later date.
(2003 Code, § 28.13)
§ 153.15 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions include:
   (A)   Lighting of the U.S. and state flags and other flags or insignia of
any governmental, non- profit, or business organization;
   (B)   Circus, fair, carnival, or other similar civic/community events;
   (C)   Construction and emergency lighting are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter provided said lighting is temporary and is discontinued
immediately upon completion of the construction work or abatement of the
emergency necessitating said lighting;
   (D)   Underwater lighting used for illumination of swimming pools and
fountains; and
   (E)   Holiday, festive, and landscape lighting.
(2003 Code, § 28.14)
§ 153.16 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Any lighting fixture lawfully in place or approved by the town
prior to the adoption of these lighting standards shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   At the time that a non-conforming fixture is replaced, moved,
upgraded, or otherwise changed, the fixture must be brought into compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Any expansion of, or addition to, an existing lighting system must
conform to the requirements of these lighting standards.
   (B)   (1)   Routine maintenance, including changing the lamp, ballast,
starter, photo control, lens, and other required components, is permitted for
all existing fixtures.
      (2)   When the fixture housing is changed, the fixture must come into
compliance. (Elevations)
   (C)   (1)   Property owners that install lighting fixtures after the
effective date of these lighting standards and are found to be in non-
compliance shall receive written notification and will be given 90 calendar
days from the date of written notification to bring the lighting system into
compliance.
      (2)   Under extenuating circumstances, such as unavailability of
compliant equipment, the property owner may apply for an extension of time to
be determined by the town’s Planning Department.
(2003 Code, § 28.15)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Should the property owner fail to bring the lighting system into
compliance with §
153.16, the owner shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50 for each violation
(i.e., each fixture, mounting height, light trespass, and the like out of
compliance).
      (2)   Each day that a lighting violation remains out of compliance with
the requirements of these lighting standards after the notification period
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (3)   As an example, if there were three violations that were not brought
into compliance for ten days after the expiration of the notification period,
this would constitute a total of 30 violations at $50 civil penalty per
violation.
(2003 Code, § 28.15)
CHAPTER 154: NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Short title
   
154.02   Purpose and authority
   
154.03   Scope and applicability
   
154.04   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.20   Duties and powers of the Code Enforcement Official
   
154.21   Inspections
   
154.22   Administrative liability
   
154.23   Procedure for enforcement
   
154.24   Appeals from order of Code Enforcement Official to the Board of
Adjustment
   
154.25   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
154.26   Lis pendens
   
154.27   Costs a lien on a property
   
154.28   Alternative remedies
   
154.29   Ejectment
Maintenance Standards
   
154.40   Maintenance standards in general
   
154.41   External maintenance standards
   
154.42   Interior maintenance standards
   
154.43   Property maintenance standards
   
154.44   Vacant buildings or structures
 
   
154.99   Violations; penalties.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The rules and regulations prescribed by this chapter shall be known and be
cited as "The Nonresidential Building Code" and may be referred to in this
chapter as "this code."
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1129, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish
minimum standards for the maintenance, sanitation and safety of all
nonresidential buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the
town. This chapter does not replace or modify requirements or standards
otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
buildings, equipment or facilities, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord., passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.03 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all nonresidential
buildings or structures which are now in existence, or which may be built
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Every nonresidential building or structure and the property on which
it is situated shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not
such building or structure shall have been constructed, altered, or repaired
before or after the enactment of this chapter, and irrespective of any permits
or licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or
structure or for the installment or repair of equipment or facilities.
(Ord., passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, means a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; as
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from one location or position to another; and the term ALTER in its
various moods and tenses and its participle refers to the making of an
alteration.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
approved by the inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated
by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, means the maximum
horizontal projected area of the building.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, means the total square
footage of floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A story with 50% or more of its cubical volume below finished
grade.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals or property of any kind. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase "or part thereof."
   CLOSE. Securing the building or structure so that unauthorized persons
cannot gain entrance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated by the Town
Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building or structure,
leaving the property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets
which may retain water.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the inspector.
   GARBAGE. Waste materials including, without limitation, the byproduct of
animal or vegetable foodstuffs, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,  excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard waste, tins, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery, dust and the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a building or structure, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or public.
   INSPECTOR. Any person who is authorized by the Code Enforcement Official to
conduct inspections for the purpose of this chapter.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Any building or structure that is not a dwelling, lodging
establishment, manufactured home or rooming house as those terms are defined in
Chapter 11.
   OWNER. The holder of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTY IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who have
interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who are
in possession thereof.
   PIER. A masonry or other material support extending from the ground and
footing to and supporting the building or portion thereof. Pier sizes and
spacing shall conform to the specifications of the state building code.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical sink grinders, waste
pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents
and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to
water, sewer or gas lines.
   PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building, structures or
improvements located thereon.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any authority or officer of any department or branch of
the government of the town, county or state who is in charge of administering
and enforcing regulations relating to health, fire, public safety, buildings or
other activities concerning buildings or structures in the town.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   TOWN BOARD. The Town Board of Commissioner of the Town of Pittsboro.
   VACANT. A building or structure has not been used for its intended purpose
or for any lawful purpose for a period of at least 180 consecutive days.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods which has not been used for
those purposes for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.20 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Official to:
   (A)   Investigate the conditions of and inspect buildings and structures in
the town in order to determine whether they have been properly maintained in
compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter so that the
safety or health of the occupants or members of the general public are not
jeopardized;
   (B)   Enter upon property for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections provided that such entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession, if any;
   (C)   If permission to enter is not granted by the owner, the owner's agent,
a tenant, or other person legally in possession of the property, obtain a duly
issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
   (E)   Delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter to
other officers and agents;
   (F)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect compliance of
nonresidential buildings or structures which are in an unsafe condition;
   (G)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (H)   Issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties;
   (I)   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter;
and
   (J)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.21 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Code Enforcement Official is
hereby authorized to enter and examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all
property after sufficiently identifying himself. The owner or occupant of every
property, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Code Enforcement
Official free access to such property, at all reasonable times, for the purpose
of such inspection, examination and survey.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.22 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
town officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
duties under this chapter unless he acted with actual malice.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.23 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement
Official that any nonresidential building or structure has not been properly
maintained so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the
general public is jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum
standards established by this chapter, he shall undertake a preliminary
investigation.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards established by this chapter,
the Code Enforcement Official shall issue a complaint and cause it to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such nonresidential building or
structure. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Code Enforcement Official at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten days or more than 30 days after the serving of such
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to correct
the violation or to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in the hearing before the Code Enforcement
Official.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing; issuance of order.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing provided for in division (B), the Code
Enforcement Official determines that the nonresidential building or structure
has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its occupants
or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the property to
meet the minimum standards established in this chapter, the Code Enforcement
Official shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner an order.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration, or improvement of the nonresidential building or structure
would not exceed 50% of its then current value, then the Code Enforcement
Official shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such
determination and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable
time specified in the order, to either:
         (a)   Repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or
structure in order to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards
established in this chapter; or
         (b)   Vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure for
any use.
      (3)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration, or improvement of the nonresidential building or structure
would exceed 50% of its then current value, then the Code Enforcement Official
shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such determination
and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable time specified
in the order, to either:
         (a)   Remove or demolish the nonresidential building or structure; or
         (b)   Repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or
structure to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established in
this chapter.
   (D)   Limitations on orders.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Board determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established in this chapter.
      (2)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
   (E)   Action by the Town Board upon failure to comply with order.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
Town Board may adopt an ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to
cause such building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved in order
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter or to be vacated and closed for any use. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the granter index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Code Enforcement Official may cause the building or structure to
be repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Code
Enforcement Official may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any
nonresidential building or structure so closed a placard with the following
words: "This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation of this
building for any purpose is prohibited and unlawful." Any person who occupies
or knowingly allows the occupancy of a building or structure so posted shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the nonresidential building or structure, the Town Board may adopt an ordinance
ordering the Code Enforcement Official to cause such building or structure to
be removed or demolished. No ordinance shall be adopted to require removal or
demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established in this chapter. The property or properties shall
be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of
the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner or
owners in the granter index. Following adoption of an ordinance, the Code
Enforcement Official may cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (F)   Action by Town Board upon abandonment of intent to repair.
      (1)   If the Town Board has adopted an ordinance or the Code Enforcement
Official has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired
or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been vacated and closed
for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the Town Board
may make findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to
repair, alter, or improve the building or structure and that the continuation
of the building or structure in its vacated and closed status would be inimical
to the health, safety, and welfare of the town in that it would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, or
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area. Upon such findings, the Town Board may, after-the expiration of the
two year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
         (a)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
         (b)   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days. In the case of vacant manufacturing
facilities or vacant industrial warehouse facilities, the building or structure
must have been vacated and closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a
period of five years before the Town Board may take action under this division.
The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the
county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with the ordinance, the Code
Enforcement Official shall cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.24 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL TO THE BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision of the Code Enforcement Official may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby to the Board of Adjustment described in §
150.27. Any appeal from the Code Enforcement Official must be taken within ten
days after the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the Code Enforcement Official and with the Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the Code Enforcement Official refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to
do any act, the Code Enforcement Official 's decision shall remain in force
until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the Code
Enforcement Official requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal
shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing of the
board unless the Code Enforcement Official certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal is made, that, by reason of the fact stated in the
certificate, a copy of which shall be furnished to the appellant and other
parties in interest, a suspension of this requirement would cause imminent
peril to life or property. When the Code Enforcement Official issues such a
certificate, the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining
order which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's
written notice to the Code Enforcement Official by the Board or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1208 and division (C) of this
section. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals
and cross appeals, shall give due notices to all parties in interest and shall
render its decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or
by agent or attorney and present evidence. The Board may reverse, affirm,
wholly or partly, or modify the decision or order appealed from and may make
such decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter. All
Board meetings shall have a quorum present of at least four members, and the
vote of at least four members shall be required for a decision on an appeal or
cross appeal. The Board shall have the power in passing upon appeals and cross
appeals where there are practical difficulties or hardships to adopt the
application of this chapter to the necessities of the individual case to the
end that the general purposes of the law and justice shall be done.
   (B)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the service of the
decision of the Board on the person who filed the appeal.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Code Enforcement
Official, or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the right, within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the Code Enforcement
Official pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160D-
1208(d).
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.25 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered
or certified mail so long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve
actual notice. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of
the complaint or order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be
deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the property affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Code Enforcement Official makes an
affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners
or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under this chapter. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property affected.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.26 LIS PENDENS.
   Any complaint and notice of hearing or order issued pursuant to this chapter
may be filed in the notice of lis pendens in the office of the Clerk of the
Superior Court. A copy of the complaint containing a notice of hearing or a
copy of the order shall be attached to the lis pendens. When the lis pendens is
filed with the clerk, it shall be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with
the indexing procedures of G.S. § 1-117 and it shall be served on the owners of
and parties in interest in the building or structure. From the date and time of
indexing the complaint and notice of hearing or order, it shall be binding upon
the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the
building or structure. The Code Enforcement Official may cancel the lis pendens
upon his determination that the owner of the building or structure has fully
complied with the Code Enforcement Official's order.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.27 COSTS A LIEN ON THE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1129(i), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations, or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property
upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same
priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in G.S.
Ch. 160D, Art. 11.
   (B)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition expended by the Code Enforcement
Official is also a lien on any other real property of the owner located within
the town limits except for the owner's primary residence. The additional lien
provided in this division is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected
as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Code Enforcement Official, he shall offer for sale the recoverable
materials of the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or
appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure and shall
credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or
demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court
by the Code Enforcement Official, shall be secured in a manner directed by the
court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the Town Board to define
and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.28 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Enforcement by any remedy provided in this chapter shall not prevent
enforcement by any other remedy provided in this chapter or in other ordinances
or laws. With the exception of § 150.07(E)(1), however, a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall not constitute an infraction or misdemeanor
punishable under G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
§ 154.29 EJECTMENT.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the Code Enforcement Official may file a civil action in
the name of the town to remove the occupant. Such action shall be filed in the
nature of summary ejectment and conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1129
(j).
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
§ 154.40 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Only electrical, mechanical and plumbing devices and systems which are
(i) intended to be used at the time of inspection; (ii) being used at the time
of inspection; or (iii) required by law at the time of inspection are subject
to the applicable portions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon discovery of any possible violation related to provisions of the
North Carolina Fire Code, including fire protection and life-safety systems, a
referral shall be made to the Charlotte Fire Department, Fire Marshal's office
for inspection and enforcement.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.41 EXTERNAL MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exit requirements.
      (1)   Minimum number of exits shall conform to the requirements of the
state Building Code as applicable.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch, and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including without limitation, handrails and guardrails, shall
be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each shall be
properly anchored and capable of supporting live or dead loads.
   (B)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures, or other fixtures shall be
hanging loose, unless designed and rated for that purpose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
      (3)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (4)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length used in place of permanent wiring.
      (5)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (7)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
      (8)   All breaker boxes, wiring, junction boxes, busways, or other
electrical enclosures shall be in good condition and maintained to prevent
shock hazard.
   (C)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the plumbline
from the top center of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along
the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the state Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs or other structural members shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be reasonably weathertight, with no holes or
excessive cracks or decayed boards, or siding material.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventative
maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing and repair.
      (8)   All door fenestrations shall be in operable condition.
   (D)   Roofs.
      (1)   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration
and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live loads, including
rafters and ceiling, or floor joists.
      (2)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects
which admit water or rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness
or deterioration in the walls or interior of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters, scuppers, and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair, and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a health or safety hazard.
   (E)   Porches, vestibules and external covered areas.
      (1)   The floor, ceiling, and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this chapter, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weathertight.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each
shall be properly anchored, and capable of supporting imposed loads.
   (F)   Windows, where provided, including frames, sash components, and
glazing shall be maintained in good condition, with no broken, cracked, or
missing glazing.
   (G)   Property maintenance.
      (1)   Building structure. Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant
to deterioration shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other
suitable preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Open areas. There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of
plant growth which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is
overgrown, may provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (3)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
      (4)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.42 INTERIOR MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   In general. The interior of a structure, including wall and ceiling
coverings, and equipment therein shall be maintained in good order, shall be
structurally sound, and be in a sanitary condition. Occupants shall keep that
part of the building or structure which they occupy or control in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Exit requirements. Minimum number of exits shall conform to the
requirements of the state Building Code as applicable.
   (C)   Plumbing systems and facilities.
      (1)   In general, all fixtures and piping shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects. All plumbing shall be capable of performing the function for which
such plumbing fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained
in a safe, sanitary and functional condition.
      (2)   Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearance for usage and
cleaning.
      (3)   Where it is found that a plumbing system in a building or structure
creates an unsafe condition that is hazardous to the occupants, or by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back siphonage,
improper installation deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the Code
Enforcement Official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the
unsafe condition.
   (D)   Heating facilities.
      (1)   Building shall be weatherproof.
      (2)   Heating systems shall be maintained in good order and repair and
shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all occupied areas in accordance
with the state Building Code.
      (3)   All safety controls and all clearances to combustible materials for
electrical equipment which produces heat shall be maintained in effective
operation.
      (4)   Other heating facilities, where provided, shall meet the
requirements of the state Building Code.
      (5)   All electric, gas and heating oil heating equipment installed on
the property shall be listed by Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc. or American
Gas Association and installed fn accordance with the provisions of the state
Building Code.
      (6)   All mechanical appliances, including ventilation and air
conditioning or cooling systems, or appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be capable of performing the
intended function.
      (7)   All fuel burning equipment or appliances shall be connected to an
approved chimney or vent. Fuel burning equipment and appliances labeled for
unvented use are an exception to this requirement.
      (8)   All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
      (9)   All safety controls for fuel burning equipment shall be maintained
in effective operation.
   (E)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures, or other fixtures shall be
hanging loose unless designed and rated for that purpose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
      (3)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (4)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length used in place of permanent wiring.
      (5)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (7)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
   (F)   Structural standards.
      (1)   Foundation.
         (a)   Beneath the building or structure there shall be firm ground,
which is reasonably dry, properly drained and no water shall be running under
the building or structure.
         (b)   There shall be sound footings and adequate bearing.
         (c)   There shall be sound piers and no loose mortar or masonry.
         (d)   There shall be no piers in which the plumbline from the top
center falls outside the middle one third of the pier base.
         (e)   There shall be no isolated masonry piers exceeding in height ten
times the least dimension of the pier.
         (f)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (2)   Floors.
         (a)   Flooring shall be weathertight without holes or excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms.
         (b)   Flooring or floor covering shall be reasonably smooth and not
decayed, fire damaged or worn through.
         (c)   There shall be no loose flooring.
         (d)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
         (e)   All structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live
loads.
      (3)   Interior load bearing walls.
         (a)   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the plumbline
from the top center studs fails outside the base plate at any point along the
wall.
         (b)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing the studs show signs of
being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the state
Building Code.
         (c)   Studs or other structural members, including posts and columns,
shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural weaknesses in
the future.
         (d)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (4)   Interior porches, landings and vestibules.
         (a)   The floor and ceiling shall be equal to the requirements set
forth in this chapter.
         (b)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition and in good repair.
         (c)   Any interior porch, landing or vestibule shall be properly
anchored and capable of supporting live and dead loads.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.43 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building structure. Storage of combustible materials is prohibited
unless the building or structure is designed for that purpose.
   (B)   Open areas.
      (1)   Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to
protect buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant pools.
      (2)   Fences, sheds, signs, outbuildings, and other accessory buildings
shall be maintained in a safe and functional condition or removed or
demolished.
      (3)   Yards, courts, parking lots, and driveways shall be kept clean and
free of physical hazards, garbage, junk, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and
other similar material.
      (4)   There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of plant growth
which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is overgrown, may
provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (5)   There shall be adequate lighting to prevent harborage for criminal
activity.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (D)   Garbage. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and methods for
the storage, handling and disposal of garbage generated on or by the property.
   (E)   Storm drainage. Drainage of paved areas, yards, courts and other open
areas on the property shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a health
or safety hazard.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.44 VACANT BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The interior maintenance standards set forth in §
154.42 shall not apply to vacant nonresidential buildings or structures unless
one or more of the following serious conditions is present on the property:
      (1)   Overall conditions present a serious health or safety hazard.
      (2)   The building or structure is a breeding area for rodents or
insects.
      (3)   The building or structure presents a fire hazard.
      (4)   The building or structure is structurally unsafe and presents a
threat to the safety of code enforcement personnel, fire department personnel
and law enforcement officers or members of the general public.
      (5)   The building or structure is frequented by vagrants.
      (6)   The building or structure is not properly secured to prevent
unauthorized access.
   (B)   If the Code Enforcement Official orders a nonresidential building or
structure vacated and closed pursuant to this chapter, the owner shall board
and secure such building or structure in accordance with the guidelines for
boarding and securing a building or structure provided by the Code Enforcement
Official.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential building or
structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the building
or structure, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish, or to vacate and
close the building or structure upon order of the Code Enforcement Official
duly made and served as provided in this chapter, within the time specified in
such order; and each day that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply
with such order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or agent of the owner of any
nonresidential building or structure, with respect to which an order has been
issued to occupy or permit the occupancy of the building after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and removal or demolition, and each day that such
occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   Any owner who fails to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement
Official to repair, alter or improve the building or structure or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the building or structure, or vacate and close the
building or structure within the time specified in the order, shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 for the first day of noncompliance and
$100 for each day thereafter until the building or structure is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
(Ord. passed 6-27-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 2003 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
1-117                            154.26
1-120.2                          150.27
1-539                            Chapter 90
1-593                            10.05
4-286                            94.17
Chapter 7A                       152.28
                                 32.35 -
                                 32.46,
Chapter 14                       32.99,
                                 130.02,
                                 130.03,
                                 Chapter 131
                                 70.99,
                                 90.53,
                                 91.99,
14-4                             132.99,
                                 116.01,
                                 116.05,
                                 116.06,
                                 154.28
14-4(b)                          70.99
14-136 et seq.                   94.15
14-221 et seq.                   32.05
14-234                           113.22
14-283                           94.15
14-288.1(2)                      32.39
14-288.5                         32.99
14-410 et seq.                   94.15
15-27.2                          Chapter 115,
                                 154.20
15A-401                          32.04,
                                 32.06
15A-511 et seq.                  32.04
                                 113.02,
Chapter 18B                      113.20,
                                 116.01
18B-401                          Chapter 115
18B-300.1(j)(1) to (3)           116.06
Chapter 18B, Article 5           113.23
18B-500                          113.23
18B-500 et seq.                  113.23
18B-700                          113.16
18B-701                          113.23
18B-702                          113.23
Chapter 18B, Article 8           113.23
18B-800 et seq.                  113.23
18B-1001                         113.03
18B-1001(1)                      116.02
18B-1001(3)                      116.02
18B-1001(5)                      116.02
18B-1001(10)                     116.02
18B-1001(16)                     116.02
18B-1100(5)                      116.02
19A-1 et seq.                    Chapter 92
                                 Chapter 72,
Chapter 20                       Chapter 73,
                                 74.99
20-4.01(12a)                     74.03
20-57                            94.20
20-87                            Chapter 115
20-97                            Chapter 115
20-101                           Chapter 115
20-125                           Chapter 91
20-129                           71.08
20-137.1                         74.04
20-162(b)                        94.15
                                 Chapters
20-169                           72 and
                                 73
20-183.2 et seq.                 Chapter 115
20-219.11                        95.12
20-280                           Chapter 115
Chapter 44A, Article I           95.14
Chapter 58, Article 78 et seq.   94.15
58-83.1                          94.16
                                 Chapters
Chapter 62                       50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
67-1 et seq.                     Chapter 92
Chapter 69                       94.15
90-21.20                         32.04
Chapter 93B                      110.25
Chapter 105                      33.40
105-109                          110.47,
                                 110.48
113-127                          Chapter 93
118-1010                         116.05
121-5                            110.36,
                                 110.46
128-16 et seq.                   32.04
                                 Chapter 90,
Chapter 130A                     94.01,
                                 150.04
130A-34 et seq.                  Chapter 90,
                                 94.01
130A-290(a)(6)                   152.05
130A-290(a)(35)                  152.05
130A-290(a)(36)                  152.05
Chapter 130A, Article 9          152.05
Chapter 131A                     Chapter 90
Chapter 131E                     Chapter 90
136-16 et seq.                   Chapter 93
136-18(21)                       Chapter 90
136-141 et seq.                  95.17
Chapter 143, Article 21          53.106
Chapter 143, Article 21, part 6  152.01
143-145(7)                       150.04
                                 Chapters
143-211 et seq.                  50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
143-213(18)                      53.002
143-215.1                        53.002,
                                 53.051
143-215.1(b)                     53.051
143-215.3                        53.002
143-215.3(a)(14)                 53.002
143-215.6B                       53.106
143-215.6B(f)                    53.106
143-215.6B(g)                    53.106
143-215.6B(h)                    53.106
143-215.6B(i)                    53.106
143-215.51 to 143-215.61         152.01
143-318.11                       30.24
143-440 et seq.                  Chapter 92
153A-275                         53.001
Chapter 158                      31.02,
                                 31.03
Chapter 159                      31.02
159-18                           31.02,
                                 31.03
                                 Chapters
159-80 et seq.                   50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
160-175                          91.99
                                 Chapter 30,
Chapter 160A                     31.01 -
                                 31.04
Chapter 160A, Article 8          152.01
Chapter 160A, Article 10         50.37,
                                 50.38
Chapter 160A, Article 12         113.23
Chapter 160A, Article 16         33.33
Chapter 160A, Article 19, part 3 152.01
Chapter 160A, Article 19, part 5 152.01
Chapter 160A, Article 19, part 8 152.01
                                 Chapters
                                 50,
160A-76                          51,
                                 52, and
                                 115
160A-76(b)                       94.15
                                 Chapter 30,
160A-101                         31.01 -
                                 31.03
160A-163                         94.15
                                 32.35 -
                                 32.46,
                                 32.99,
                                 Chapter 90,
160A-174                         94.01,
                                 130.02,
                                 130.03,
                                 Chapter 131,
                                 132.01
160A-174 to 160A-205.3           152.01
                                 70.99,
160A-175                         116.01,
                                 116.05,
                                 116.06
160A-175(d)                      110.48
160A-175(d),(e)                  110.99
                                 Chapters
160A-176                         50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
160A-182                         Chapter 92
160A-183                         94.15
                                 Chapters
160A-184                         91,
                                 92, and
                                 132
                                 Chapters
160A-185                         50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
160A-186                         Chapter 92
160A-187                         Chapter 92
160A-188                         Chapter 92
                                 Chapters
                                 50,
                                 51,
                                 52,
160A-193                         54,
                                 90, and
                                 92,
                                 90.52,
                                 94.01,
                                 94.02
                                 Chapters
160A-194                         92 and
                                 150
160A-205.4                       116.01
160A-205.4 et seq.               116.01
160A-207                         110.47
160A-212                         Chapter 92
                                 Chapters
                                 50,
160A-216 et seq.                 51, and
                                 52,
                                 150.30
160A-265 et seq.                 113.23
                                 32.01,
160A-281 et seq.                 32.02,
                                 32.04,
                                 32.06
                                 32.01,
160A-282                         32.02,
                                 32.06
                                 32.01,
                                 32.02,
160A-283                         32.04,
                                 32.06,
                                 94.15
                                 32.01,
160A-284                         32.02,
                                 32.04,
                                 32.06
160A-291 et seq.                 94.15
160A-293                         94.16
                                 Chapters
                                 50,
160A-296 et seq.                 51,
                                 52,
                                 72, and
                                 73
160A-303                         95.02
160A-303.2                       95.02
                                 Chapters
160A-311 et seq.                 50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
160A-312                         53.001
                                 Chapters
160A-319                         50,
                                 51, and
                                 52
160A-350 et seq.                 Chapter 93
160A-381 to 160A-394             152.01
160A-411 to 160A-440             152.01
160A-456 to 160A-459.1           152.01
160A-493                         Chapter 92
160D-109                         150.20
160D-200                         150.02
160D-202                         150.02
160D-903                         150.02
Chapter 160D, Article 11         154.27
160D-1119                        150.35
160D-1119 to 160D-1122           150.35
160D-1129                        154.02
160D-1129(i)                     154.27
160D-1129(j)                     154.29
160D-1201                        150.02
160D-1201 to 160D-1212           150.02
160D-1202                        150.04
160D-1203(4)                     150.27,
                                 150.29
160D-1203(5)                     150.27
160D-1203(7)                     150.30
160D-1203(8)                     150.27
160D-1203(8)(d)                  150.27,
                                 154.24
160D-1203(8)(f)                  150.27
160D-1206                        150.27
160D-1208                        150.27,
                                 154.24
160D-1208(d)                     150.27,
                                 154.24
Chapter 163                      Chapter 30,
                                 31.02
164-7                            10.14
166A-19.31                       32.99
188-1010                         116.05
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 2003 CODE
2003 Code Section 2023 Code Section
2003 Code Section          2023 Code Section
1-100                      10.01
1-101                      10.05
1-204                      10.19
1-205                      10.20
1-206                      10.21
1-207                      10.22
1-209                      10.99
1-210                      10.07
2-101                      33.01
2-102                      30.01
2-103                      30.15
2-104                      34.01
2-105                      34.02
2-106                      34.03
2-201                      30.16
2-202                      30.17
2-203                      30.18
2-204                      30.19
2-205                      30.20
2-206                      30.21
2-207                      30.22
2-208                      30.23
2-301                      33.15
2-302                      33.16
2-303                      33.17
2-401                      33.30
2-402                      33.31
2-403                      33.31
2-404                      33.32
2-405                      33.33
2-406                      33.34
2-407                      33.34
2-408                      33.35
2-501                      31.01
2-502                      31.02
2-503                      31.03
2-504                      31.04
3-101                      111.01
3-102                      111.02
3-103                      111.03
3-201                      111.15
3-202                      111.16
3-202.1                    111.16
3-202.2                    111.16
3-202.3                    111.16
3-202.4                    111.16
3-202.5                    111.16
3-202.6                    111.16
3-202.7                    111.16
3-202.8                    111.16
3-202.9                    111.16
3-203                      111.17
3-204                      111.18
3-205                      111.19
3-206                      111.99
3-207                      111.20
Chapter 3, Article III     111.04
4-100                      113.01
4-101.1                    113.02
4-101.2                    113.02
4-102.1                    113.03
4-102.2                    113.03
4-102.3                    113.03
4-201                      113.15
4-202                      113.16
4-203                      113.17
4-204                      113.18
4-205                      113.19
4-206                      113.20
4-207                      113.21
4-208.1                    113.22
4-208.2                    113.22
4-208.3                    113.22
4-208.3.1                  113.22
4-208.3.2                  113.22
4-208.3.3                  113.22
4-208.3.4                  113.22
4-209                      113.23
4-209.1                    113.23
4-209.2                    113.23
4-209.3                    113.23
4-209.4                    113.23
4-209.5                    113.23
4-209.6                    113.23
4-209.8                    113.23
4-209.9                    113.23
4-209.10                   113.23
4-209.11                   113.23
4-209.12                   113.23
4-209.13                   113.23
4-401                      113.24
4-402                      113.24
4-403                      113.24
4-404                      113.24
4-501                      113.25
4-502                      113.25
4-503                      113.25
4-504                      113.25
6-101                      92.01
6-102                      92.01
6-103                      92.01
6-104                      92.01
6-105                      92.01
6-106                      92.01
6-200                      92.02
6-201                      92.02
6-300                      92.15
6-301                      92.16
6-302                      92.17
6-303                      92.18
6-304                      92.19
6-305                      92.20
6-306                      92.21
6-307                      92.22
6-308                      92.99
6-309                      92.03
8-100                      94.15
8-200.1                    94.16
8-200.2                    94.16
8-201                      94.17
8-202                      94.18
8-203                      94.19
8-204                      94.20
8-205                      94.21
8-206                      94.22
8-207                      94.23
8-208                      94.24
8-209                      94.24
8-210                      94.24
8-300                      32.20
8-301                      32.21
8-303                      32.22
8-401                      32.23
9-100                      132.01
9-201                      132.02
9-202                      132.02
9-203                      132.02
9-204                      132.02
9-205                      132.02
9-206                      132.02
9-207                      132.02
9-208                      132.02
9-301                      132.03
9-302                      132.03
9-401                      132.04
9-402                      132.04
9-402.1                    132.04
9-402.2                    132.04
9-402.3                    132.04
9-500                      132.05
9-501                      132.05
9-502                      132.05
9-503                      132.05
9-504                      132.05
9-601                      132.06
9-602                      132.06
9-603                      132.06
9-604                      132.06
9-605                      132.06
9-606                      132.06
9-607                      132.06
9-608                      132.06
9-609                      132.06
9-700                      132.07
9-701                      132.07
9-702                      132.07
9-703                      132.07
9-704                      132.07
9-705                      132.07
9-801                      132.08
9-802                      132.08
9-901                      132.09
9-902                      132.09
9-903                      132.09
Chapter 9, Article X       132.99
Chapter 10, Article 1, § A152.01
Chapter 10, Article 1, § B152.02
Chapter 10, Article 1, § C152.03
Chapter 10, Article 1, § D152.04
Chapter 10, Article 2      152.05
Chapter 10, Article 3, § A152.06
Chapter 10, Article 3, § B152.07
Chapter 10, Article 3, § C152.08
Chapter 10, Article 3, § D152.09
Chapter 10, Article 3, § E152.10
Chapter 10, Article 3, § F152.11
Chapter 10, Article 3, § G152.12
Chapter 10, Article 3, § H152.99
Chapter 10, Article 4, § A152.25
Chapter 10, Article 4, § B152.40
Chapter 10, Article 4, § C152.41
Chapter 10, Article 4, § D152.26,
                           152.27
Chapter 10, Article 4, § E152.28
Chapter 10, Article 5, § A152.13
Chapter 10, Article 5, § B152.14
11-101                     54.01
11-102                     54.02
11-103                     54.03
11-104                     54.04
11-105                     54.05
11-106                     94.02
11-201                     54.20
11-202                     54.21
11-203                     54.22
11-204                     54.23
11-205                     54.24
Chapter 11, Article III    54.06
11-401.1                   112.01
11-401.2                   112.01
11-402                     112.02
11-402.1                   112.02
11-402.2                   112.02
11-403                     112.03
11-403.1                   112.03
11-403.2                   112.03
11-403.3                   112.03
11-404                     112.04
11-405                     112.05
11-406                     112.06
11-407                     112.07
11-408.1                   112.08
11-408.2                   112.08
11-409                     112.09
Chapter 11, Article V      112.10
12-101                     90.01
12-102                     90.02
12-201                     90.15
12-203                     90.16
12-204                     90.17
12-301                     90.30
12-302                     90.31
12-303                     90.32
12-304                     90.33
12-305                     90.34
12-306                     90.35
12-306.1                   90.35
12-306.2                   90.35
12-306.3                   90.35
12-306.4                   90.35
12-306.5                   90.35
12-306.6                   90.35
12-306.7                   90.35
12-401                     90.50
12-401.1                   90.50
12-401.2                   90.50
12-401.3                   90.50
12-401.4                   90.50
12-401.5                   90.50
12-402.1                   90.51
12-402.2                   90.51
12-402.3                   90.51
12-403.1                   90.52
12-403.2                   90.52
12-403.3                   90.52
12-404                     90.53
12-501                     94.01
13-100                     95.01
13-100.1                   95.02
13-100.11                  95.02
13-100.12                  95.02
13-100.13                  95.02
13-100.14                  95.02
13-100.2                   95.02
13-100.3                   95.02
13-100.4                   95.02
13-100.41                  95.02
13-100.42                  95.02
13-100.43                  95.02
13-100.5                   95.02
13-100.51                  95.02
13-100.52                  95.02
13-100.53                  95.02
13-100.54                  95.02
13-100.55                  95.02
13-100.56                  95.02
13-100.57                  95.02
13-100.58                  95.02
13-100.59                  95.02
13-101.1                   95.03
13-101.2                   95.03
13-102.1                   95.04
13-102.2                   95.04
13-201.1                   95.05
13-201.2                   95.05
13-201.3                   95.05
13-201.4                   95.06
13-201.41                  95.06
13-201.42                  95.06
13-201.43                  95.06
13-201.44                  95.06
13-201.45                  95.06
13-201.51                  95.07
13-201.52                  95.08
13-300                     95.09
13-301                     95.10
13-303.1                   95.10
13-303.11                  95.10
13-303.12                  95.10
13-303.13                  95.10
13-303.14                  95.10
13-303.15                  95.10
13-303.16                  95.10
13-303.2                   95.10
13-304                     95.11
13-304.1                   95.11
13-304.2                   95.11
13-304.3                   95.11
13-304.4                   95.11
13-304.5                   95.11
13-305                     95.12
13-306                     95.13
13-307                     95.14
13-308                     95.15
13-309                     95.16
13-310                     95.17
13-311                     95.18
14-100                     93.01
14-200                     93.02
14-201                     93.03
14-202                     93.04
14-203                     93.05
14-204                     93.06
14-205                     93.07
14-206                     93.08
14-207                     93.09
14-208                     93.10
14-209                     93.11
14-210                     93.12
14-211                     93.13
14-212                     93.14
14-213                     93.15
14-214                     93.16
14-215                     93.17
14-216                     93.18
14-217                     93.19
15-100.1                   110.01
15-100.2                   110.01
15-100.3                   110.01
15-101                     110.02
15-102                     110.03
15-103                     110.04
15-104                     110.05
15-105.1                   110.06
15-105.2                   110.06
15-106                     110.07
15-107                     110.08
15-108                     110.99
15-109                     110.09
15-110                     110.10
15-110.1                   110.10
15-110.2                   110.10
15-111.1                   110.11
15-111.2                   110.11
15-111.3                   110.11
15-111.4                   110.11
15-200                     110.25
15-200.1                   110.25
15-200.2                   110.25
15-200.3                   110.25
15-200.4                   110.25
15-200.5                   110.25
15-200.6                   110.25
15-201                     110.26
15-202                     110.27
15-202.1                   110.27
15-202.2                   110.27
15-203                     110.28
15-204                     110.29
15-205                     110.30
15-206                     110.31
15-207                     110.32
15-208                     110.33
15-209                     110.34
15-209.1                   110.34
15-209.2                   110.34
15-209.3                   110.34
15-210                     110.35
15-211                     110.36
15-212                     110.37
15-212.1                   110.37
15-212.2                   110.37
15-212.3                   110.37
15-213                     110.38
15-214                     110.39
15-215                     110.40
15-216                     110.41
15-217                     110.42
15-218                     110.43
15-219                     110.44
15-219.1                   110.44
15-219.2                   110.44
15-219.3                   110.44
15-219.4                   110.44
15-220                     110.45
15-221                     110.46
15-222.1                   110.47
15-222.2                   110.47
15-222.3                   110.47
15-222.4                   110.47
15-222.5                   110.47
15-223.1                   110.48
15-223.2                   110.48
15-225                     110.49,
                           110.50
16-100                     Chapter 73, Schedule I
16-105                     Chapter 73, Schedule I
16-106                     Chapter 73, Schedule I
16-107.1                   Chapter 73, Schedule I
16-107.2                   Chapter 73, Schedule I
16-201                     Chapter 72, Schedule III
16-202                     Chapter 72, Schedule III
16-300                     Chapter 72, Schedule I
16-401                     Chapter 72, Schedule II
16-402                     Chapter 72, Schedule II
16-501                     Chapter 72, Schedule IV
16-502                     Chapter 72, Schedule IV
16-503                     Chapter 72, Schedule IV
Chapter 17                 91.01
17-101                     91.02
17-101.1                   91.02
17-101.2                   91.02
17-101.3                   91.02
17-101.4                   91.02
17-101.5                   91.02
17-101.6                   91.02
17-101.7                   91.02
17-101.8                   91.02
17-101.9                   91.02
17-102                     91.03
17-102.1                   91.03
17-102.2                   91.03
17-102.3                   91.03
17-201                     91.15
17-202                     91.16
17-203                     91.17
17-204                     91.18
17-204.1                   91.18
17-204.2                   91.18
17-204.3                   91.18
17-204.4                   91.18
17-300                     91.30
17-301                     91.30
17-302                     91.30
17-303                     91.30
17-304                     91.30
17-305                     91.30
17-306                     91.31
17-307                     91.32
17-307.1                   91.32
17-307.2                   91.32
17-307.3                   91.32
17-307.4                   91.32
17-307.5                   91.32
17-307.6                   91.32
17-307.7                   91.32
17-307.8                   91.32
17-307.9                   91.32
17-307.10                  91.32
17-307.11                  91.32
17-307.12                  91.32
17-307.13                  91.32
17-307.14                  91.32
17-401                     91.45
17-402                     91.45
17-403                     91.46
17-404                     91.47
17-405                     91.48
17-406.1                   91.49
17-406.2                   91.49
17-406.3                   91.49
17-406.4                   91.49
17-406.5                   91.50
17-406.6                   91.51
17-501                     91.99
17-502                     91.99
17-503                     91.99
17-504                     91.99
17-505                     91.99
18-102                     130.02
18-103                     131.01
18-104                     131.02
18-105                     131.03
18-106                     131.04
18-107                     131.05
18-108                     131.06
18-109                     131.07
18-201                     32.35
18-202                     32.36
18-202.2                   32.37
18-202.3                   32.38
18-202.4.1                 32.39
18-202.5.1                 32.39
18-202.5.2                 32.39
18-202.5.3                 32.39
18-202.5.4                 32.40
18-203                     32.41
18-204                     32.42
18-205                     32.43,
                           32.99
18-206                     32.44
18-207                     32.45
18-208                     32.46
18-300                     130.03
18-301                     130.03
19.101                     31.15
19.102                     31.16
19.103                     31.17
19.104                     31.18
19.105                     31.19
19.106                     31.20
19.108                     31.22
19.109                     31.23
19.200                     31.21
19.201                     31.21
19.202                     31.21
19.203                     31.21
19.204                     31.21
19.205                     31.21
19.206                     31.21
19.207                     31.21
19.208                     31.21
19.209                     31.21
19.210                     31.21
19.211                     31.21
19.212                     31.21
21-1.00                    32.01
21-2.00                    32.02
21-3.00                    32.03
21-4.00                    32.04
21-5.00                    32.05
21-6.00                    32.06
22-2.01                    112.25
22-2.02                    112.26
22-2.02.1                  112.26
22-2.02.2                  112.26
22-2.02.3                  112.26
22-2.02.4                  112.26
22-2.02.5                  112.26
22-2.02.6                  112.26
22-2.03                    112.27
22-2.04                    112.99
23-100                     151.01
23-101                     151.01
23-102                     151.01
23-103                     151.02
23-104                     151.03
23-201                     151.15
23-202                     151.16
23-203                     151.17
23-204                     151.18
23-205                     151.19
23-206                     151.20
23-207                     151.21
23-301                     151.35
23-302                     151.36
23-302.1                   151.36
23-302.2                   151.36
23-302.3                   151.36
23-303                     151.36
23-304                     151.37
23-305                     151.38
23-306                     151.39
23-401                     151.50
23-402                     151.51
23-403                     151.51
23-404                     151.52
23-405                     151.53
23-501                     151.65
23-502                     151.66
23-503                     151.67
23-504                     151.68
24-1.01                    115.01
24-1.02                    115.02
24-1.03                    115.15
24-1.04                    115.16
24-1.05                    115.17
24-1.06                    115.18
24-1.07                    115.03
24-1.08                    115.19
24-1.09                    115.20
24-1.10                    115.21
24-1.11                    115.22
24-1.12                    115.23
24-1.13                    115.24
24-1.14                    115.25
24-1.15                    115.26
24-2.01                    115.40
24-2.02                    115.41
24-2.02.1                  115.41
24-2.02.2                  115.41
24-2.02.3                  115.41
24-2.02.4                  115.41
24-2.02.5                  115.41
24-2.03                    115.42
24-2.04                    115.43
24-2.04.1                  115.43
24-2.04.2                  115.43
24-2.04.3                  115.43
24-2.05                    115.44
24-2.06                    115.45
24-2.07                    115.46
24-2.08                    115.47
25-1.1                     53.001
25-1.2                     53.002,
                           53.003
25-2.1                     53.015
25-2.2                     53.016
25-2.3                     53.017
25-2.4                     53.018
25-2.5                     53.019
25-2.6                     53.020
25-2.7                     53.021
25-2.8                     53.022
25-2.9                     53.023
25-2.10                    53.024
25-3.1                     53.035
25-3.2                     53.036
25-3.3                     53.037
25-3.4                     53.038
25-4.1                     53.050
25-4.2                     53.051
25-5.1                     53.065
25-5.2                     53.066
25-5.3                     53.067
25-5.4                     53.068
25-5.5                     53.069
25-5.6                     53.070
25-5.7                     53.071
25-5.8                     53.072
25-5.9                     53.073
25-5.10                    53.074
25-5.11                    53.075
25-5.12                    53.076
25-5.13                    53.077
25-6.1                     53.090
25-6.2                     53.091
25-6.3                     53.092
25-7                       53.093
25-8.1                     53.105
25-8.2                     53.999
25-8.3                     53.106
25-8.4                     53.107
25-9                       53.108
25-10.1                    53.120
25-10.2                    53.121
25-10.3                    53.122
25-11                      53.004
25-100                     50.01
25-101                     50.02
25-102                     50.03
25-103                     50.04
25-104                     50.05
25-105                     50.06
25-200                     50.07
25-301                     50.20
25-302                     50.21
25-303                     50.22
25-401                     50.35
25-402                     50.36
25-403.1                   50.37
25-403.2                   50.38
25-404                     50.39
25-405                     50.40
25-500                     51.01
25-501                     51.02
25-502                     51.03
25-503                     51.04
25-504                     51.05
25-600                     52.01
25-601                     52.02
25-602                     52.03
25-603                     52.04
25-604                     52.05
25-605                     52.06
25-606                     52.07
25-607                     52.08
25-608                     52.09
25-609                     52.10
25-610                     50.99
25-700                     50.08
25-806.1                   50.09
26-100.2                   111.35
26-100.3                   111.35
26-100.4                   111.35
26-100.5                   111.35
26-100.6                   111.35
26-100.6(a)                111.36
26-100.6(b)                111.37
26-100.6(c)                111.38
26-100.6(d)                111.99
Chapter 27                 30.24
Chapter 28                 153.02,
                           153.03
28.1                       153.01
28.2                       153.04
28.3                       153.05
28.4                       153.06
28.5                       153.07
28.6                       153.08
28.7                       153.09
28.8                       153.10
28.9                       153.11
28.10                      153.12
28.11                      153.13
28.13                      153.14
28.14                      153.15
28.15                      153.16,
                           153.99
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
0-25-09     9-28-2009   130.01
0-26-10     7-26-2010   91.15
0-12-12     5-14-2012   110.49
                        74.01 -
–         9-28-2015   74.05,
                        74.99
–         8-28-2017   113.03
0-8-19      3-11-2019   113.02,
                        113.03
                        114.01 -
0-9-19      4-8-2019    114.11,
                        114.99
                        110.01,
–         9-13-2021   110.60 -
                        110.63,
                        110.99
–         9-27-2021   70.01,
                        91.31
COA-2021-02 11-8-2021   113.02
                        150.01 -
                        150.05,
                        150.20 -
                        150.34,
                        150.45 -
                        150.54,
                        150.65 -
                        150.69,
–         6-27-2022   150.80 -
                        150.86,
                        150.99,
                        154.01 - 154.04,
                        154.20 -
                        154.29,
                        154.40 -
                        154.44,
                        154.99
                        70.99,
COA-2023-01 2-13-2023   71.01 -
                        71.09
–         6-12-2023   33.15 -
                        33.18
–         9-11-2023   Charter, Article III §
                        9
–         9-25-2023   116.01 -
                        116.06
–         1-8-2024    50.03
–         6-10-2024   33.40
                       
                       
 
Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.    Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
O-135-15    9-28-2015 Golf Carts
                      Building Regulation
                       
–         6-27-2022 150.01 - 150.05, 150.20 - 150.34, 150.45 - 150.54, 150.65
                      -150.69, 150.80 - 150.86, 150.99, 154.01 - 154.04, 154.20
                      - 154.29, 154.40 - 154.44, 154.99
                      Bicycles and Bikeways
COA-2023-01 2-13-2023  
                      70.99, 71.01 - 71.09
                      Finance
COA-2023-02 6-12-2023  
                      33.15 - 33.18
                      Length of the term of office of the Mayor
–         9-11-2023  
                      Charter, Article III § 9
                      Social District
–         9-25-2023  
                      116.01 - 116.06
                      Utilities
–         1-8-2024   
                      50.03
                      Motor Vehicle License Tax
–         6-10-2024  
                      35.40
                     
                     
                     
                     
 
 
 
