TOWN OF RICHLANDS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024, and
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #2
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   Session Laws of the General Assembly - 1880 A.D., Chapter 8
   AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS IN ONSLOW COUNTY
   The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
   Section 1. That the town of Richlands, in Onslow county, be and the same is
hereby incorporated by the name and style of the “Town of Richlands,” and shall
be subject to all provisions contained in chapter one hundred and eleven (111)
Battle’s Revisal, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this state
and the United States.
   Section 2. That the corporate limits of said town shall be as follows:
beginning at the center of the Methodist church, and running one-half mile
north, south, east and west, comprising one mile square.
   Section 3. That until their successors are elected under the laws of the
state, L. W. Hargett shall act as mayor, and Uzza Mills, S. J. Veach, F. D.
Koonce, shall act as commissioners and M. B. Steed shall act as marshal of said
town.
   Section 4. That it shall be the duty of the persons elected under the laws
of the state to go before some justice of the peace for said county and take an
oath prescribed by law within five (5) days after their election.
   Section 5. That all fines collected for violation of any town ordinance
shall go into the town treasury for the benefit of the town.
   Section 6. That no licenses shall be granted to sell spirituous liquors
within the corporate limits of the town by the commissioners.
   Section 7. This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Read three times in general assembly, and ratified the 29th day of March,
A.D. 1880.
Session Laws of the General Assembly - 1905 A.D., Chapter 417
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS IN THE COUNTY OF ONSLOW
   The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
   Section 1. That the Town of Richlands in the county of Onslow be and
continue to be, as it heretofore has been, and is hereby declared to be
incorporated into a body politic and corporate by the name and style of the
“Town of Richlands,” and shall have the usual powers of such corporations, and
under said corporate name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, contract
and be contracted with, and may acquire, hold, own, possess and convey
property, real and personal, for the use and benefit of said town, and may make
all needful rules, regulations, by-laws and ordinances for the government,
improvement, health and welfare of the inhabitants of said Town, not
inconsistent with the laws and Constitution of the United States and of the
State of North Carolina.
   Section 2. That the corporate limits of said Town shall be as follows, viz:
Beginning at the center of the Methodist Church Building in said Town and
running north one-half mile and running from the center of said building east
one-half mile, and running from center of said building south one-half mile,
and running from center of said building west one-half mile, and shall comprise
one mile square.
   Section 3. That on the first Tuesday in May, one thousand nine hundred and
five, and every two years thereafter, an election shall be held at the usual
voting place in said Town by the qualified voters therein as hereinafter
prescribed for a mayor and five aldermen and a town constable for said town,
who shall hold their offices for two years from their election and until their
successors are elected and qualified; and every person elected as mayor or
aldermen or town constable who shall willfully neglect or refuse to qualify on
the first Monday following his election, and willfully neglect or refuse to
perform the duties of the office to which he may have been chosen after being
duly notified of his election thereto by a written notice given within three
days from the date of such election by the pollholders (and) registrar of said
election, shall forfeit and pay the sum of twenty-five dollars to the use and
benefit of said town, which may be recovered before any justice of the peace of
Onslow County in the name of the “Town of Richlands” for the use and benefit of
said town, or, in failure to pay said penalty, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not exceeding fifty dollars or imprisoned not exceeding
thirty days: Provided, that no person shall be eligible to the office of mayor
or aldermen of said town who is not qualified voter thereof and freeholder
therein and who has not been a bona fide resident of the town for ninety days
before the day of election. No person shall be required to serve in any of said
offices two terms in succession:
   Provided further, that no person shall be qualified to vote at any election
for officers of said town unless such person shall be duly registered upon the
book of registered voters of said town, and in addition to being qualified
voter for members of the General Assembly of North Carolina, shall have been a
bona fide resident of said town for ninety days prior to the date of the
election. And in case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, for any cause, after
his election, the board of aldermen shall appoint a qualified person to serve
as mayor until the next ensuing election and until the person then elected as
mayor shall be duly sworn, qualified and inducted into office. And in case of a
vacancy in the office of alderman, the board shall elect a qualified person to
act as alderman until the next ensuing election and until the person then
elected as alderman shall be duly sworn, qualified and inducted into office.
   Section 4. That the aldermen of the town shall give notice shall be posted
at three public places in the corporate limits of the town at least ten days
before the time of holding said election; and all elections for officers of
said town shall be held by two persons styled pollholders of the election and
the registrar of the qualified voters of the town, and who shall be appointed
for that purpose by the aldermen of the town; and shall be duly sworn by the
mayor or other person authorized to administer oaths to truly, fairly,
honestly, impartially and lawfully hold and conduct said election; and at its
close announce the result thereof. It shall be the duty of the aldermen to
cause a registration to be made of all the qualified voters residing in said
town and entitled to vote therein under the rules and regulations prescribed
for the registration of voters for general election; and in case of a vacancy
for any cause in the office of registrar, the mayor of said town shall be
authorized and empowered to fill the vacancy by appointing some suitable person
to act; and in case either one of the pollholders should fail to attend at the
time, and place for holding the election, the registrar and the pollholders
present may appoint some suitable person to act in place of the absent
pollholders; and in the absence of both pollholders, the registrar and mayor
may appoint suitable persons to act; and said pollholders and registrar, after
being duly sworn as hereinbefore prescribed, shall open, hold and close said
election in the manner directed by the general election laws of the State, and
declare the result at the close thereof. The pollholders and registrar shall
within three days thereafter transmit to the Register of Deeds of Onslow County
an abstract of the votes cast, and for whom, and for what offices, and the
names of the persons declared elected to the several offices, and shall also
within three days deposit and file with the aldermen of the town the pollbook
and registrations of said elections; and the said pollholders and registrar
shall also within three days from the holding of said election give notice in
writing to the several persons elected to the respective offices, who shall
meet and qualify and enter upon the performance of the duties of their
respective offices on the Monday following. All outgoing or retiring officers
of said town shall yield, surrender and deliver to their successors all
property and rights of property, moneys, books, accounts, records, writings,
papers, and other things in their keeping, belonging to said town; and on
failure or refusal to do so, after demands made by their successors, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction in a court of a justice of
the peace of Onslow County be fined not exceeding fifty dollars or imprisoned
not exceeding thirty days.
   Section 5. The person elected or appointed mayor of the town, before
entering upon the performance of his duties, shall, on the Monday following the
notification of his election or appointment, take and subscribe an oath to
support the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Constitution and
laws of North Carolina, and to well, truly and faithfully perform the duties of
mayor of said town to the best of his ability, which oath shall be administered
by a justice of the peace of Onslow County or other officer duly empowered to
administer oaths for general purposes, and shall be filed with the board of
aldermen. The Mayor of the Town of Richlands while acting as such is hereby
constituted an official court with the same jurisdiction and powers in criminal
offenses committed or occurring within the limits of said town as now are or
hereafter may be given by law to justices of the peace. The mayor shall also
have full jurisdiction to hear and determine all misdemeanors consisting of a
violation of any of the ordinances of said town. The proceedings in said court
shall be the same as now are or hereafter shall be provided for courts of
justices of the peace, and in all cases there shall be a right of appeal from
the mayor’s court to the superior court of the county. And in all cases wherein
a defendant may be adjudged to be imprisoned it shall be competent for the
mayor to also adjudge that the said defendant shall work during the period of
his confinement upon the public streets or other public work of said town. The
mayor may issue his precepts to the Chief of Police and to such other officers
to whom a justice of the peace may direct his precepts.
   Section 6. That the mayor shall keep a full, true and perfect record of all
precepts issued by him and of all his judicial proceedings. The judgments
rendered by him shall have all the force, virtue and validity of judgments
rendered by a justice of the peace.
   Section 7. That the mayor when present shall preside at all meetings of the
Board of Aldermen, and when there is an equal division upon any question or in
the election of officers by the board, he shall decide the matter by his vote;
he shall vote in no other case. If he shall be absent at any meeting of the
board, the aldermen may appoint one of their number to preside pro tempore and
exercise the duties of the mayor of said meeting, as well as during the absence
of the mayor from the town, or his inability.
   Section 8. That every person elected as alderman or appointed as such shall,
before entering upon the performance of duties of his office and on the Monday
following his election or appointment, take and subscribe an oath to support
the Constitution and laws of the United States and of the State of North
Carolina, and to well, truly and faithfully perform the duties of alderman of
said town to the best of his ability, which oath may be administered by the
mayor or a justice of the peace of Onslow County, and filed with the mayor.
That the aldermen shall form one board, and a majority of them shall be
competent to perform all the duties prescribed, unless otherwise provided. At
their first meeting they shall fix stated days of meetings for the year, which
shall not be less than one time in every month; special meetings of the
aldermen may also be held on the call of the mayor or by the call of a majority
of the aldermen; and of every such meeting, when called by the mayor, all the
aldermen shall be notified of the time of meeting, and when called by a
majority of the aldermen, such as shall not join in the call shall be notified
of the time of meeting.
   Section 9. That the Board of Aldermen when convened shall have power to make
and provide for the execution and carrying out of such ordinances, by-laws,
rules, and regulations for the government, improvement, health and welfare of
the inhabitants of said town as they may deem necessary, not in conflict with
this act nor with the laws of the land; and to affix penalty thereto for
violation thereof; to make by-laws, rules and regulations for the proper
conduct and government of these corporate meetings, with the penalties
attached; to cause to be erected necessary prison-house, market-house, and
provide for keeping the same cleanly and in good sanitary condition; to provide
for constructing and keeping in good order public pumps and wells of drinking
water; to appoint inspectors of wood, and for weighing and inspection of
cotton, tar, and other products of the country; to provide how such weight and
inspection shall be paid; to appoint town watchmen or patrols and to do all
other acts and things which in their judgment may be necessary for the
improvements, welfare, health, and good government of the inhabitants of said
town; and the said by-laws, rules, regulations and ordinances from time to time
to alter, change, amend or discontinue, when they or the majority of the said
aldermen shall deem the same necessary, and publish and post all such as are
passed ten days before going into effect.
   Section 10. That the violation of any ordinance of said town shall be a
misdemeanor, but the punishment thereof shall not exceed a fine of fifty
dollars nor exceed imprisonment for thirty days.
   Section 11. That the Board of Aldermen shall have the power to open, lay out
and widen any street, lane or avenue within the limits of said town whenever
deemed necessary by them, and shall have power to enlarge, extend, change or
discontinue any street or streets or any part thereof in the corporated limits
of the town, and shall have full power and authority to condemn, appropriate or
use any land or lands necessary for any of the purposes named in this section
upon making a reasonable compensation to the owners of said land. In case the
owners of the land and the aldermen do not agree as to the amount of damages,
then the matter shall be referred to arbitrators, each party choosing one, who
shall be a freeholder and a resident of the town; and in case the owner of the
land shall refuse to choose such arbitrator, the sheriff of the county shall
select one for him; and in case the two arbitrators chosen as prescribed do not
agree they shall select an umpire whose duty it shall be to examine the land
condemned and ascertain the amount of damages sustained, and the benefit
accruing to the owner in consequence of the change; and the award of the
arbitrators or umpire shall be conclusive of the rights of the parties, and
shall vest in the aldermen the right and power to use the land for the purposes
specified; and all damage agreed upon by the aldermen or awarded by the
arbitrators or umpire shall be paid as other town liabilities, by taxation:
Provided, either party may appeal to the Superior Court of the county as
provided by law.
   Section 12. That among the powers hereby conferred upon the Board of
Aldermen are the powers to order a new registration of voters at any and all
town elections if they deem it proper to do so; to take all proper means to
prevent and extinguish fires; to appoint and regulate a police force; to make
regulations to cause the due observance of Sunday; to provide for repairing and
cleansing the streets and building bridges at necessary points; to provide
suitable places for imprisonment of persons adjudged guilty of violations of
town ordinance; to regulate the markets; to execute such precepts as the mayor
and other authorized persons may lawfully issue to them; to declare, suppress
and abate all nuisances; to preserve the health of the inhabitants of the town
from exposure to contagious or infectious diseases; to preserve the peace and
order of the town; to prohibit the firing of guns, pistols, gunpowder, fire-
crackers, or other explosives, combustible or dangerous materials, within the
corporate limits of the town; to impose annually a tax per capita on all dogs
running at large or kept within the corporate limits of the town, not exceeding
five dollars upon each dog; to prohibit all horses, mules, cattle, swine,
geese, sheep and goats from running at large upon the streets, public grounds
or in any public place in the corporate limits of the town; and to declare all
such animals and fowls so running at large a nuisance, and may at their option
impose a fine upon the owner or owners of such animals and fowls so running at
large not to exceed ten dollars for each animal and one dollar upon each fowl,
or may treat the same as nuisances and abate or suppress the same as other
nuisances are abated or suppressed. And the owner of any dog who shall fail or
refuse to pay the tax imposed upon such dog running at large within the
corporate limits of the town shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not
exceeding twenty dollars or imprisoned not exceeding thirty days. And the owner
or owners of such animals and fowls as are found running at large within the
corporate limits of said town, who shall fall or refuse to pay the fine imposed
in this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not exceeding fifty
dollars or imprisoned not exceeding thirty days.
   Section 13. The Board of Aldermen shall have power to appoint and provide
for the pay and prescribe the duties of all such subordinate officers of said
town as may be necessary. The Board of Aldermen shall also have power to make
contracts in the name of the “Town of Richlands,” and as such to become the
owners or part owners of electric light plants and water plants, and to
contract with persons or corporations for light and water supplies for the
inhabitants of said town, and shall have the power to sell and grant franchises
to any persons or corporation, upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
to by the said Board of Aldermen of the one part and the contracting persons or
corporation of the other part. But no mayor, nor aldermen, nor other officer of
said town shall directly or indirectly become a contractor for any work to be
done by said town, or for its improvement; and any officer of said town
violating this provision shall be removed from office, and be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined not exceeding fifty dollars or imprisoned not exceeding
thirty days. That said Board of Aldermen shall have power to appoint from time
to time special police, who shall be subject to the control and direction of
the mayor.
   Section 14. That the Board of Aldermen of said town shall have the same
powers over levying, collecting and settling of the taxes of said town as the
Commissioners of the County of Onslow have over the taxes of the county:
Provided, that the taxes levied by said Board of Aldermen shall not exceed
thirty three and one-third cents on each one hundred dollars valuation of real
and personal property and one dollar on each poll.
   Section 15. That the Board of Aldermen of said town shall at some meeting
held not later than the first Monday of August, one thousand nine hundred and
five and every year thereafter, appoint three discreet freeholders, residents
of said town, who shall list and assess the real and personal property in said
town for taxation; said assessors shall ascertain the true valuation in money
of every lot or parcel of land or other real property with the improvements
thereon, and also all personal property, and assess the same in accordance with
said valuation; said assessors are authorized to administer oaths in all cases
necessary to obtain full and accurate information concerning taxable real and
personal property in said town.
   Section 16. Said board of assessors shall make a complete return of the
assessments, embracing an abstract of taxable property and taxable polls of
said town, to the Board of Aldermen on or before the second Monday in September
of each year, and annex the following affidavit, sworn to and subscribed before
some official authorized to administer oaths, viz: “We, the Assessors of the
Town of Richlands in the County of Onslow, make oath the foregoing list
contains, to the best of our knowledge and belief, all the real and personal
property and the number of polls required by law to be assessed in said town,
and that we have assessed every tract or parcel of land, or other real and
personal property at its true valuation in money and have endeavored to do
equal justice to the public and tax-payers concerned.”
   Section 17. That the Board of Aldermen of said town shall constitute a board
of equalization of said town and shall be subject to the same rules and
regulations as the county board of equalization of said county of Onslow.
   Section 18. That in addition to the persons and subjects of taxation
mentioned in section fourteen of this act, the Board of Aldermen of said town
shall have the power to levy and collect as herein specified a special license
or privilege tax on the following persons and subjects of taxation, viz: On all
itinerant or resident merchants, peddlers and auctioneers, an annual tax of ten
dollars; on each express company, each telegraph office, each railroad company
having an office or depot in the limits of the town, an annual tax of twenty
dollars; each photograph artist and persons taking the likeness of the human
face by whatsoever art, each broker, each bank, or banking office, each cotton
buyer, each dealer in patent rights, each sewing machine agent, each commission
merchant and each commercial broker, each livery-stable, each dairy, each
hotel, each fire or life insurance agent, each dealer in buggies, wagons or
other vehicles not manufactured in the town, each dealer in horse, mules, and
cattle, an annual tax of twenty-five dollars, to be levied and collected
quarterly, monthly or yearly, at the option of the Board of Aldermen of said
town as designated in their ordinances.
   Section 19. That in addition to the persons and subjects of taxation
mentioned in sections fourteen and eighteen of this act, the Board of Aldermen
may also levy a tax on the following subjects: the amount of such tax when
fixed shall be collected by the tax collector immediately: Upon every company
of circus riders who shall exhibit within the town, a tax not exceeding thirty
dollars for each separate exhibition, to be paid before the exhibition takes
place; if not so paid, the tax to be doubled. Upon each show or exhibition of
any kind and upon each concert or lecture for reward, five dollars for each
lecture or exhibition: Provided, that when the proceeds arising from any
concert, lecture or exhibition are to be devoted to any religious or charitable
use such tax shall not be imposed or collected.
   Section 20. That the tax list of the town, when made out, completed and
delivered to the tax collector, shall have the force and effect of a judgment
and execution against the property of the person or persons charged in such
list and may be enforced in the same manner by said collector as sheriff of the
county collect and enforce county and State taxes; and said collector shall
settle with the Board of Aldermen every month and account to them for all
moneys collected by him up to the day of such settlement, and for his services
shall receive such fees and commissions as may be allowed by the Board of
Aldermen, not to exceed in any case in the aggregate two dollars per day.
   Section 21. All taxes upon persons and property authorized in section 14 of
this act shall be due on the first Monday in October in each year, and when
paid the tax collector shall execute and deliver a proper receipt for the
amount of such tax, and note the judgment and the date thereof on the tax list
against the name of the party paying the same; and if the tax collector fails
to fully account with the Board of Aldermen for the amount of such taxes
collected by him every month, and oftener when required, he shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and removed from office by the Board of Aldermen.
   Section 22. The tax collector shall attend during the month of November in
each and every year at some stated place in said town for receiving and
collecting said taxes, of which fifteen days’ notice shall be given by
advertisements posted at three or more public places in said town: Provided,
that if the taxes shall not be paid before the first day of December the tax
collector may after that day levy and sell property to satisfy the amount of
the taxes owing by such persons as may have not previously paid the same; but
he shall not advertise not sell before the first day of January following.
   Section 23. That the Board of Aldermen shall have authority to put at work
and keep at work upon the streets or upon the public grounds of the town any
person or persons who shall fail or refuse to pay any fines, penalty, or
forfeiture which may have been imposed by the mayor of the town; and the said
aldermen shall have authority by the ordinances and by-laws of the town to
confine, manage and control such person or persons until the fine, penalty, or
forfeiture, together with the cost thereof, shall be fully paid and satisfied,
under such rates for labor and board as the aldermen may establish.
   Section 24. That the town constable shall be the tax collector of said town.
Before entering upon the performance of any duty he shall take the oath
prescribed for public officers and an oath that he will faithfully and
impartially discharge the duties of his office according to law. He shall take
this oath before a justice of the peace of Onslow County or other person duly
empowered to administer oaths for general purposes. As a peace officer the town
constable shall have within the town all the powers of a constable in the
county, and as a ministerial officer he shall have the same power as a
constable in the county to execute all precepts and process that may be issued
by the mayor or other lawful authority of the county and to enforce the
ordinances and regulations of the aldermen as they may direct. He shall have
the same powers to collect the town taxes imposed by the aldermen as sheriff’s
have to collect the taxes imposed by County Commissioners, and he shall execute
a bond payable to the State of North Carolina with good and sufficient surety
in such sum as the Board of Aldermen may prescribe, which shall not be less
than double the amount of the annual tax levied upon the taxable persons and
taxable property of the towns upon which the Board of Aldermen may institute
suit and prosecute the same to final judgment, for any default made or suffered
by the town constable. The bond herein required to be executed and delivered by
the town constable shall be duly proved before the mayor and aldermen and
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow County.
   Section 25. That it shall be lawful for the town constable to serve and
execute all civil or criminal process that may be directed and delivered to him
by any court in the County of Onslow under the same regulations and penalties
as prescribed by law in the case of other constables.
   Section 26. That policeman of the town shall have the same authority to make
arrests and execute criminal process within the corporate limits of the town as
is vested by law in a sheriff.
   Section 27. The Board of Aldermen shall annually publish an accurate
statement of the taxes levied and collected in the town, together with a
statement of the amount expended by them and for what purposes. And on failure
to comply with this section the said Board of Aldermen shall forfeit and pay
one hundred dollars, for which they shall be personally liable, and be guilty
of a misdemeanor. The penalty herein prescribed shall be recoverable by any
person who will sue for the same, and shall come to his own use and benefit.
   Section 28. That any person violating any of the by-laws, rules, regulations
or ordinances of the Town of Richlands shall not only be subject to the
penalties thereto attached, but also in addition thereto be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be fined not exceeding fifty dollars or imprisoned in
the county jail or a town lock-up not exceeding thirty days.
   Section 29. The mayor may issue his precepts to the town constable or to any
policeman of the town or to such other officers to whom a justice of the peace
may direct his precepts, and no preliminary affidavit shall be necessary to
give the mayor final jurisdiction over the offenses against the by-laws, rules,
regulations or ordinance of the said town.
   Section 30. That the expenses incurred in holding town election shall be
borne by the town, and every person shall be allowed to inspect the election
returns deposited with the Board of Aldermen as herein before provided, and
also to inspect and examine all journals, records, books, papers, and writings
in the custody of the Board of Aldermen, relating to the government of the town
and the administration of its affairs in any way connected there with.
   Section 31. That the Town of Richlands through the Board of Aldermen is
hereby vested with all the powers, rights, privileges and immunities as are
enacted in chapter sixty-two, volume two of The Code of North Carolina, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this act.
   Section 32. That the present town government of the Town of Richlands now in
existence and comprising the mayor and three commissioners shall continue in
existence until the election, qualification and induction into office of those
provided for in this act and to be chosen on the second Tuesday in May, one
thousand nine hundred and five, and L.W. Harget and Lee Mills shall be added to
the number of Town Commissioners, who shall henceforth be styled the Board of
Aldermen of the Town of Richlands, and said L.W. Harget and Lee Mills shall
qualify as aldermen of said town within twenty days after the ratification of
this act. The Mayor and Board of Aldermen shall provide for the holding of the
town election as prescribed in this act. The mayor now in office and the Board
of Aldermen as constituted by this section shall hold their offices until their
successors are elected, qualified and inducted into office. They and their
successors may continue in force the present method and system of keeping the
streets in good order until the first of November, one thousand nine hundred
and five.
   Section 33. That prohibition of the sale of spirituous and malt liquors,
wines, and cider with intoxicating qualities or powers within two miles of
Richlands Academy in said town, having been adopted and established by a vote
of the people upwards of forty five years and pursuant to legislative authority
and been in force ever since, such prohibition is hereby ratified and
confirmed, and any persons, firm or corporation selling, or offering for sale,
within two miles of Richlands Academy in said town, any spirituous or malt
liquors, wines or cider with intoxicating qualities, or medicated bitters with
intoxicating effect, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction fined
for each and every offense not exceeding fifty dollars or imprisoned not
exceeding thirty days.
   Section 34. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act
shall be and the same are hereby repealed.
   Section 35. That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times, and ratified this the 6th day of
March A. D. 1905.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2014-01
Introduced : January 14, 2014
Adopted: March 11, 2014
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS, NORTH
CAROLINA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of North Carolina empower
and authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of
such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the " Code of Ordinances of the Town of Richlands, North
Carolina. "
Section 2.   Such Code or Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
CHARTER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
PARALLEL REFERENCES
INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided; such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision of
the Town of Richlands, North Carolina, on this  11  day of  March , 2014.
Doreen Putney /s/                             McKinley D. Smith Sr. /s/
Attest:                                    Mayor McKinley D. Smith Sr.
Doreen Putney, Town Clerk
Approved as to Form:
Keith Fountain /s/
Attorney:
Keith Fountain
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Damaging ordinances prohibited
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Richlands shall be
designated as the Code of Richlands, North Carolina, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of the Town of
Richlands, North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Richlands, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Onslow, North Carolina, except as otherwise
provided.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GENERAL STATUTES or GS. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of Richlands, North Carolina.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Richlands, in the County of Onslow, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Rules of construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   “And” or “or”. Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by general statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter or section or any portion thereof, the repealed portions may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The subsequent
ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of repeal, shall be
prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are
readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Richlands, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Richlands, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed must be
specifically repealed by section or chapter number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, and unless this code of ordinances
provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50
or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance may provide by express
statement that the maximum fine or term or imprisonment to be imposed for its
violation shall be some figure or number of days less than the maximum
penalties prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   By express statement, an ordinance contained herein may provide for
its enforcement by other remedies, as authorized in G.S. § 160-175, including
the imposition of civil fines, the ordering of appropriate equitable relief,
including injunctions or a combination of remedies.
   (C)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(1987 Code, § 1-1-06)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing municipalities to employ alternate remedies in the enforcement
of local ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
      
32.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   FISCAL PROCEDURES
      
34.   DEPARTMENTAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATING ORGANIZATION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Powers and duties generally
   
30.03   Mayor; duties
   
30.04   Selection of Mayor pro tem
   
30.05   Power of Board over employees
   
30.06   Committees
   
30.07   Resignation of members
   
30.08   Compensation
Meetings
   
30.20   Regular meetings
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Adjourned meetings
   
30.23   Meetings open to public
Ordinances
   
30.40   Procedure, form, publication
   
30.41   Effective date
   
30.42   Official copy
   
30.43   Ordinance book
   
30.44   Ordinances adding to code
   
30.45   Improper amendments void
   
30.46   Ordinances confined to one subject
Committees
   
30.60   Purpose
   
30.61   Prior practice abolished; committee system adopted
   
30.62   Procedure for setting up committees
   
30.63   Meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   The governing body for the town shall consist of a Mayor and a Board of
Aldermen of five members, elected according to the uniform municipal election
laws of the state. The governing body shall be charged with the general
government and administration of the affairs of the town.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-01)
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as those set out in the
general statutes of the state, the town charter and the code of ordinances of
the town.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-02)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief elected officer of the town, and as such, shall
perform the following duties, unless otherwise directed by the Board of
Aldermen:
   (A)   Keep informed as to the town’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meeting of the Board of Aldermen;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the town,
and require reports from such committees and departments as may be necessary to
carry out the affairs of the town, but, at minimum, shall require a report to
the Board from each department within 30 days after the close of each fiscal
year;
   (F)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions;
   (G)   Direct and assist, as the representative of the Board, the Town
Administrator in his or her duties as prescribed in divisions (D) and (F) above
and (H) below; and
   (H)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes of the
state, the town charter and this code of ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-03)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.04 SELECTION OF MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   At the first meeting after its election, the Board of Aldermen shall
select one of its members to act as Mayor pro tem.
   (B)   The Mayor pro tem shall have no fixed term of office, but as such,
shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s absence or disability.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-04)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.05 POWER OF BOARD OVER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   In exercising its general supervisory authority over town employees,
the Board shall be expressly authorized to:
      (1)   Prescribe rules. Prescribe rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or expedient for the conduct of employees subject to its authority
and shall have the power to revoke, suspend or amend any rule or regulation;
      (2)   Investigate. Either by itself or any officer or person designated
for the purpose by it, investigate and examine or inquire into the affairs or
operation of any department, division or employee; and shall have the power to
employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in investigations,
examinations or inquires;
      (3)   Overrule officials. Set aside any action taken by town
administrative officials and may supersede them in the functions of their
offices;
      (4)   Delegate duties. Direct any official, department, division or
employee to perform the work for any other official, department, division or
employee;
      (5)   Provide for administrative committees. Designate committees as it
shall find necessary for the proper consideration of administrative problems.
The committees shall meet at the request of the Board and shall make
recommendation on matters referred to them as they shall find necessary for the
best interests of the town; and
      (6)   Summon employees. Require any employee of the town to appear before
and report to the Board at any meeting.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow any individual
member of the Board to direct any employee in the performance of his or her
duties and functions as an employee of the town.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-05)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of the Board to adopt personnel regulations, see G.S. § 160A-164
   Authority to conduct investigations, see G.S. § 160A-80
§ 30.06 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees shall, unless otherwise ordered, be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   All committees shall make reports to the Board upon request and
committee members shall receive any compensation for extra and special service
as the Board may designate.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-06)
§ 30.07 RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing, and the
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
accepted by the unanimous consent of all members of the Board.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-07)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of Board members shall be as provided in the annual budget
ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-08)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Board members, see G.S. § 160A-64
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the town shall be
held on the second Tuesday of each month, at 6:00 p.m., at the Richlands Town
Hall, 302 South Wilmington Street, Richlands, North Carolina.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-21)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be held in accordance with the provisions
set out in the applicable general statutes.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.22 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Board may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or
for more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than
until the next regular meeting thereafter.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-23)
§ 30.23 MEETINGS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   Except as provided in the Open Meetings Law of the state, all meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-26)
Statutory reference:
   Open meetings law, see G.S. §§ 143-318.9 through 143-318.18
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40 PROCEDURE, FORM, PUBLICATION.
   (A)   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new
ordinance shall be proposed in writing and shall be approved as to form by the
Town Attorney.
   (B)   Ordinances shall have ordinance and section captions.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-41)
§ 30.41 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof, except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordinance required by state
law to be effective only after having met specific statutory time requirements.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-42)
§ 30.42 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Town Clerk shall be known as an
official copy of any ordinance for the town.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-43)
Statutory reference:
   Pleading and proving municipal ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 30.43 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, both in the
Board’s official minute book, and in an ordinance book separate and apart from
the Board’s minute book.
   (B)   The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and maintained for
public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-44)
Statutory reference:
   Similar requirements on the ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
§ 30.44 ORDINANCES ADDING TO CODE.
   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the code a new chapter, subchapter
or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this code, the
proper number of the title, chapter, subchapter or section.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-45)
§ 30.45 IMPROPER AMENDMENTS VOID.
   It shall be unlawful for members of the Board to annul, abridge, modify or,
in any way, change any ordinance of the Board, except at a regular or special
meeting of the Board.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.46 ORDINANCES CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, except appropriation
ordinances, which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-47)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to formally set out the
organization of town government and to replace the former Departmental
Commissioner System with a Department Committee System to aid the Town
Administrator in the efficient handling of town business while keeping the
proper town officials and Aldermen advised and involved in town government.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-60)
§ 30.61 PRIOR PRACTICE ABOLISHED; COMMITTEE SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   The prior practice whereby the Mayor appointed one Alderman to head up each
of five town departments is hereby abolished in favor of a committee system, as
outlined herein.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-61)
§ 30.62 PROCEDURE FOR SETTING UP COMMITTEES.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting following election of the Board of
Aldermen, the Mayor shall designate the committees by title and department
head.
   (B)   The Mayor shall then designate two Aldermen to serve as Aldermen
members to each committee, in a roughly proportionate number of committees as
compared to all other Aldermen.
   (C)   Each committee shall consist of the Town Administrator as Chairperson,
the working department head and the two Aldermen appointed to the committee by
the Mayor.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-62)
§ 30.63 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The committee shall have a regularly scheduled meeting not less than
quarterly at a date set by the Chairperson with notice of not less than ten
days to all committee members. Department heads will attend, but employees will
only be required to attend in the event the Chairperson feels their presence is
necessary.
   (B)   The Chairperson or either one of the committee Aldermen may call a
meeting upon giving three days’ notice to the other members of the committee.
   (C)   Emergency meetings may be called at the discretion of the Chairperson
with only as much notice as is necessary to personally contact each committee
member.
   (D)   Meetings shall be presided over by the Chairperson and any action or
recommendation proposed must be approved by a majority vote of all committee
members.
   (E)   Regular reports of the committee meeting shall be made to the full
Board of Aldermen by the Chairperson at the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Board. Any report covering information which would normally be discussed in
executive session as provided in the State Open Meetings Law, being G.S. §§
143-318.9 through 143-318.18 will be provided only during an executive session.
   (F)   No action by a committee shall be taken that would normally be subject
to a vote by the full Board of Aldermen. However, the committee may study the
situation, gather information and present a recommendation or report to the
Board at the next regularly scheduled or called meeting.
(1987 Code, § 2-1-63)
CHAPTER 31: CHARTER AMENDMENTS
Section
   
31.01   Amendments to charter
§ 31.01 AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER.
   (A)   Amendment passed 3-18-1913.
Session Law of 1913, Chapter 387
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS, IN ONSLOW COUNTY, BEING
CHAPTER 417 OF THE PRIVATE LAWS OF 1905.
THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
Section 1. That section nineteen, chapter four hundred and seventeen, Private
Laws of one thousand nine hundred and five, be amended as follows: After word
“doubled,” in line eight, section nineteen, add the following: “And the Board
of Aldermen of said town shall have the power and authority to annually levy
and cause to be collected for the necessary expenses of the town such special
or privilege tax or taxes as may seem to them fair and equitable on every
trade, calling, or business, of whatever nature, carried on in said town:
Provided, the said tax is not prohibited by the general law of the State.”
Section 2. That section twenty-six, chapter four hundred and seventeen, Private
Laws of one thousand nine hundred and five, be amended as follows: After the
word “that,” in line one of said section and before the word “a” in said line
and section, add the following: “The mayor of said town of Richlands shall have
the power to appoint”; and after the word “town” and before the word “shall,”
in said line in said section, insert the word “who.”
Section 3. That section twenty-seven, chapter four hundred and seventeen,
Private Laws of one thousand nine hundred and five, be amended as follows:
After the word “annually,” in line one of said section, and before the word
“publish,” in line one of said section, insert the following words: “on or
before the second Tuesday in May”; and at the end of said section twenty-seven
add the following words: “The fiscal year of said town shall end on the second
Tuesday in May.”
Section 4. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are
hereby repealed.
Ratified this the 8th day of March, A. D. 1913.
   (B)   Amendment passed 2-16-1927.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS, ONSLOW COUNTY, CHAPTER
417, PRIVATE LAWS, SESSION 1905.
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
Section 1. That section fourteen of chapter four hundred and seventeen of
Private Laws of North Carolina, session nineteen hundred and five, be and the
same is hereby amended by striking out the words, “thirty-three and one-third,”
in the fifth line of said section and inserting in lieu thereof the words,
“sixty-six and two-thirds.”
Section 2. This act shall in force from and after its ratification.
Ratified this the 16th day of February, A. D. 1927.
   (C)   Amendment passed 5-21-1931.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR ELECTION IN THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS, ONSLOW COUNTY
WHEREAS, the charter of the Town of Richlands, Onslow County, Chapter four
hundred and seventeen of the Private Laws of North Carolina, session nineteen
hundred and five, provides that town elections shall be held on the second
Tuesday of the month of May in odd years; and
WHEREAS, owing to the general statutory provision calling for such election on
the first Tuesday of May, some confusion has arisen as to which date is
correct, and no election has been held on either date in May, nineteen hundred
and thirty one; and,
WHEREAS, at a town meeting duly held on April, twenty-fourth, nineteen hundred
and thirty one, a ticket for Mayor and Town Aldermen was duly nominated, and
election officers were duly appointed: now, therefore,
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
Section 1. That the election for said Town of Richlands shall be held on June
sixteenth, nineteen hundred and thirty one, in lieu of the regular May
election; and hereafter the election date for said town shall be the first
Tuesday of May.
Section 2. That the present Mayor and Aldermen of the Town of Richlands shall
provide printed ballots for such election to town meeting of April twenty
fourth, shall be the names printed on such official ballots; and said election
shall be held and conducted in all respects as provided in said charter of said
Town of Richlands, insofar as the same is not in conflict with the provisions
of this act.
Section 3. That the same registrar and pollholders appointed originally for
said election shall act for the election of June sixteenth, provided any
vacancy may be filled as provided in said charter.
Section 4. That this act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
Ratified this the 21st day of May, A. D., 1931.
   (D)   Amendment passed 2-19-1947.
AN ACT TO AMEND SECTION 14 OF THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS, AS AMENDED
BY CHAPTER 28 OF THE PRIVATE LAWS OF 1927, RELATING TO RAISING REVENUES IN THE
TOWN OF RICHLANDS IN ONSLOW COUNTY
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH DO ENACT;
Section 1. That Section 14 of Chapter 417 of the Private Laws of 1905, the same
being the charter of the Town of Richlands in the County of Onslow, as amended
by Chapter 28 of the Private Laws of 1927, be and the same is hereby further
amended so that said Section shall read as follows:
Sec. 14. For the purpose of raising revenues for defraying the expenses
incident to the proper government of the Town of Richlands, the Board of
Aldermen shall have the power and it is hereby authorized to levy and collect
an annual ad valorem tax on all taxable property in the Town of Richlands at
such rate on the one hundred dollars ($100.00) valuation of said property as is
or may be from time to time provided by the general law of the State. In
addition to the foregoing, the Board of Aldermen shall have the power and it is
hereby authorized to levy and collect a tax ad valorem upon all property then
subject to taxation in the town, sufficient to pay the principal of and
interest on all bonds of the town as such principal and interest shall become
due, and to levy and collect such license, privilege, franchise and other taxes
as the Board of Aldermen deem proper and as the board is authorized and
permitted to levy and collect by the general law.
Section 2. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this Act be and
the same are hereby repealed.
Section 3. That this Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 19th day of
February, 1947.
   (E)   Amendment passed 3-21-1949.
AN ACT FIXING THE DATE ON WHICH THE MUNICIPAL OFFICERS OF THE TOWN OF
RICHLANDS, ONSLOW COUNTY, N. C., SHALL BEGIN THEIR TERMS OF OFFICE.
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
Section 1. The Mayor, the Board of Aldermen, and all other elective officials
of the Town of Richlands elected in the general municipal election during the
month of May 1949 shall be inducted into and assume the duties of their
respective offices on the first day of July 1949, and biennially thereafter the
municipal officers elected in the general municipal election shall be inducted
into and assume the duties of their respective offices on the first day of July
following the date on which they are elected.
Section 2. The governing body of said town is authorized to pay the mayor a
salary not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) per month out of the town’s
general fund.
Section 3. Each of the members of the governing body of said town shall be paid
the sum of two dollars ($2.00) for each regular or special meeting of said
board attended by such member, said sum to be paid out of the town’s general
fund.
Section 4. The fiscal year of the Town of Richlands shall begin on the first
day of each July hereafter and end on the thirtieth day of each following June.
Section 5. That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of
this Act are hereby repealed.
Section 6. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 21st day of
March, 1949
   (F)   Amendment passed 4-13-1951.
AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE AND EMPOWER THE TOWNS OF JACKSONVILLE, HOLLY RIDGE,
RICHLANDS, AND SWANSBORO IN ONSLOW COUNTY TO LIST AND ASSESS ALL TAXABLE
PROPERTY WITHIN THEIR CORPORATE LIMITS FOR AD VALOREM TAXATION
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
Section 1. In order to equalize the valuation of taxable property within the
Towns of Jacksonville, Holly Ridge, Richlands, and Swansboro in Onslow County,
the governing boards of said towns are hereby authorized to reassess and
revalue all taxable property within said towns for the purposes of ad valorem
taxation. In carrying out such reassessment and revaluation, the governing
boards of the towns shall be governed by the provisions of subchapter II of
Chapter 105 of the General Statutes and the governing boards of the towns shall
perform the duties and functions of boards of county commissioners as set out
in subchapter II of Chapter 105 of the General Statutes. The town clerks or any
other person designated by the town boards shall act as tax supervisors and
shall have all the powers, duties and authority given to tax supervisors by
subchapter II of Chapter 105 of the General Statues. The governing boards of
the towns shall act as boards of equalization and review in the same manner and
with the same powers and duties as county boards of equalization and review,
and appeals may be taken from the governing boards of the towns sitting as
boards of equalization and review in the same manner as appeals are taken from
county boards of equalization and review.
The reassessment and revaluation herein authorized may be made as of January 1,
1952, or in any regular quadrennial reassessment year as fixed by Section 300
of the Machinery Act, being Chapter 310 of the Public Laws of 1939, as amended.
Section 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the governing boards of
the Towns of Jacksonville, Holly Ridge, Richlands, and Swansboro may continue
to obtain the town tax lists from the county records without securing lists
signed by the taxpayers and may continue to accept the valuation fixed by the
county authorities as provided in Section 105-333 of the General Statutes. In
the event any of the municipalities named in this Act shall assess or reassess
and revalue the taxable property of such municipalities, such assessed
valuation shall be applicable to ad valorem taxation of such municipalities
only.
Section 3. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby
repealed.
Section 4. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 13th day of
April, 1951.
   (G)   Amendment passed 5-6-1955.
AN ACT TO LEGALIZE AND VALIDATE THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION OF THE TOWN OF
RICHLANDS, IN ONSLOW COUNTY, FOR THE YEAR 1955, WHICH SAID ELECTION, DUE TO
INADVERTENCE AND MISTAKE, WAS NOT HELD ON THE DATE REQUIRED BY LAW.
WHEREAS, the time fixed by law for the election of the municipal officials of
the Town of Richlands, in Onslow County, is the first Tuesday in May in all odd
years; and
WHEREAS, through some oversight, mistake and inadvertence on the part of the
municipal officials of the Town of Richlands it was considered and thought that
said election should be held on the first Saturday in May, or, that is, on the
7th day of May, 1955; and
WHEREAS, all necessary preparations for said municipal election of the Town of
Richlands have been made, including the opening of the registration books,
registration and all legal requirements preliminary to a municipal election,
including the printing of the official ballots; and
WHEREAS, there have been expenses incurred, and said election should be held,
and it is the regular year for such municipal election, and it is desired that
proper officers shall be elected in a legal manner to administer the municipal
government of the Town of Richlands: Now, therefore,
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
Section 1. The municipal election for the Town of Richlands for the election of
the municipal officers of said town, held or to be held on May 7, 1955, shall
in respects be deemed to be the proper, legal and valid date of election for
said Town of Richlands for the year of 1955. That all preliminary
registrations, preparations of election records and books, of printing of
official ballots and other steps taken for the holding of said election on May
7, 1955, shall be deemed to be legal, proper and valid, and any and all such
preliminary procedures and steps are hereby declared to be lawful and are
hereby validated.
Section 2. That any and all municipal officers elected in the Town of
Richlands, or to be elected on May 7, 1955, are hereby declared elected or to
be elected in a legal, proper and valid election, and such persons, when
properly inducted into office, shall be deemed to hold their offices with legal
and valid status in any and all respects and with the same force and effect as
if said election had been held on Tuesday, May 3, 1955.
Section 3. That all future elections to be held for the Town of Richlands, for
the election of municipal officials, shall be held on the first Tuesday in May
in accordance with the charter and special laws governing said election for
said Town of Richlands.
Section 4. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
Act are hereby repealed.
Section 5. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 6th day of May,
1955.
   (H)   Amendment passed 4-24-1957.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXERCISE OF POWERS BY POLICE OFFICERS BEYOND THE
CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE TOWNS OF SWANSBORO AND RICHLANDS IN ONSLOW COUNTY.
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT;
Section 1. The members of the town police of the Towns of Swansboro and
Richlands, in Onslow County, shall have, in all that territory embraced within
one mile in all directions of the present corporate limits of said towns, all
the power and authority which they now exercise within the corporate limits of
said town, provided, however, that the power and authority herein granted shall
not extend beyond the boundary of Onslow County.
Section 2. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. This Act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 24th day of
April, 1957.
   (I)   Amendment passed 3-4-1965.
AN ACT TO AMEND CHAPTER 160 OF THE GENERAL STATUES TO EXTEND THE AUTHORITY TO
ARREST AND EXECUTE CRIMINAL PROCESS BY TOWN POLICEMEN TO TERRITORY OUTSIDE THE
TOWN LIMITS, BUT WITHIN THREE MILES THEREOF, AS THE SAME PERTAINS TO THE TOWN
OF RICHLANDS IN ONSLOW COUNTY.
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
Section 1. G. S. 160-21 is amended by striking out “within the town limits” and
substituting in lieu thereof “within or without, but within a radius of three
miles of, the limits of the Town of Richlands in Onslow County,”
Section 2. The provisions of this Act shall be applicable only to the Town of
Richlands in Onslow County.
Section 3. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby
repealed.
Section 4. This act shall become effective upon its ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 4th day of
March, 1965.
   (J)   Amendment passed 4-27-1965.
AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE GOVERNING BODY OF THE TOWN OF RICHLANDS TO EMPLOY
PERSONS WHO ARE NOT QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE TOWN.
The GENERAL ASSEMBLY of NORTH CAROLINA DO ENACT:
Section 1. The governing body of the Town of Richlands in Onslow County is
hereby authorized and empowered to employ in any capacity, including as Chief
of Police and other police officers of the Town, persons who reside outside of
the corporate limits of the municipality and who are not qualified voters
thereof.
Section 2. All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this Act are hereby
repealed.
Section 3. This Act shall become effective upon its ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 27th day of
April, 1965.
CHAPTER 32: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Composition of Department
   
32.03   Police officers’ duties
   
32.04   Supervision of Department
Operating Regulations
   
32.20   Control and supervision
   
32.21   Power and authority
   
32.22   Uniforms
   
32.23   Specific functions of Chief of Police
Auxiliary Police
   
32.40   Auxiliary police
Cross-references:
   Curfew for Minors, see
Ch. 130
   Emergency and Rescue, see
Ch. 93
   Nuisances; Health and Sanitation, see
Ch. 90
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction of police officers, see G.S. §§ 15A-402, 160A-286
   Municipal law enforcement in general, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
   State law now requires that local law enforcement officers be certified by
the Criminal Justice
    Training and Standards Council, see G.S. §§ 7A et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   The Town Police Department is hereby created subject to the terms, authority
and conditions set out in this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-01)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief of Police and
police officers of a designated grade as the Town Board deems necessary, from
time to time, all of whom shall hold office at the pleasure of the Town Board
and shall receive compensation as the Town Board shall direct.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-02)
§ 32.03 POLICE OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all ordinances of the town and the laws of the state
within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance, and to
abide by rules and regulations as the Town Board may prescribe.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the police force, upon
information furnished him or her, or upon his or her knowledge of any violation
of the ordinances of the town or of the laws of the state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of offenders against any ordinances or laws.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-03)
§ 32.04 SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall have immediate direction and control of the
members of the Police Department, subject, however, to the supervision of the
Town Administrator, Town Board and to rules, regulations and order that the
Town Board may prescribe.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-04)
OPERATING REGULATIONS
§ 32.20 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   The Chief of Police of the town, subject to the general supervision of the
Town Board, is held responsible for the discipline, good order and proper
conduct of the department and the various duties thereof, and for the proper
enforcement of the laws of the state and of the town.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-11)
§ 32.21 POWER AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The persons exercising police powers shall have all the power and
authority now, or which may hereafter be invested in local law enforcement
officers, for the preservation of the peace of the town and for suppressing
disturbances and arresting offenders.
   (B)   Except when pursuing an offender of the law or happening upon persons
in the act of committing some offense, or when directed by a superior officer
or when acting pursuant to official request for assistance, the police shall
carry out their duties when on duty within the law enforcement jurisdiction of
the town.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 32.22 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers, except the Chief, shall wear uniforms as shall be
provided by the town and shall keep such uniforms in a neat and clean
condition, and shall surrender all uniforms and equipment upon leaving the
police service of the town if the uniforms and equipment were furnished by the
town. The Chief may wear a uniform provided by the town, if he or she so
desires.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-13)
§ 32.23 SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The functions of the Chief of Police in the town are:
   (A)   To issue to the force under his or her command any orders and
directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
arrest offenders and to protect public and private property and person in the
town;
   (B)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations and executive
orders applicable to his or her jurisdiction;
   (C)   Upon the direction of the Board, to suspend from duty, any members of
the Department for incompetence, neglect of duty, immorality, drunkenness,
drinking intoxicants when on duty, or who shall be found unfit for duty when
called on for emergency service, or who fail to obey orders given by proper
authority, and in addition for any just or reasonable cause in the judgment of
the Town Board; and
   (D)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary and
required reports.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16)
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 32.40 AUXILIARY POLICE.
   (A)   Auxiliary police officers shall be under the direct control of the
Chief of Police, acting under general supervision of the Town Administrator.
All appointments and removals of an auxiliary police officer shall be made in
the same manner and under the same policies and procedures as established for
appointment and removal of regular police officers.
   (B)   The duties of an auxiliary police officer shall be to assist the
regular members of the Police Department in the enforcement of the law and the
maintenance of peace and order when called to duty by the Chief of Police. The
rules and regulations to govern an auxiliary police officer shall be
established by the Chief of Police in accordance with the policies and
procedures of the town and the Police Department.
   (C)   The auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits
under the North Carolina Workers’ Compensation Act and to any fringe benefits
for which such volunteer personnel qualify.
CHAPTER 33: FISCAL PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Countersigned by a designated officer of town
   
33.02   Disposal of certain surplus property
Purchasing
   
33.15   Disbursement of funds
   
33.16   Purchasing agent
   
33.17   Purchase order
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 COUNTERSIGNED BY A DESIGNATED OFFICER OF TOWN.
   All checks and drafts issued by the town, regardless of amount, must be
signed by the Town Clerk, and countersigned by the Mayor, the Town
Administrator or a designated Alderman.
(1987 Code, § 2-4-41)
Statutory reference:
   Dual signatures on check, see G.S. § 159-25
§ 33.02 DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Administrator is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus
personal property owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or
her discretion, that:
      (1)   Each individual item has a fair market value of less than $1,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Administrator may dispose of any such surplus personal
property by any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the
highest attainable price in money or other consideration, including, but not
limited to, the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. Such sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Administrator is
hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no
offers are received within a reasonable time, the Town Administrator may retain
the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value or cause it to be
disposed of as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization, except by resolution of the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall keep a record of all property sold under
authority of this section and that record shall generally describe the property
sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount
of money or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
   (E)   This section is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266
(c).
   (F)   This section shall become effective on August 11, 1998.
(1987 Code, § 2-4-43) (Ord. passed 8-11-1998)
PURCHASING
§ 33.15 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows: “This
disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Officer’s certificate as follows: “This instrument has been
preaudited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.”
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, all checks or drafts on an
official depository shall be signed by the Finance Director and countersigned
by the Town Administrator or another official of the town designated for this
purpose by the Board of Aldermen.
(1987 Code, § 2-4-01)
Statutory reference:
   Preaudit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 33.16 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Town Administrator shall serve as purchasing agent and as such shall:
   (A)   Make or approve all purchases of material, equipment and supplies
authorized by the Board at the most favorable price for the town and shall see
that the material, equipment and supplies delivered are correct in number or
amount and comply with the standards and specifications agreed to at the time
of purchase;
   (B)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases by
the town;
   (C)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
   (D)   Prepare standardized purchasing manual as a guide to all purchases
made by the town;
   (E)   Advise the Board as to anticipated needs for purchases and make
purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Board;
   (F)   Store material, equipment and supplies in advance of actual need;
   (G)   Keep records of all purchases made by him or her and of the
destination or ultimate use of the material, equipment and supplies; and
   (H)   Cause to be kept an inventory of all municipal property in the custody
of the other officers and employees of the town.
(1987 Code, § 2-4-02)
Statutory reference:
   Public purchasing and contracts generally, see G.S. §§ 143-129 et seq.
§ 33.17 PURCHASE ORDER.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by any town employee, a purchase order must first be obtained
from the Town Administrator or designee as selected by the Board.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Town Administrator may be held responsible for the cost of the goods.
Exceptions to this shall be in circumstances where the emergency purchase
procedure must be followed.
(1987 Code, § 2-4-03)
CHAPTER 34: DEPARTMENTAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE OPERATING ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Employees serve at pleasure of Board
   
34.02   Interest of town officers or employees in town contracts
   
34.03   Consolidation of offices
   
34.04   Employee bonds
Departmental Operating Organization
   
34.15   Departments enumerated
   
34.16   Town Clerk
Administrative Offices
   
34.30   Town Attorney
   
34.31   Town Administrator
   
34.32   Finance Director
Cross-reference:
   Governing Body, see
Ch. 30
Statutory reference:
   Conflicts of interest, see G.S. § 14-234
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 EMPLOYEES SERVE AT PLEASURE OF BOARD.
   All employees elected or appointed by the Board of Aldermen shall hold their
offices at the pleasure of the Board and may be removed at any time by the
Board.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-11)
§ 34.02 INTEREST OF TOWN OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES IN TOWN CONTRACTS.
   No member of the Board or other officer or employee of the town shall be
peculiarly interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract made or entered
into by the Board, nor in any matter where the rights or liabilities of the
town are, or may be, involved.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-12)
§ 34.03 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board may, in its discretion,
consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of both offices to
one or more persons.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-13)
§ 34.04 EMPLOYEE BONDS.
   The Town Clerk, Town Administrator and other offices or employees required
by the Board shall, before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts
specified by the Board. All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds;
provided that, when two officers are combined, such as Clerk and Administrator,
only one bond shall be required.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-14)
DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING ORGANIZATION
§ 34.15 DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The organization of the town shall be divided into the following
departments:
   (A)   Administrative Department;
   (B)   Public Works Department; and
   (C)   Public Safety.
(1987 Code, § 2-3-01)
§ 34.16 TOWN CLERK.
   The town shall appoint a Town Clerk who shall carry out the functions of the
office as set forth in G.S. § 160A-171 and carry out the functions as follows:
   (A)   Perform such duties and functions, or direct others to perform such
duties and functions as required by the state’s general statutes for the Town
Clerk to the Board of Aldermen, not otherwise provided herein;
   (B)   Record, or cause to be recorded, minutes of all official meetings of
the Board of Aldermen and other official town committees as directed by the
Board;
   (C)   Give notice of all official meetings of the Board of Aldermen and its
committees and advisory boards;
   (D)   Be custodian of all official town documents, papers and records, in
accordance with the state’s general statutes;
   (E)   Prepare, file and distribute correspondence as necessary to conduct
town business and to keep the Board informed;
   (F)   Be responsible for the timely filing of reports and statements as
required by the state’s general statutes; and
   (G)   Perform such other duties and functions as the Board of Aldermen may
prescribe.
(1987 Code, § 2-3-03)
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
§ 34.30 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may
be brought against, or by any officer of the town, or in the capacity of the
person as an officer of the town;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
   (C)   See to the completion of any special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions of
the Board as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Board, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the town;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the Board upon request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by G.S. § 160A-173 and
other laws and ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-01)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 34.31 TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint a Town Administrator. The duties
of the Town Administrator are as follows:
      (1)   Be the chief administrative officer of the town government
responsible to the Board of Aldermen and Mayor (as a body of one) for the
performance of his or her duties. The Town Administrator shall perform or
supervise the performance of all administrative affairs of the town as he or
she may be authorized and directed to do by the Board;
      (2)   Attend all regular meetings of the Board of Aldermen. In addition,
the Town Administrator shall attend all committee meetings of the Board of
Aldermen on an as needed basis or as a member of the department committees,
depending on the wishes of the Board;
      (3)   Make investigations and reports concerning town government affairs
to the Board and Mayor (as a body of one) as they may direct and as the Town
Administrator shall from time to time deem necessary. Reports may include
recommendations for adopting such measures as the Town Administrator may deem
best for the good government of the municipality;
      (4)   Coordinate the activities of each department and direct
superintendents and other town employees in the performance of their duties and
functions as may be required;
      (5)   Make any other reports that the Board may require concerning the
operations of the town departments, offices and agencies subject to his or her
direction and control;
      (6)   Direct and supervise the administration of departments, offices and
agencies of the town, subject to the general direction and control of the
Board, except as otherwise provided by law;
      (7)   The Town Administrator shall be responsible to the Board of
Aldermen for the administration of the personnel program. The Town
Administrator shall appoint and suspend or remove all town officers and
employees not elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the Town Attorney, Town Clerk, Police
Chief and Public Works Director, in accordance with such general personnel
rules, regulations, policies or ordinances as the Board may adopt;
      (8)   Make recommendations to the Board to carry out such disciplinary
measures as may be necessary concerning town employees, after receiving the
recommendation of the department head and making such investigations concerning
such matters as be necessary. The Town Board of Aldermen shall be the final
authority for carrying out all adverse personnel actions;
      (9)   See that all laws of the state and the town, including the town
charter, ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Town Board of Aldermen
are faithfully performed and carried out;
      (10)   Prepare and subject the annual budget and capital program to the
Board of Aldermen; and
      (11)   Shall annually submit to the Board and make available to the
public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
town as of the end of the fiscal year.
   (B)   The superintendents or operating heads of the various town departments
shall be directly responsible to the Town Administrator, who, in turn, shall be
directly responsible to the Board of Aldermen. It is the intent of this section
to establish a line of responsibility from the superintendent or operating
department head through the Town Administrator to the Board of Aldermen. The
Town Administrator is responsible for maintaining fiscal control of the
budgeted items of the various departments.
   (C)   The appointment of the Town Administrator shall be made with regard to
merit, experience and education. The Mayor or any member of the Board of
Aldermen shall not be eligible for appointment as the Town Administrator, until
a period of one year has elapsed since the last meeting at which the said
person last served as an elected member of the governing body.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board
of Aldermen and the compensation for the Town Administrator shall be set by the
Board of Aldermen at least annually.
(1987 Code, § 2-2-02)
§ 34.32 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   The Town Administrator shall appoint a Finance Director whose powers and
duties shall be:
   (A)   He or she shall keep the accounts of the town in accordance with
generally accepted principles of governmental accounting and the rules and
regulations of the Local Government Commission, as set forth in G.S. §§ 159-
1 et seq.
   (B)   He or she shall disburse all funds of the town in strict compliance
with G.S. Ch. 159, the budget ordinance and each project ordinance, and shall
preaudit obligations and disbursements as required by G.S. Ch. 159.
   (C)   As often as may be requested by the Board of Aldermen or Town
Administrator, he or she shall prepare and file with the Board a statement of
the financial condition of the town.
   (D)   He or she shall receive and deposit all moneys accruing to the town,
or supervise the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers
and employees.
   (E)   He or she shall maintain all records concerning the bonded debt and
other obligations of the town, determine the amount of money that will be
required for debt service or the payment of other obligations during each
fiscal year, and maintain all sinking funds.
   (F)   He or she shall supervise the investment of idle funds of the town.
   (G)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or
her by law, by the Town Administrator or Board of Aldermen, or by rules and
regulations of the Commission.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General prohibitions
   
50.03   Duty of property owner
   
50.04   Contents of notice
   
50.05   Abatement by city
   
50.06   Payment of costs
Precollection and Collection Policies
   
50.20   Containers
   
50.21   Access to containers
   
50.22   Special applications
   
50.23   Prohibited contents of containers
   
50.24   Access to private property
   
50.25   Accumulation prohibited
   
50.26   Collection
Charges and Enforcement
   
50.40   Determination of charges
   
50.41   When payment due
   
50.42   Failure to pay
   
50.43   Responsibility for use of service
   
50.44   Payment application
   
50.45   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; Health and Sanitation, see
Ch. 90
   Rubbish and Litter, see §§
90.115 through
90.126
   Use and Cleanliness of Streets, see §§
91.055 and
91.056
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK CONTAINER. A water-proof metal container of not less than four cubic
yards, nor more than eight cubic yards in size, designed for solid waste
storage and to be lifted and emptied by mechanical means into a solid waste
transportation vehicle.
   BULKY WASTES. Large items of solid waste, such as furniture, appliances,
parts of appliances, white goods or other items, either too large or too heavy
to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste transportation vehicles by
solid waste collectors with the equipment available therefor.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Discarded or unused construction
materials resulting from the construction, demolition, reconstruction,
remodeling and repair of houses, commercial buildings and other structures.
Such waste shall include, but not be limited to, excavated earth, stones,
brick, plaster, lumber, concrete shingles, insulation, stumps, trees, brush,
fixtures and waste parts generated by installation and replacements of
structures and facilities, or from land clearing activities.
   DWELLING. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure, and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended to be
used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. The definition of DWELLING UNIT
shall include mobile homes, recreation vehicles, campers and other vehicles
capable of human occupancy with facilities for sleeping and cooking.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste or combination of wastes, in any form, which because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible
illness, or which poses a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Waste generated in connection with the testing, treatment or
care of medical patients who have or may have communicable diseases, such as
bedding or clothes, used instruments or utensils, pathological specimens or
other similar material.
   MOBILE SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS. Rolling, plastic and metal refuse containers
with a capacity of 90 gallons, designed for storage of residential and small
business refuse and capable of being automatically dumped by the town’s
residential collection equipment.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly with others, is in actual
possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real property, either
as owner or as a tenant.
   SOLID WASTE. Unwanted or discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-solid
state, including, but not limited to, garbage, ashes, refuse, rubbish, animal
waste, agricultural waste, trash and yard waste.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the operation of
any commercial, industrial, institutional or agricultural establishment and
multiple-housing facilities with more than four dwelling units and which cannot
be serviced by three or less mobile solid waste containers.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance
and operation of dwelling units, excluding multiple-housing facilities with
four or more dwelling units which cannot be serviced by three or less mobile
solid waste containers. Commercial solid waste which can be serviced by three
or less mobile solid waste containers may be treated as RESIDENTIAL SOLID
WASTE.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Employee of the town or a solid waste collection
agency operating under a contract with the town who collects and transports
solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Receptacle, including a bulk container, used by any
person to store solid waste for collection by the town or an authorized waste
collection agency. Said CONTAINERS shall be of a type approved by the town.
CONTAINERS shall be leak-proof, water-proof and shall be properly covered at
all times, except when deposing waste therein or removing the contents thereof.
There shall be two types of CONTAINERS.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. A metal bulk container which is dumped mechanically.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL. Mobile roll-out containers which shall be approved by
the Board of Aldermen or their designee.
   WASTE. Useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from community
activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clipping, leaves, tree trimmings, shrubbery trimmings and
other yard maintenance waste.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-01)
§ 50.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Deposit solid wastes in any solid waste container which is not
assigned to that person without the consent of the possessor of such container;
   (B)   Leave outside any building in a place accessible to children an
appliance such as a lock or door from the appliance; provided, however, that,
this prohibition shall not apply to appliances which are created, strapped or
locked in such manner that a child cannot obtain access to the air-tight
compartment thereof;
   (C)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collectors or solid waste
collection and transportation equipment;
   (D)   Dispose of solid waste in any manner not authorized by this chapter;
   (E)   Engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing or
disposing of solid wastes within the corporate limits of the town without a
contract, permit or franchise from the town;
   (F)   Permit any dirt, rocks, sand, brick, broken concrete, lumber, tree
trunks, limbs or trimmings, cinders, plaster, gravel or ashes to fall, be
scattered or blown upon any street from any vehicle transporting such
materials, or to fail to remove such materials immediately from the street if
such materials fall upon the street;
   (G)   Place any solid waste or solid waste container or other objects in,
upon or over any storm drain opening;
   (H)   Place, discard, dispose or leave any garbage or solid waste upon a
street or highway with the town, or upon any property owned or operated by the
town unless such garbage or solid waste is placed in a designated location or
in a solid waste container;
   (I)   Place, discard, dispose or leave any garbage, refuse, solid waste,
construction waste or bulky waste upon private property within the town, except
solid waste stored in approved containers placed for immediate pickup and
disposal off-premises, not to exceed a period of seven days. This include
privately-owned property, and applies to the landowner as well as the general
public and tenants;
   (J)   Permit grass, yard waste, clippings to fall on or be placed on the
street, curb, gutter, sidewalks and storm drain opening; and/or
   (K)   Place or allow mobile solid containers of recycling bins to remain
curbside for more than 24 hours prior to or following regular solid waste
collection or recycling collection.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Whenever trash or debris is found in the public streets, parks or alleys, it
shall be the responsibility of the fronting property owner to remove said trash
or debris upon written notice by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-03)
§ 50.04 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall contain:
   (A)   An order to remove the trash or debris from the street, park or alley
within two days of the notice; and
   (B)   The statement that if the trash or debris is not removed from the
street, park or alley within the prescribed time, the city will abate such
nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-04)
§ 50.05 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the city
shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs
incurred in the abatement thereof.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-05)
§ 50.06 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the abatement of the nuisance herein described by
the city under the provisions of this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall deliver to the City Finance Officer a statement including the costs of
labor, hauling and other necessary items of expense for such abatement. The
City Finance Officer shall thereupon mail to the owner of the lot a bill
covering the costs.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-193, the amount of the bill shall become a
lien upon said property and, if not paid within 30 days, shall be collected in
the same manner as provided for the collection of delinquent taxes.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-06)
PRECOLLECTION AND COLLECTION POLICIES
§ 50.20 CONTAINERS.
   All dwelling units, businesses and other occupants or owners of property
located within the town which generate solid waste shall obtain from the town,
or its duly authorized contractor, solid waste containers in order to receive
municipal solid waste collection services.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-10)
§ 50.21 ACCESS TO CONTAINERS.
   All mobile solid waste containers shall be placed within ten feet of the
paved portion of the street or road serving the property by 5:00 a.m. on the
days of collection. Town employees or solid waste contractors shall not
retrieve or empty any solid waste container which is not street-side, except as
to those residential customers who cannot roll the container to the street
because of illness or age. Any person requesting to be exempt from the
requirements of rolling the containers to the street shall make application to
the town administration, who shall rule on each requested exemption.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-11) (Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.22 SPECIAL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Dangerous items. Any solid wastes which are dangerous to handle by
solid waste collectors, such as fluorescent tubes, vacuum tubes, light bulbs,
sharp pieces of metal or hypodermic syringes, shall be securely wrapped and
marked with a visible warning.
   (B)   Wet garbage. All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and
shall be wrapped in paper or other combustible material before it is placed in
the solid waste container, thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in
summer and freezing and adhesion to the container in winter.
   (C)   Yard waste. Any person desiring to place yard waste for collection
shall cause the same to be securely bagged or tied in bundles, not heavier than
50 pounds, and no longer than six feet in length and ten inches in diameter.
Yard waste shall be placed for collection at the curb side at the street and
shall be collected, upon notification, at the town’s convenience. The yard
waste policy was adopted on 8-11-1998.
   (D)   Construction and demolition waste. Construction and demolition waste
shall be collected, removed and disposed of by the construction contractor or
builder or, in event of his, her or their failure by the occupant of the
property, in no less than seven days if said waste is not stored or contained
in a bulk container located on the site. A bulk container shall be installed on
site if the volume of waste being generated on the site. Bulk containers
containing construction and demolition waste shall be emptied by the
construction contractor, builder or occupant of the property, as necessary. All
costs associated with the installation and/or disposal of the contents of the
bulk containers shall be borne by the property owner or construction
contractor.
   (E)   Industrial waste. Industrial waste shall be collected, removed and
disposed of by the operator of the factory, plant, operation or enterprise
creating or causing the industrial waste.
   (F)   Commercial solid waste. Commercial solid waste shall be stored in bulk
containers which are compatible with the town’s or the solid waste collector’s
waste collection equipment. The containers shall be water-proof, leak-proof and
shall be covered at all times, except when depositing waste therein or removing
the contents thereof.
   (G)   Bulky waste. Bulky waste shall be collected upon request to the
Director of Public Works. Bulky waste shall not be deposited in mobile solid
waste containers, but shall be deposited for collection at the curb side, to be
picked up at the town’s convenience, and charged to the customer according to a
schedule on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (H)   Ashes. Ashes shall be placed in a separate container and allowed to
cool at least 24 hours before being placed for removal in mobile solid waste
containers, in their own separate bag or other suitable container, properly
closed and fastened to prevent spillage.
   (I)   Tires. Tires shall not be placed in mobile solid waste containers and
will not be picked up for disposal by the town or the town’s duly authorized
collection contractor. Tires should be disposed of by the owner in accordance
with state and county regulations.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-12) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 PROHIBITED CONTENTS OF CONTAINERS.
   The following items are prohibited to be placed in authorized solid waste
containers that are part of the regular solid waste collection system of the
town or to be placed on public or private property for more than seven days:
   (A)   Motor vehicle tires;
   (B)   Construction and demolition wastes;
   (C)   Hazardous, radioactive or medical wastes;
   (D)   Burning or smoldering materials or any other materials which would
create a fire hazard; or
   (E)   Rocks, dirt, sod, paint or motor oil; and/or
   (F)   White goods, appliances or parts of white goods or appliances.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-13) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Solid waste collectors are hereby authorized to enter upon private property
for the purpose of collecting solid waste therefrom as required by this
chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter dwelling units or other
residential buildings for the purpose of collecting residential solid waste.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No property owner or occupant shall allow the accumulation of garbage,
refuse, solid waste, construction wastes or bulky wastes upon property owned or
occupied by him or her so that such accumulation is dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health. Nor shall any person permit any type of waste to accumulate
or remain on any premises longer than is reasonably necessary to remove and
deposit the waste in an approved manner, in accordance with this chapter, in
any event, not to exceed seven days.
   (B)   In the event that an accumulation of waste exists and remains on
property longer than is reasonably necessary to remove and deposit the waste as
required herein or more than seven days, the town may, without further notice
to the owner or occupant, remove or remedy the accumulation and charge the
expense of the removal and disposal to the owner or occupant of the property
responsible. Such charges shall be billed within 30 days of removal and if not
paid, shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the accumulation occurred
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-15) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 COLLECTION.
   Mobile solid waste containers and bulk containers shall be collected by the
town or its solid waste collector in accordance with a schedule kept on file in
the office of the Town Clerk and available for public inspection.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-16)
CHARGES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.40 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for waste disposal service and/or the future charges
for waste collection service provided by the town or its duly authorized solid
waste collector shall be as determined by the Town Board from time to time and
on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-20)
§ 50.41 WHEN PAYMENT DUE.
   All bills for sanitation services furnished by the town, or its duly
authorized solid waste collector, shall be due and payable prior to midnight of
the fifteenth day following the date of such bill; provided, however, that, if
such due date shall fall on a Sunday or a legal holiday observed by the town,
then such bill shall be due and payable by midnight of the following business
day.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-21)
§ 50.42 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   Late charge. In the event any customer of sanitation services
furnished by the town or its duly authorized solid waste collector fails to pay
his, her or their bill when due, a penalty of 10% of the amount due and owing
shall be imposed and added to such bill.
   (B)   Discontinuance of service. In the event bills for sanitation services
are not paid within an additional period of ten days, the town shall have the
right to discontinue all sanitation services furnished by the town or its duly
authorized solid waste collector to the customer in arrears.
   (C)   Reinstatement after discontinuance of service. In the event sanitation
service is discontinued for non-payment of the bill, the customer shall have
the right to have service reinstated only upon the payment of the amount due
and such additional reinstatement fee as is prescribed by the Town Board from
time to time.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-22)
§ 50.43 RESPONSIBILITY FOR USE OF SERVICE.
   All improved premises located within the town limits shall be presumed to be
using the town sanitation or service, and the occupants or owners of the
premises shall be charged for this service. If there is not a tenant or other
service customer of record, the owner shall be considered the occupant and
shall be responsible for all payment for sanitation services.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-23)
§ 50.44 PAYMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All payments for utility services and sanitation services shall be
applied to the customer’s accounts, whether full payment or partial payment, in
the following order:
      (1)   First, to sanitation late charges;
      (2)   Second, to sanitation arrears charges;
      (3)   Third, to sanitation current charges;
      (4)   Fourth, to water late charges;
      (5)   Fifth, to sewer late charges;
      (6)   Sixth, to water arrears charges;
      (7)   Seventh, to sewer arrears charges;
      (8)   Eighth, to sewer current charges; and
      (9)   Ninth, to water current charges.
   (B)   In the event of partial payments, the utility charges will be
considered outstanding and the disconnection for non-payment, §
50.06 of this code shall be enforced.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-24)
§ 50.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   Administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the duty of the
Public Works Director of the town or his or her designee.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-25) (Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The abatement of any nuisance in accordance with the procedure
prescribed by this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person violating the provisions of this chapter.
Violations of this chapter may be subject to abatement summarily by appropriate
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-07)
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
50.03,
50.06,
50.23 or
50.25 of this chapter by any firm, person or corporation shall constitute a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500 or of imprisonment by no more than six months, or both. Each and every
violation shall constitute a separate and distinct defense.
(1987 Code, § 4-2-26)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Golf Carts
   
70.01   Authority to regulate
   
70.02   Liability disclaimer
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Liability insurance
   
70.05   Required equipment
   
70.06   Registration, inspection and fee prior to usage
   
70.07   General operation
   
70.08   Exceptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.01 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-300.6, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to
regulate the operation of golf carts on any public street or road within the
town.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-80) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011)
§ 70.02 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This subchapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Most
golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets. The
town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets. By
establishing guidelines that regulate the use of golf carts, the town is merely
trying to address safety issues that may be pertinent to golf cart usage. The
adoption of this subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that
operation of golf carts on public streets is safe or advisable, even if done in
accordance with this subchapter. As with any other form of transportation, all
persons who operate golf carts or any other vehicle do so at their own risk and
peril and must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and
others. The town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town
assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on public
streets.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-81) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Town Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   GOLF CART. A golf cart vehicle, designed and manufactured for operation on a
golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart on a public
street.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any public street or road within the corporate limits of the
town, open to the general public and whose posted speed limit is 35 mph or
less.
   REGISTRATION PERIOD. July 1 through June 30 of each year.
   TOWN. The Town of Richlands, North Carolina.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-82) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011)
§ 70.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No golf cart shall be operated on any public street within the town without
liability insurance coverage being provided for that golf cart. Any person who
owns a golf cart that is operated within the town shall be responsible for
procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover the risk involved in
operating a golf cart on public streets.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-83) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to all other requirements stated herein, all golf carts operated
within the town shall have the following equipment installed on them and the
equipment shall be visible and/or operational at all times:
   (A)   Two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than three inches, which
are so designed and located as to height and which are maintained so that each
reflector is visible for at least 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions;
   (B)   Slow-moving vehicle warning sign attached to the rear; and
   (C)   Rear view mirror or side view mirrors, mounted on each side of the
golf cart.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-84) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   All golf cart owners must complete a golf cart registration form and
submit it to the Chief of Police or his or her designee prior to being eligible
for an inspection.
   (B)   Prior to being operated within the town, a golf cart must be inspected
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. Upon successfully passing an
inspection, the golf cart will be assigned a registration card. Inspections are
due each year. Registrations may be issued at any time during the registration
period; however, all registrations will expire on June 30 of each year;
provided, it shall be lawful to operate a registered golf cart until July 15 of
the year of expiration. The registration card must be located on the cart and
available for review at all times.
   (C)   Prior to receiving a golf cart registration card, the applicant must
produce proof of payment of the applicable golf cart registration fee and
provide proof of liability insurance.
   (D)   Registration fees may change without notice and are listed in the
annually adopted fee schedule. Registration fees will not be prorated due to
date of issuance.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-85) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 GENERAL OPERATION.
   (A)   Golf carts can only operate on public streets during daylight hours,
from sunrise to sunset.
   (B)   Golf cart drivers shall have a valid driver’s license and in no case
be under age 16.
   (C)   Golf cart drivers shall stay on the far right of the road and shall
yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (D)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner. No golf
cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and prudent for the
existing conditions and in no instance at a speed of greater than 20 mph.
   (E)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on public streets shall be
one person per seat. Persons may not ride in or on areas not designed as a seat
(e.g., the baggage/storage area that is typical on most golf carts shall not be
used as a passenger area).
   (F)   Golf carts shall be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws. Golf carts will be subject to the same right-of-way,
maneuvering and operating guidelines as that apply to standard vehicles, except
as otherwise noted herein.
   (G)   All applicable state laws concerning possession and use of alcoholic
beverages or any other intoxicating substances shall also apply to golf cart
drivers and passengers.
   (H)   In the absence of mechanical turn signals, the golf cart driver shall
be required to use appropriate hand signals when the golf cart is in motion.
   (I)   Golf carts may not be operated on public streets during inclement
weather unless the golf cart is equipped with a windshield, operating
windshield wipers and headlamps.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-86) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   Any golf cart that complies with the requirements of state law, which make
it a street legal golf cart and/or low speed vehicle, and is therefore eligible
for usage on public streets as prescribed by law, shall be exempt from the
requirements of this subchapter as they are regulated by state motor vehicle
laws.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-87) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §§
70.01 through
70.08 of this chapter or applicable state motor vehicle law may result in
revocation of the golf cart registration by the town.
      (2)   In lieu of revocation of the registration on the offender’s first
offense, any violation of §§
70.01 through
70.08 of this chapter shall result in a civil penalty against the offender in
the amount of $100. Said penalty shall be payable to the Town Clerk within ten
days of issuance.
      (3)   A second or third violation of any provisions of §§
70.01 through
70.08 of this chapter within the same registration year shall result in a civil
penalty of $100 and may also result in revocation of the golf cart registration
assigned to the cart.
      (4)   All provisions enumerated in this division (B) may be enforced
through the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-175. The town may also seek any
and all appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and abatement orders from
the court of competent jurisdiction.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-88) (Ord. passed 1-11-2011)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Trucks and large vehicles
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-296 and 20-141(f), this division (A) is
enacted to provide for the enforcement of speed regulations on streets, roads
and highways which are a part of the state highway system within the corporate
limits of the town and to provide for the general welfare of the town through
the uniform and orderly regulation of its streets and thoroughfares.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-46)
      (2)    It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle on a
street or highway within the corporate limits of the town which is a part of
the state highway system in excess of the following speeds:
         (a)   Forty-five mph: on U.S. 258/N.C. 24 from 0.40 mile south of S.R.
1003 northward to S.R. 1302, a distance of 1.37 miles; and
         (b)   Thirty-five mph:
            1.   On S.R. 1308/Franck Street from the eastern corporate limit to
the intersection of S.R. 1308/Franck Street with U.S. 258/N.C. 24;
            2.   On S.R. 1301/Rand Road from the northern corporate limits to
the intersection of S.R. 1301/Rand Road with U.S. 258/N.C. 24; and
            3.   On SR 1238 starting at the intersection of Koonce Fork Road
(SR 1238) and NC 24 for a length of approximately 408.1 feet (.007 miles) west.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-47)
      (3)   Violation of this division (A) shall be punishable as set out in
G.S. Ch. 20, as amended.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-48)
   (B)   (1)   Purpose. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-296, this division (B) is
enacted to provide for the enforcement of speed regulations on streets, roads
and highways which are a part of the town street system within the corporate
limits of the town, and to provide for the general welfare of the town through
the uniform and orderly regulation of its streets and thoroughfares.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-60)
      (2)   Posted speed for town streets. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate any vehicle on a street or highway within the corporate limits of
the town which is a part of the town-maintained street system in excess of 25
mph unless otherwise posted.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-61)
      (3)   Posted speed for certain town streets. As determined by the Town
Board of Aldermen, the posted speed limit for certain town streets are as
follows:
         (a)   Brookhaven Drive, East Foy Street, East Point Street,
Dreadnaught Street, Hancock Street and Woodson Street: 20 mph; and
         (b)   Berlin Court, Brooksdale Drive, Dillard Lane and Gabson Court:
15 mph.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-62) (Ord. passed 3-14-2006; Ord. 2011-04, passed 8-9-2011;
Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 5-10-2016; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 5-10-2022; Am.
Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   General. The Board of Aldermen may determine and designate where
particular hazards exist on streets not designated as through streets, and may
determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to the stop
intersection, and shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop sign is
required. These places are specified in division (F) below.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-70)
   (B)   Vehicles to stop at stop signs. When stop signs are erected as herein
authorized at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line. If there is no stop line, the driver shall stop at a point
nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching
traffic on the intersection roadway before entering the intersection, except
when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-71)
   (C)   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement. No provision of this schedule
for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever any particular division in this schedule does not state that signs are
required, the schedule shall be effective without signs being placed to give
notice thereof.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-72)
   (D)   Stop required when traffic obstructed. No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or
she is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-73)
   (E)   Obedience to signs. Any person failing or refusing to comply with the
directions indicated on any sign, marker or device for the control or direction
of traffic erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of this schedule
when so placed or erected shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as
described in division (G) below. This division (E) shall not be construed to
apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer or
when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-74)
   (F)   Stop intersection schedule. The Board of Aldermen has determined that
vehicles shall stop at all entrances to the following intersections:
      (1)   All three entrances to the intersection of Esquire Drive and Annie
Road;
      (2)   All three entrances to the intersection of Esquire Drive and
Airleigh Place;
      (3)   All three entrances to the intersection of Northcross Drive and
Annie Road;
      (4)   All three entrances to the intersection of Northcross Drive and
Airleigh Place;
      (5)   The entrance of Esquire Drive to Dukes Lake Circle; and
      (6)   The entrance of Esquire Drive to Groveshire Place.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-75)
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of the provisions of this schedule shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $25.
      (2)   If any offender fails to pay the civil penalty set forth in
division (G)(1) above within 20 days after being cited for a violation and
notified of the penalty, the offender shall be subject to an additional civil
penalty of $15.
      (3)   If any offender fails to pay the civil penalty set forth in
division (G)(1) above within 20 days after being notified of the penalty, the
town may seek to collect it any penalty set forth in division (G)(2) above in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
      (4)   The town may seek to enforce the provisions of this schedule
through any appropriate equitable action.
      (5)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-76)
(Ord. passed 10-5-2010; Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
SCHEDULE III. TRUCKS AND LARGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUS. Any motor vehicle designed to carry more than 15 passengers and used
for the transportation of persons; and any motor vehicle, other than taxicab,
designed for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      TRUCK. Commercial motor vehicles that have the following characteristics:
         (a)   Tractor-trailer units, with or without trailers attached;
         (b)   Vehicles exceeding 30 feet in length;
         (c)   Vehicles exceeding seven feet in width; or
         (d)   Vehicles with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-50)
   (B)   Trucks and large vehicles prohibited on certain streets.
      (1)   No person shall drive a truck or bus on the following street(s):
      (2)   Trucks may use the streets described below to the extent necessary
for the purpose of loading or unloading goods, merchandise or equipment, or as
necessitated by street repairs or other emergencies:
         (a)   Academy Street;
         (b)   Cox Street;
         (c)   Foy Street;
         (d)   Trenton Street;
         (e)   Woodson Street.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-51)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   A violation of the provisions of this schedule shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty of $25.
      (2)   If any offender fails to pay the civil penalty set forth in
division (C)(1) above within 20 days after being cited for a violation and
notified of the penalty, the offender shall be subject to an additional civil
penalty of $15.
      (3)   If any offender fails to pay the civil penalty set forth in
division (C)(1) above within 20 days after being notified of the penalty, the
town may seek to collect it any penalty set forth in division (C)(2) above in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
      (4)   The town may seek to enforce the provisions of this schedule
through any appropriate equitable action.
      (5)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-52) (Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   General. It shall be a violation of this division (A) for any
person, firm or corporation to park, or allow the parking of any motor vehicle
between duly erected municipal signs indicating “No Parking”, or words of like
imports, such signs to be erected from time to time as directed by the Board of
Aldermen of the town; provided that, a list of the areas so designated shall be
maintained at all times by the Town Clerk, and to be amended as the Board of
Aldermen direct. Such areas of designation are as follows:
         (a)   North side of West Hargett Street, from the intersection of
Wilmington Street to the intersection of Academy Street;
         (b)   South side of West Foy Street from North Wilmington Street, to a
point 350 feet west, on West Foy Street;
         (c)   Both sides of Franck Street from Cox Street to U.S. 258; and
(1987 Code, § 7-1-10)
         (d)   Both sides of Trenton Street from Hargett Street to Foy Street.
      (2)   Same, specified periods.
         (a)   In addition to division (A)(1) above, it shall a violation of
this division (A) for any person, firm or corporation to park, or allow the
parking of any motor vehicle between duly erected municipal signs which
indicate that parking during specified times is prohibited; provided that:
            1.   Such parking takes place between the times specified by such
duly erected signs; and
            2.   A list of the areas so designated shall be maintained at all
times in the office of the Town Clerk, stating the hours in which parking shall
not occur, and to be amended as the Board of Aldermen may direct.
         (b)   Such areas are as follows:
            1.   Both sides of Onslow Street from Foy Street to Hargett Street
between 7:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., and again from 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.;
            2.   South side of Foy Street from the intersection of the eastern
curb of Nicholson Street with the southern curb of Foy Street eastwardly 0.21
miles between 7:30 a.m. and 8:30 a.m., and again from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-11)
      (3)   Handicapped spaces. It shall be a violation of this division (A)
for any person, firm or corporation to park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle
in a parking space which has been designated and properly marked as reserved to
handicapped use, unless such vehicle has a distinguishing plate or placard
issued under authorization of the state or any other state in the United
States.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-12)
      (4)   Parking at fire hydrants. It shall be a violation of this division
(A) for any person, firm or corporation to park, or allow to be parked, any
vehicle within ten feet of any fire hydrant which is installed as part of the
town or any other water system.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-13)
      (5)   Parking near intersections. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle within 25 feet
of any intersection within the town, except as limited hereafter. Due to lack
of visibility, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle within 25 feet of the intersection of
North Wilmington Street and Foy Street.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-14)
      (6)   Time limited parking. It shall be a violation of this division (A)
for any person, firm or corporation to park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle
for a period longer than may be indicated in a space duly marked with
appropriate signs as may be erected under the direction of the Board of
Aldermen. A list of such parking areas shall be maintained in the office of the
Town Clerk, and amended and updated as the Board of Aldermen may direct. Such
areas are as follows:
         (a)   Two hour parking shall exist in the following locations:
            1.   Designated parking spots numbered one through 12 on the south
side of West Hargett Street between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m;
            2.   Designated parking spots numbered eight through 15 on the east
side of Wilmington Street between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.; and
            3.   Designated parking spots numbered 21 and 22 on North
Wilmington Street between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
         (b)   1.   Loading and unloading zones are designated in the following
locations:
            2.   North side of West Hargett Street between designated parking
spots numbered three through 12.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-15)
      (7)   Parking facing oncoming traffic. It shall be a violation of this
division (A) for any person, firm or corporation to park, or allow to be
parked, any vehicle in a manner in which said vehicle is facing on-coming
traffic in the immediately adjacent lane of traffic; this provision to apply to
the portion of Hargett Street between Modern Tractor Company and Wilmington
Street, and on Wilmington Street between Foy Street and Franck Street.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-16)
      (8)   Parking of oversized vehicles. It shall be unlawful to park any
motor vehicle in excess of 80 inches in width or in excess of 30 feet in
length, or any vehicle with two or more axles, or any trailer, on the streets
within the corporate limits of the city at any time, except when engaged in
loading and unloading, for emergency services or for temporary use at
construction sites during the period of active construction.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-17)
      (9)   Additional restrictions. No person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle, except when conflict with other traffic is imminent or when so
directed by a police officer or traffic control device in any of the following
places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   Within an intersection;
         (c)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing or parking
at the edge or curb of a street; or
         (d)   In front of or in an area that would deny access to a permitted
driveway.
      (10)   Notice to violator. Whenever a member of the Police Department of
the town or other person charged by the Town Administrator to enforce the
provisions of this division (A) shall find that any of the provisions of the
parking ordinances are being, or have been, violated by the owner or operator
of any vehicle, such officer or person shall notify the owner or operator of
the vehicle of the violation by conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a
parking violation notice in such form as the Town Administrator may direct.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-18)
      (11)   Contents of notice. Such parking violation notice stated in
division (A)(10) above shall, among other things, state upon its face the
amount of the penalty for the specific violation and indicate the graduated
penalties which are imposed for failure to pay within the times established in
this division (A); notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalty within
the last prescribed time established by this division (A) shall subject the
offender to a civil action in the nature of debt for the applicable penalty
together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the court; state that the
offender may answer the town parking citation by mailing this citation and the
stated penalty to Post Office Box 245, Richlands, North Carolina 28574 or may
pay the amount at the Town Hall, Wilmington Street, Richlands, and that upon
payment, the case or claim and right of action by the town will be deemed
compromised and settled.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-19)
      (12)   Settlement of claim. The Town Administrator or his or her
designated agent is authorized to accept payments in full and final settlement
of claim or claims, right or rights of action which the town may have to
enforce such penalty by civil action in the nature of debt. Acceptance of a
penalty shall be deemed a full and final release of any and all claims or right
of action arising out of contended violations. The Town Administrator or his or
her designated agent may also settle any parking violation notice if he or she
determines that the notice was received as a result of mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-20)
      (13)   Other remedies. Nothing in this division (A) is intended, nor
shall be construed, to provide that a vehicle parked in violation of any
ordinance regulating the parking of vehicles on public streets or parking areas
may not be towed away in accordance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-21)
      (14)   Fines to be paid to General Fund. All penalties paid to the town
or as may be recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt, as provided in
this division (A), shall be paid to the General Fund of the town.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-22)
      (15)   Penalty.
         (a)   Violations of the provisions of this division (A) shall subject
the offender to a civil penalty, as hereinafter enumerated. These ordinances
shall be referred to as parking ordinances. Civil penalties may be recovered by
the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the penalty within 30 days of the issuance of notice as prescribed by this
division (A). In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175(b), a violation of the parking
ordinances shall not be considered a breach of the penal laws of the state.
         (b)   If any person shall violate a parking ordinance, he shall be
responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not
more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4)
(1987 Code, § 7-1-23)
   (B)   (1)   Purpose. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-301(d), this division (B) is
enacted to provide for the enforcement of parking regulations governing the use
of privately-owned public vehicular areas within the corporate limits of the
town, in order to preserve the ownership rights of private individual owners of
said areas and to provide for the general welfare of the town though the
uniform and orderly regulation of private property opened to the public for
limited purposes and for limited hours during the day.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-30)
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         HOURS OF OPERATION. Those hours during which the business, to which
the public use of privately-owned public vehicular areas is attached, is open
to the public, as determined from time to time by the owner thereof.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A duly authorized police officer, full-time
or auxiliary, of the town, either on duty or specifically authorized to enforce
this division (B) while off duty by the Chief of Police or Board of Aldermen.
         PARKING. The stationary location of a motor vehicle, whether attended
or unattended, or whether in operation or not, upon a privately-owned public
vehicular area, as hereinafter defined.
         PRIVATELY-OWNED VEHICULAR AREA. All or part of the premises owned by a
private individual, partnership or corporation, and which is used or dedicated
for use as driveways, parking spaces or loading and unloading zones for use by
guests or invitees of said owner in the operation of a business upon said
premises, which areas are normally open to public use for the above stated
purposes during the hours of business operation.
         OWNER OF VEHICLE. The registered owner of the vehicle in question, or
the authorized agent thereof.
(1986 Code, § 7-1-31)
      (3)   Prohibited; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to park, or allow to be parked, any vehicle owned by him, her or
them, in or upon a privately-owned public vehicle area within the corporate
limits of the town, without first securing the express prior permission and
consent of the owner of said area, any time prior to 30 minutes before the
opening or 30 minutes after the closing hours of the business to which the
public use of said area is attached; provided that, this division (B) shall
apply only to those businesses and privately-owned public vehicular areas where
the owners or general managers of the business have requested in writing that
the Chief of Police, enforce this regulation upon their property, and who have
provided the Chief of Police with a list of hours of operation for the business
to which the public use is attached. A list of such businesses shall be
maintained as a separate schedule, and made a part of the official public
records of the town; provided further that, any owner of a privately-owned
vehicular area who requests such protection of this section in accordance with
the terms herein stated, shall as a condition precedent to the enforcement of
this division (B) upon his or her property, post notices at reasonable places
upon his or her property stating the hours during which the public shall be
prohibited form use of said privately-owned public vehicular areas.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-32)
      (4)   Penalty. Any vehicle found in violation of this division (B) shall
be towed from said privately-owned vehicular area by a law enforcement officer,
and stored by the town at the owner’s expense and the owner thereof, if
convicted, shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine of up to
$15, plus towing and storage cost, and/or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-33)
      (5)   Intent. It is not intended that this division (B) repeal, abrogate,
annul, suspend impair or interfere with any existing ordinances of the town, or
with alternate rights of owners of private property. However, where these
regulations impose greater restrictions than those otherwise provided by law,
the provisions of this division (B) shall govern.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-34)
(Ord. passed 2-19-1991; Ord. passed 5-11-1999; Ord. 2014-04, passed 10-14-2014;
Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-12-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 6-14-2022; Am.
Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
      
93.   EMERGENCY AND RESCUE
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   SMOKING AND OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Authority
   
90.002   Purposes
   
90.003   Enactment
   
90.004   Conflicting ordinances
   
90.005   Definition
   
90.006   Illustrative enumeration
   
90.007   Creation prohibited
   
90.008   Notice to abate; contents and service
   
90.009   Abatement by town
   
90.010   Payment of costs
   
90.011   Effective date
Health Regulations Generally
   
90.025   Enforcement of this chapter under supervision of County Health Officer
   
90.026   Unlawful to hinder Health Officer or assistants
   
90.027   Right to enter
   
90.028   Property kept clean
   
90.029   Human waste
   
90.030   Stagnant water
   
90.031   Sale of food; eating establishments
   
90.032   Debris from construction
   
90.033   Spitting on sidewalks
   
90.034   Buildings unfit for human habitation
Nuisances Generally
   
90.045   Unreasonably loud noise prohibited
   
90.046   Noises expressly prohibited
   
90.047   Firearms regulated
   
90.048   Posting bills; other advertising
   
90.049   Firebombs and Molotov cocktails prohibited
   
90.050   Open burning regulated
Abandoned, Junked and Nuisance Motor Vehicles
   
90.060   Definitions
   
90.061   Abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicles unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.062   Pre-towing notice; appeal; removal without notice
   
90.063   Post-towing notice
   
90.064   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.065   Redemption of motor vehicle during proceedings
   
90.066   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.067   Immunity
   
90.068   Exceptions to provisions
Weeds, Hedges, Tall Grass and Other Vegetation
   
90.090   Definitions
   
90.091   Weeds or vegetative nuisance unlawful
   
90.092   Trimming plants at intersections
   
90.093   Destruction of trees or bushes
   
90.094   Trimming plants extending over streets
   
90.095   Removal of unsafe trees by owner
   
90.096   Notice to abate
   
90.097   Contents of notice
   
90.098   Service of notice
   
90.099   Persons liable
   
90.100   Abatement by town
   
90.101   Payment of costs
   
90.102   Appeal of order of abatement of nuisance
Rubbish and Litter
   
90.115   Definitions
   
90.116   Litter in public places
   
90.117   Polluting rivers
   
90.118   Scattering rubbish
   
90.119   Placement of litter in receptacle so as to prevent scattering
   
90.120   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
90.121   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
90.122   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
90.123   Truck loads causing litter
   
90.124   Litter in parks, lakes and fountains
   
90.125   Litter on occupied and vacant private property; owner’s duty
   
90.126   Clearing of litter from private property by town
Disorderly Conduct
   
90.140   Disturbing public meetings
   
90.141   Drinking in public
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter, and subsequent chapters, are adopted pursuant to the authority
granted to North Carolina municipalities through G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-01)
§ 90.002 PURPOSES.
   It is the intent of this chapter and its subsequent subchapters, to
encourage a clean, healthy and satisfying environment for its citizens, one
free from nuisances, eyesores, unhealthy or devaluating conditions. To these
ends, this chapter seeks to regulate, identify and provide a means to enforce
the regulations to protect the health, safety and welfare of residents and
property owners.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-02)
§ 90.003 ENACTMENT.
   For the purposes cited above and for the general purposes of promoting the
health, safety and general welfare of the town, the Board of Aldermen of the
town does hereby ordain, adopt and enact this chapter in its entirety,
including text, and all regulations, all of which shall be known as the
“Richlands Nuisance Ordinance”. This chapter shall apply to all land within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-03)
§ 90.004 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter or
inconsistent with its provisions, specifically including previous ordinances of
the town or amendments thereto, are hereby repealed or superseded to the extent
necessary to give this chapter full force and effort.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-04)
§ 90.005 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE is hereby defined as any
person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or
permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the welfare, health or safety of others;
   (B)   Offends decency;
   (C)   Creates offensive odors;
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage;
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 90.006 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Weeds or vegetation allowed to grow to a height greater than eight
inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush, on
any occupied or unoccupied lot or land that may provide safe harborage for
rats, mice, snakes and other vermin;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
   (C)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All noises which may annoy or permit others in their enjoyment of the
use of their property;
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches, including smoke and fires;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (H)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained;
   (I)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground; and/or
   (J)   Any method of human or animal excreta disposal which does not conform
to the provisions of this code, state law or town ordinance, rule or
regulation.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-11)
§ 90.007 CREATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 NOTICE TO ABATE; CONTENTS AND SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town, the Town
Administrator or his or her assigns shall give written notice to the owner or
occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person
causing or maintaining the nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-13)
   (B)   (1)   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall contain:
         (a)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
         (b)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
         (c)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
         (d)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
         (e)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and
no request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the town will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
      (2)   The opportunity for a hearing with the Town Administrator shall be
granted upon written request, properly delivered to the Town Administrator
within the allotted time.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-14)
   (C)   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal
process may be served pursuant to law.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-15) (Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 90.009 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom, in time, notice to abate nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the
Police Chief or other duly designated officer of the town shall proceed to
abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the
abatement thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-16)
§ 90.010 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   Upon completion of the abatement of any nuisance by the town under the
provision of this chapter, the Police Department shall deliver to the Town
Clerk a statement including the costs of labor, hauling or other necessary
items of expense for such abatement. The Town Clerk shall thereupon mail to the
owner of the lot a bill covering the costs. As provided in G.S. § 160A-193, the
amount of the bill shall become a lien upon said property and, if not paid
within 30 days, shall be collected in the same manner as provided for the
collection of delinquent taxes.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-17)
§ 90.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The sections of this chapter, and subsequent chapters of this title, will
become effective as of the date of passage.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-19)
HEALTH REGULATIONS GENERALLY
§ 90.025 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CHAPTER UNDER SUPERVISION OF COUNTY HEALTH
OFFICER.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be under the supervision of the Town
Administrator or his/her designee.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-01)
§ 90.026 UNLAWFUL TO HINDER HEALTH OFFICER OR ASSISTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the Town
Administrator, his/her designee or any of his or her assistants in the lawful
discharge of their duties.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-02) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.027 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The Health Officer or any of his or her assistants shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any premises for the purpose of making the
inspection or investigations as required by this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-03)
§ 90.028 PROPERTY KEPT CLEAN.
   Owners or occupants of premises are required to keep the same clean. Every
person owning or occupying any premises in the corporate limits shall keep the
premises free from weeds, trash and all other forms of animal or vegetable
refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health, or which may
constitute a public nuisance. No owner or occupant of any premises shall bury
therein any animal or vegetable matter which, upon decaying, may become
dangerous or prejudicial to the health or may constitute a nuisance.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.029 HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on any
street, lot or premises, except in approved sanitary facilities.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-05) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.030 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person or occupant of any property shall allow stagnant water to
accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on his, her or their property.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.031 SALE OF FOOD; EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All person, firms or corporations selling food of any kind or serving
prepared meals shall comply with all requirements pertaining thereto of the
State Board of Health.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.032 DEBRIS FROM CONSTRUCTION.
   All refuse and debris, remaining both as a result of the repair of any
building or of the erection and completion of any building, shall be removed by
the property owner within 15 days from the completion of the aforesaid work.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-08) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.033 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall spit upon or throw hulls, peelings or other litter upon any
of the sidewalks of the town.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-09) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.034 BUILDINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The following, if found, shall constitute a dwelling unfit for human
habitation:
      (1)   If it is found to exist, within the municipality, the occupation of
dwellings which the Board of Aldermen finds to be hazardous to the welfare and
dangerous and injurious to the health, safety and morals of the residents of
town due to dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or
other calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary conditions, or due to
other conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary; or
      (2)   It is also found that there exists with the municipality abandoned
structures which the Board finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects and
rodents; conditions creating a frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in
the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (B)    Therefore, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the
repair, closing or demolition of any such dwellings unfit for human habitation
or abandoned structures in accordance with the provisions and procedures set
forth by law and minimum residential housing code.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 90.045 UNREASONABLY LOUD NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or assist
in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably
loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of such character,
intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any
individual is prohibited.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-01) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the
vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for any
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (B)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police, fire
or other emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long-
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (D)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speaker or any other instrument, or sound amplifying device so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance;
   (E)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless the
noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., except in the case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the Town Clerk,
which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the
emergency continues;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street, without
receiving a permit for the same and notification of the town;
   (K)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street adjacent
to any church; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
   (L)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers;
   (M)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or premises
which disturb the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (N)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
   (O)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
   (P)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes, except where specific license
is received from the Board;
   (Q)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
   (R)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substances in the streets or else where for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-02) (Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm of any type
within the corporate limits, except a peace officer in the performance of his
or her duty or other persons in self-defense or in the protection of property.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-03) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 POSTING BILLS; OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any property, owned by any person, firm or
corporation, or owned by the town, any printed, written, painted or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign or poster, without first having obtained the
permission of the owner of such property.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 FIREBOMBS AND MOLOTOV COCKTAILS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is
designed in such a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its
contents, which is filled with a flammable fluid or substance, and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
   (B)   Manufacture, possession and the like. It shall be unlawful for any
person or persons to manufacture, possess, transport or use any Molotov
cocktail or other firebomb.
   (C)   Materials. It shall be unlawful for any person or group of person to
possess all the items or material needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or
other firebombs, other than on his, her or their premises.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-05) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.050 OPEN BURNING REGULATED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of yard waste in such a manner that the
products of combustion resulting from the burning are omitted directly into the
atmosphere without passing through a chimney or a permitted air pollution
control device.
      YARD WASTE. Any grass, weeds, leaves, tree trimmings, plants, shrubbery
pruning, and such other similar materials which are generated in the
maintenance of yards and gardens.
   (B)   Open burning of yard waste prohibited. In coordination with the North
Carolina Administrative Code § .1900, all open burning of yard waste, including
leaves, tree branches, or yard trimmings is prohibited where a public pickup of
yard debris service is provided.
   (C)   Burning trash, refuse, and the like is prohibited. No person shall
burn or cause to burn any trash, refuse, shavings, paper leaves, litter, or
other material of any kind outside any house, business, on or in any street,
sidewalk, alley, lot, or yard within the town limits.
   (D)   Permissible open burning.
      (1)   Open burning for land clearing or right-of-way maintenance if in
accordance with all conditions listed in NCAC § 02D.1903(b)(2).
      (2)   Camp fires and fires used solely for outdoor cooking and other
recreational purposes, or for ceremonial occasions, or for human warmth and
comfort and which do not create a nuisance and do not use synthetic materials,
refuse, or salvageable materials for fuel.
(Ord. 2019-01, passed 6-11-2019) Penalty, see §
90.999
ABANDONED OR DERELICT VEHICLES
§ 90.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of law, a
provision of this code or other ordinance of the town prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Has been left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days.
   APPROVED ENCLOSED BUILDING FOR PURPOSES OF HOUSING MOTOR VEHICLES.
A garage or building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the
junked motor vehicle cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property.
Also, a garage or building structure must be erected pursuant to the lawful
issuance of a building permit and shall be constructed in accordance with all
zoning and building code regulations.
   APPROVED MOTOR VEHICLE COVER. A ready-fit cover made specifically for motor
vehicles, which will resist decay, mildew, and ultra-violet sunlight.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that does not display a current
license plate or:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board of Aldermen;
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood
or area appearance upon a finding by the enforcement officer/building inspector
that such aesthetic regulation is necessary and desirable for the protection of
property values, promotion of tourism, indirect protection of health and
safety, preservation of the character and integrity of the community or
promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area residents;
      (9)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or decayed matter of any kind; or
      (10)   One which has sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges
of metal, plastic or glass.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.061 ABANDONED, JUNKED OR NUISANCE VEHICLES UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or for the
owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is
located to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it has
been declared an abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the town code enforcement officer (or other
municipal official) may determine and declare that the vehicle is a health or
safety hazard or a public nuisance, as defined above, and order the vehicle
removed.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 PRE-TOWING NOTICE; APPEAL; REMOVAL WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   A vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed because it has been
declared to be abandoned, junked or a nuisance vehicle shall be towed only
after notice to the owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. If
the names and mailing addresses of the owners of the vehicle or the real
property upon which it is located can be ascertained in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given to both by first class mail.
The person who mails the notices shall retain a written record to show the
names and addresses to which mailed and the date mailed. If such names and
addresses cannot be ascertained, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle. The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than ten days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle
is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle does not
remove the vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is
an abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicle, such appeal shall be made to the
Chief of Police in writing. Such an appeal must be made within ten days
following receipt of notice of such action and shall be filed with the Police
Department. During the appeal, further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall
be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   Upon failure of the vehicle owner or person entitled to possession to
appeal within the prescribed time, the determination that the vehicle is an
abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicle shall be considered final.
   (D)   An abandoned, junked or nuisance vehicle may be removed without giving
the minimum ten days’ prior notice only in those circumstances where the
authorizing official finds, and enters such findings in appropriate records, a
special need for prompt action to maintain the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.063 POST-TOWING NOTICE.
   (A)   Any vehicle which has been determined to be an abandoned, junked or
nuisance vehicle may be removed to a storage garage or area by a towing
business contracting to perform such services for the town.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or
registration is towed as provided in this subchapter, the enforcement officer/
Building Inspector shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of
the vehicle of the following:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned
to him or her; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
      (2)   If the vehicle has a North Carolina registration plate or
registration, notice shall be given to the owner within 24 hours; if the
vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be given to the owner
within 72 hours. This notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether
or not the owner is reached by telephone, notice shall be mailed to his or her
last-known address unless he or she or his or her agent waives this notice in
writing.
   (C)    Whenever a vehicle with neither a valid registration plate nor
registration is towed, as provided in this subchapter, the enforcement officer/
Building Inspector shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information listed in division (B)
of this section. Unless the owner has otherwise been given notice, it is
presumed that the enforcement officer/Building Inspector has not made
reasonable efforts, as required under this division (C), unless notice that the
vehicle would be towed was posted on the windshield or some other conspicuous
place at least seven days before the towing actually occurred; except, no pre-
towing notice need be given if the vehicle impeded the flow of traffic or
otherwise jeopardized the public welfare so that immediate towing was
necessary.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.064 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After removal of a vehicle declared to be an abandoned, junked or nuisance
vehicle, the owner or other person entitled to possession may request in
writing a hearing to determine if probable cause existed for removing the
vehicle. The requests must be filed with the magistrate in the county where the
vehicle is towed. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of
receipt of the request and a hearing will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.065 REDEMPTION OF MOTOR VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not engage
in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.066 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)    With the consent of the owner, the designated city official may
dispose of any vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without holding it for any
period of time.
   (B)    Any abandoned, hazardous or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled by possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
Disposition of such vehicles shall be carried out in coordination with the town
and in accordance with G.S. §§ 44A-1 through 44A-6.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.067 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town or any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of any junked, lost, abandoned or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle
as contemplated by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.068 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle, which meets the
following conditions:
   (A)   The vehicle is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act.
   (B)   The vehicle is in an approved enclosed building for purposes of
housing motor vehicles.
   (C)   A maximum of one junked motor vehicle of a singular model and year
maybe located in the rear yard, as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance, if
the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view by an approved
motor vehicle cover. The approved motor vehicle cover must remain in good
repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
   (D)    The vehicle is in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 8-13-2024)
§ 90.069 DISPOSITION OF UNSOLD VEHICLES.
   Whenever any motor vehicle which has been removed pursuant to this chapter
shall remain unsold for a period of 60 days from and including the day of its
removal, such vehicle may be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the town
official charged with its safekeeping. Notice of any such destruction or
disposition shall be given to the State Department of Motor Vehicles, such
notice to include all information on which can be reasonably ascertained to
identify such vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-11)
§ 90.070 PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   The proceeds of the sale of a motor vehicle covered in this subchapter,
after all costs of removal, storage, investigation and sale, and satisfaction
of any liens on record on the vehicle have been deducted therefrom and after
any fines or penalties have been paid, shall be held by the Town Clerk for up
to 30 days and paid to the registered owner, after providing satisfactory
evidence of his or her identity upon demand. If the owner does not appear to
claim the remainder of the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the
vehicle, the funds shall be deposited into the Town General Fund and the
owner’s rights therein shall be forever extinguished.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-13)
§ 90.071 UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall park, store or leave or permit the parking or storage of any
unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind, for a period in excess of 48 hours,
whether attended or not, upon any private property within the town, unless the
vehicle is enclosed within a building, garage, carport or, further, is
connected with and essential to the operation of a business enterprise
conducted in a lawful place and manner and properly licensed. The Chief of
Police, upon notice of a violation, may cause either personal or written notice
of such violation to be served upon the owner, tenant, occupant, lessee and/or
the owner of the motor vehicle.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.072 TRAILERS.
   The provision of this subchapter shall pertain to trailers in the same
manner as to other vehicles.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-15)
§ 90.073 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the town, nor any person, shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
any abandoned, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as
contemplated by this subchapter, so long as the town complies with the
requirements of G.S. § 160A-303(f).
(1987 Code, § 8-3-17)
§ 90.074 JUNK YARDS.
   No junk yard shall be permitted within the corporate limits of the town. All
such existing junk yards shall have delivered to them a notice, advising them
that they are to cease operations by 1-1-1990. Junk yards existing beyond this
date shall be in violation of this section.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-18) Penalty, see §
90.999
WEEDS, HEDGES, TALL GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION
§ 90.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS and NUISANCE VEGETATION. Includes the following which may occur on any
lot within the corporate limits of the town:
      (1)   Weeds or tall grass exceeding an average of eight inches in height,
or vegetation providing safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other vermin;
      (2)   Vegetation which obstructs the safe view of traffic at an
intersection or driveway;
      (3)   Vegetation which creates a nuisance by its existence (i.e., poison
ivy, kudzu); and
      (4)   Dead or dying trees or plants which may cause a hazardous situation
if they fall.
(1987 Code, § 8-4-01) (Ord. passed 10-14-1997)
§ 90.091 WEEDS OR VEGETATIVE NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for property owners to permit a weed or vegetative
nuisance condition to exist on their properties.
(1987 Code, § 8-4-02) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 TRIMMING PLANTS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The owner or occupant of any lot or lands lying and abutting on any
intersection of two streets or any combination thereof in the town and having
shrubs or bushes on such lot or lands, shall trim or cause to be trimmed all
shrubs and bushes located within 25 feet of the intersection and abutting the
sidewalk or the normal sidewalk location, so that no bush or shrub shall exceed
three feet in height above the surface of either the sidewalk or the normal
sidewalk location.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.093 DESTRUCTION OF TREES OR BUSHES.
   No person, except by direction or authority of the Director of Public Works,
shall box, bore, cut, break down, deface, injure or destroy any trees, shrubs
or bushes on any street or right-of-way.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.094 TRIMMING PLANTS EXTENDING OVER STREETS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any lot or lands lying and abutting on any
street in the town and having trees, shrubs or bushes on his or her lot or
lands extending over the property line onto such street shall trim or cause to
be trimmed such trees to the clear height of not less than nine feet above the
surface of the sidewalk or street.
   (B)   (1)   No plantings of any sort, with the exception of grass or other
ground cover, shall be allowed in that area between a street and a sidewalk. On
those streets where no sidewalk exists, no plantings of any sort, with the
exception of grass or other ground cover, shall be allowed within three feet of
the edge of the street pavement.
      (2)   Plantings existing at the time this subchapter is adopted (6-9-
1998) shall be allowed to remain subject to the trimming guidelines set out in
§
90.092 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.095 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE TREES BY OWNER.
   The Town Administrator shall have the authority, and it shall be his or her
duty to order trimming, preservation or removal of trees or plants upon private
property when it is found that such an act is necessary to public safety or to
prevent the spread of disease or insects in public trees or places. The
procedure whereby this section shall be enforced shall follow the guidelines as
set forth in §§
90.096 through
90.102 of this chapter. The owner shall not fail to trim, remove or take steps
to preserve such tree within 30 days of the order to trim, remove or preserve
the tree.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.096 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the corporate limits of
the town, the Town Administrator or his or her assign shall give written notice
to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or
upon the person causing or maintaining the nuisance.
   (B)   A chronic violator of the weed or vegetative nuisance ordinance, as
defined by state law, shall, without further notice in the calendar year in
which the notice is given, take action to remedy the violation and the expense
of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as
unpaid taxes. The initial annual notice shall be served by registered or
certified mail.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.097 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall contain:
   (A)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated
time, not to exceed seven days;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
   (C)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   (D)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
such nuisance, assess the cost thereof against such person and/or will assess a
civil penalty.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.098 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served by certified mail or
personally delivered to the violator.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.099 PERSONS LIABLE.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof who
participates or acts in concert, assists, directs, creates or maintains any
condition that is violative of the requirements of this subchapter may be held
responsible for the violation and subject to the penalties and remedies herein
provided.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.100 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   Upon the failure of the violator to abate the nuisance, the Town
Administrator or his or her assign may proceed to abate such nuisance and
prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.101 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   Upon completion of the abatement of any nuisance by the town under the
provisions of this subchapter, the Inspection Division shall deliver to the
Town Finance Officer a statement including the costs of labor, hauling and
other necessary items of expense for such abatement. The Town Finance Officer
shall thereupon mail to the violator a bill covering the costs. When the
violator is the property owner, the amount of the bill may be collected in a
civil action or may become a lien upon said property and, if not paid within 30
days, shall be collected in the same manner as provided for the collection of
delinquent taxes. If the violator is not the property owner, the amount shall
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
§ 90.102 APPEAL OF ORDER OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   At any time before the expiration of the abatement period specified, the
respondent may request a hearing before the Town Administrator or his or her
designee to appeal the finding that a public nuisance exists on the premises.
The request for a hearing must be in writing and must be filed in the office of
the Town Administrator. The Town Administrator shall fix a time for the hearing
and the initial abatement order shall be temporarily suspended pending such
hearing. Failure to request a hearing shall waive the right to do so after the
abatement period has elapsed. At the hearing, the individual affected by the
order shall be given the opportunity to present evidence to refute the findings
which supported the abatement order. Upon completion of the hearing, the Town
Administrator or his or her designee shall consider the evidence before them
and shall either revoke the initial order, issue a final order which differs
from the initial order, or reinstate the initial order as a final abatement
along with appropriate fines.
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
RUBBISH AND LITTER
§ 90.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   PARK. Any park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any
other public area in the town owned or used by the town and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
non-combustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, leaves, weeds, brush,
shrubbery and similar materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-01)
§ 90.116 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the town, except in public receptacles or in private
receptacles for collection.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-02) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.117 POLLUTING RIVERS.
   No person shall deposit any rubbish, paper, paper waste, rags or waste
material of any kind in any river, stream or natural waterway or upon the banks
of same.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-03) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.118 SCATTERING RUBBISH.
   No person shall deposit in or upon, or scatter over or upon any of the
streets, parks or public grounds within the town any paper, paper waste, rags
or waste material of any kind. No person who is the owner of lessee of any lot
or land within the town shall deposit upon any such lot or land, or allow to be
deposited therein.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.119 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLE SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other grounds within the
town.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-05) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.120 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, ditch, street or
other public place within the town the accumulation of litter from any building
or lot or from the public sidewalks.
   (B)   Nor shall any owner or tenant abutting a public thoroughfare allow or
suffer to remain litter upon the adjacent public sidewalk including medians, so
that in such manner, litter rubbish and refuse shall not be allowed to pile up
or accumulate on such public right-of-way.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.121 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No merchant or business within the town shall allow litter to accumulate,
and shall clean and otherwise rid his or her premises, including sidewalks, of
waste matter and litter although the same may not have been deposited by him or
her, his or her agents or his or her patrons.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-07) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.122 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No operator or passenger in any motor vehicle shall throw or deposit litter
on any public street, right-of-way, sidewalk or upon private premises while
such vehicle is either stopped or in motion.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-08) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.123 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No operator of any truck or hauling motor vehicle shall cause to be
scattered on or about public or private premises or streets while in motion or
stopped, any litter, refuse, mud, dirt, sticky substances or rubbish. All loads
shall be secured in such a manner so as to effect compliance with this section.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-09) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.124 LITTER IN PARKS, LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   No camper, spectator, participant, pedestrian, person engaged in
recreational pursuit or other person shall cause litter, rubbish or refuse to
be cast, thrown, deposited or scattered in or around public parks, lakes,
waterways or other public lands, except in containers and receptacles designed
for such use.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-10) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.125 LITTER ON OCCUPIED AND VACANT PRIVATE PROPERTY; OWNER’S DUTY.
   Litter, rubbish or refuse shall not be cast, scattered, thrown or deposited
on or about private property within the corporate limits to the detriment of
public health, safety and welfare. The owner, lessees, agents or others in
charge of premises within the town shall rid such lands and abutting sidewalks
and medians of such nuisance or place it in an authorized receptacle. It shall
likewise be unlawful for any person to dump, place or scatter litter, refuse or
rubbish on or about private premises, whether such premises are vacant or
inhabited.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.126 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY BY TOWN.
   (A)   If it appears that such conditions exist, the Town Administrator shall
cause to be delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the
conditions exits a notice stating the reason why the conditions may constitute
a violation and that a hearing will be held before the Town Administrator at a
place therein fixed, not less than ten, nor more than 30, days after the
delivery or mailing of the notice. The owner or any party in interest shall
have the right to file an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in such hearings.
   (B)   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Town Administrator shall notify, in writing, the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance
and shall order the prompt abatement thereof within seven days from the receipt
of such written notice.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-12)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-174
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 90.140 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(1987 Code, § 8-7-04) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.141 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or sell beer, unfortified
wine, whiskey or alcoholic beverages of any kind on any property owned or
occupied by the town or as approved or permitted by the Board of Aldermen.
(1987 Code, § 8-7-06) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall constitute a criminal liability. The
procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other remedies
that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances
and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal
action against any person, firm or corporation violating the provision of this
chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4. In addition, violators shall be civilly
liable for costs incurred by the town to abate said nuisances.
(1987 Code, § 8-1-18)
   (B)   Any person violating §§
90.025 through
90.034 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if found guilty of
said misdemeanor, is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation.
(1987 Code, § 8-6-11)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
90.045 through
90.050 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if found guilty of
said misdemeanor, is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation. In addition, §§
90.045 through
90.050 of this chapter may be enforced by the assessment of a civil penalty in
the amount of $50 for each separate offense.
(1987 Code, § 8-8-06) (Am. Ord. 2019-01, passed 6-11-2019)
   (D)   Any person violating §§ 90.060 through 90.068 of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. For every day such violation shall thereafter exist,
it shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense; and, if found guilty of
said misdemeanor, be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50
or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation.
(1987 Code, § 8-3-15)
   (E)   (1)   A violator who fails to abate a nuisance in the time specified
in §§
90.090 through
90.102 of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50. No penalty
shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in violation has been notified
of the violation by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service.
      (2)   For each day the violation is not corrected, the violator will be
guilty of a new and separate offense and subject to additional civil penalties.
      (3)   If the violator fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for violation, the penalty may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt.
      (4)   In addition to or in lieu of the penalty, the Town Administrator
may seek a mandatory injunction seeking enforcement of §§
90.090 through
90.102 of this chapter.
      (5)   If the same violation occurs within a five-year period from the
date of the initial violation, it shall be considered to be a continuation of
the initial violation and shall be subject to an additional civil penalty as
set forth in this division (F).
(Ord. 2010-006, passed 10-5-2010)
   (F)   Any person violating §§
90.115 through
90.126 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if found guilty of
said misdemeanor, is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation.
(1987 Code, § 8-5-13)
   (G)    Any person violating §§
90.140 and
90.141 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, if found guilty of
said misdemeanor, is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50
or imprisonment of not more than 30 days for each violation.
(1987 Code, § 8-7-07)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Drainage and utility easements
   
91.002   Driveways and curb cuts
   
91.003   Right-of-way maintenance
Utility Poles
   
91.015   Permit required
   
91.016   Cutting, painting and the like prohibited; exception
Obstructions
   
91.030   Assembly on streets and sidewalks
   
91.031   Display of goods prohibited
   
91.032   Placing objects on streets and sidewalks
   
91.033   Construction near sidewalks
   
91.034   Repair of motor vehicles
   
91.035   Games and the like in streets
   
91.036   Burning in streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
91.037   Use of skateboards, roller skates and scooters
   
91.038   Use of coasters and toy vehicles
   
91.039   Yielding to pedestrians
   
91.040   Riding bicycle on sidewalk
   
91.041   Clinging to motor vehicle
   
91.042   Protective gear required
Use and Cleanliness
   
91.055   Littering prohibited
   
91.056   Maintenance of public areas
Acceptance and Improvement of Public Streets
   
91.070   Policy established
   
91.071   Requirements for petition; costs to be paid by property owners
   
91.072   Costs to be borne by town
   
91.073   Assessment procedure; penalties
   
91.074   Required length of street improvement
   
91.075   Standards and specifications of improvements
Excavation and Repair
   
91.090   Permit to dig in the right-of-way
   
91.091   Provisions of permit
   
91.092   Restoration of streets
   
91.093   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
91.094   Streets not to be damaged
   
91.095   House moving
   
91.096   Damage to bridges and culverts
   
91.097   Damage to lights and signs
   
91.098   Supervision and control
   
91.099   Negligence in excavating on a lot contiguous to street
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DRAINAGE AND UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements for installation and maintenance of utilities and street
drainage facilities are reserved as shown on recorded property plats. Within
these easements, no structures, planting or other materials should be placed or
permitted to remain which may damage or interfere with the installation and
maintenance of utilities, or which may change the direction of flow of drainage
channels in the easements, or which may obstruct or retard the flow of water
through the drainage channels in the easements.
   (B)   The easement area of each lot and all improvements in it shall be
maintained continuously by the owner of the lot, except for those specific
improvements for which a public authority or utility company is responsible.
   (C)   The Public Works Director is allowed to enter all drainage and utility
easements.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-31) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS.
   No person shall install a driveway, service alley or similar connection with
a town street, nor cut or otherwise disturb or damage the street curb or side
drainage, without a permit from the Public Works Director.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-32) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE.
   The portion of the street right-of-way not in active use, by installation of
roadway, sidewalks or other improvements or services, by the town shall be
maintained by the abutting property owner.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-33)
UTILITY POLES
§ 91.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No poles for electric, telegraph, telephone or other purposes shall be
placed on any street unless permitted by the town.
(1987 Code, § 4-3-01) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 CUTTING, PAINTING AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure by cutting, painting,
posting of bills or other materials on, any telegraph, telephone, electric
light or power pole on any street or public place in the town; provided that,
nothing herein shall be construed to apply to any officer or employee of the
town, or of the utility company removing any pole in the discharge of his or
her duty.
(1987 Code, § 4-3-05) Penalty, see §
91.999
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.030 ASSEMBLY ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except as provided in
Ch. 92 of this code, it shall be unlawful for crowds or assemblages of persons
to congregate on the streets or sidewalks of the town in such a way as to
unnecessarily interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic. Any person
refusing to disperse upon being so ordered by a police officer shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-01) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.031 DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or set out
for exhibition any goods, wares or merchandise directly connected with the
business transacted by him or her, on the sidewalk in front of a place of
business, store or building owned, controlled or occupied by him or her.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-02) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.032 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any vehicles,
boxes, crates, vending machines, casks or barrels of any description or any
other obstruction of any kind.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-03) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.033 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALKS.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-04) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.034 REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair a motor
vehicle on a paved street of the town, except in case of emergency.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-05) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.035 GAMES AND THE LIKE IN STREETS.
   No person shall play baseball, football or any other game of ball, or shall
pitch or catch a ball on any street or sidewalk within the corporate limits of
the town.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-06) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 BURNING IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn trash,
garbage, junk, debris, leaves, branches or other articles on any street or
sidewalk of the town.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-07) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 USE OF SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No person shall skateboard, roller skate or ride a non-motorized
scooter upon any street, except while crossing at a crosswalk or intersection.
No person shall skateboard, roller skate or ride a non-motorized scooter upon
any sidewalk between the hours beginning one hour before sunset and ending one
hour after sunrise.
   (B)   No person shall skateboard, roller skate or ride a non-motorized
scooter upon the premises of any municipal building or of any municipal parking
facility, unless designated by the town as a skating area, or to ride any of
such devices on any sidewalk located in the Central Business District of the
town, hereby defined as being:
      (1)   Along Hargett Street from the western intersection of Hargett
Street and Wilmington Street to the eastern intersection of Hargett Street and
Academy Street; and
      (2)   Along Wilmington Street form the southern intersection of
Wilmington Street and Foy Street to the northern intersection of Wilmington
Street and Franck Street.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-08) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 USE OF COASTERS AND TOY VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride on a coaster, sled, toy wagon, tricycle or toy vehicle
on any street, except while crossing at a crosswalk or intersection.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-09) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.039 YIELDING TO PEDESTRIANS.
   On sidewalks in which skateboarding, roller skates and non-motorized
scooters are permitted, riders shall, at all times, yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-10) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.040 RIDING BICYCLE ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on any sidewalk within town.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-11) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 CLINGING TO MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding a bicycle, sled, roller skates,
skateboard or any non-motorized vehicle to attach it or himself or herself to a
vehicle which is in motion on a street.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-12) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 PROTECTIVE GEAR REQUIRED.
   (A)   All persons under the age of 16 who operate a bicycle, skateboard,
roller skates or a non-motorized scooter on a public street or sidewalk shall
wear a helmet that is securely fastened under the chin and which meets the:
      (1)   Standards established by the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI); or
      (2)   Standards established by the Snell Memorial Foundation’s 1984
standards for protective gear.
   (B)   All persons under the age of 16 who operate a skateboard or similar
device on any municipally- owned property designated for such use shall, in
addition to a helmet, wear protective knee pads and elbow pads.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. passed 6-12-2007) Penalty, see §
91.999
USE AND CLEANLINESS
§ 91.055 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk, or upon any
private property, except with written permission of the owner or occupant of
such private property, any trash, refuse, garbage, building material, can,
bottles, broken glass, paper, tree trimmings, shrubbery or any type of litter.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-21)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the town or upon private property.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-22)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to
the carrying on of the principal business of any such commercial establishment
or premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of
any public way, shall keep and maintain such areas clean and free from trash,
litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown, deposited or cast upon
such street or other public way.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-23)
   (B)   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas
within the town. Such receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to
prevent scattering any trash, litter, rubbish or other material deposited
therein.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-24)
Penalty, see §
91.999
ACCEPTANCE AND IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC STREETS
§ 91.070 POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   The Board will consider the construction of curb and gutter, street and
sidewalk improvements along any public street only when a petition is presented
to the Board by the abutting property owners requesting such improvement. No
petition for curb and gutter, street and sidewalk improvements will be
considered unless such petition is signed by no less than 51% of the property
owners who represent at least 51% of the lineal footage abutting such
improvement.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-01)
§ 91.071 REQUIREMENTS FOR PETITION; COSTS TO BE PAID BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   In order to receive consideration, a petition submitted to the Board shall
specify that the property owners requesting the improvement will pay for 50% of
the total cost. The basis of the assessment shall be the property owner
frontage that abuts the requested improvement at an equal rate per foot.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-02)
§ 91.072 COSTS TO BE BORNE BY TOWN.
   The town will bear the remaining total costs of any curb and gutter, street
and sidewalk project and the total cost of constructing such improvement at
street intersections.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-03)
§ 91.073 ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   When a curb and gutter, street or sidewalk improvement petition is
approved and when funds are available, the Board may undertake such curb and
gutter, street and sidewalk improvement, and it shall assess the abutting
property owners for their proportionate share of such improvements in
accordance with the assessment procedure as specified in G.S. §§ 160A-216
through 160A-238, at an equal rate per front foot.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-04)
   (B)   Property owners who fail or refuse to pay their assessment for curb
and gutter, street or sidewalk improvements at the time the assessment becomes
due shall pay their assessment in five equal annual installments and shall be
charged interest thereon at the rate of 8% per annum as required by G.S. §§
160A-232 and 160A-233.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-05)
§ 91.074 REQUIRED LENGTH OF STREET IMPROVEMENT.
   No petition for curb and gutter, street and sidewalk improvements will be
considered by the Board unless the improvements extends for a distance of not
less than one normal residential block and includes both sides of a street.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-06)
§ 91.075 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Construction of curb and gutters, street and sidewalk improvements and the
construction or reconstruction of culverts, ditches, other drainage structures
and driveway entrances shall be constructed in accordance with the written
standards and specifications that may now or hereafter be adopted by the town,
and all work shall be done under the supervision of the town official appointed
for this purpose by the Board.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-07)
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 91.090 PERMIT TO DIG IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation or do any other
work which may cause a dangerous condition in or on any street, alley,
sidewalk, public way or public place in the town, unless a written permit
therefor shall have been first obtained from the Town Administrator or his or
her assign. No permit shall be issued in any case where a bond is required,
until a bond shall have been executed and filed with the Town Administrator.
The officers having authority to grant the desired permit may refuse to grant
the same for good and sufficient cause, but the applicant therefor shall have
the right to appeal such refusal to the Board of Aldermen.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-11) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.091 PROVISIONS OF PERMIT.
   Every permit for excavations in, or work upon, the streets, alleys,
sidewalks or public places of the town shall specify the location, character
and extent of the proposed excavation or work, the name of the person to whom
the same is granted, and the name of the person by whom the excavation is to be
made or the work to be done. The permit shall also specify that the same shall
become void if the excavation or work authorized therein shall not be begun and
completed within a time to be specified therein, and shall require that notice
of the proposed work be given to the police communications center 24 hours in
advance of beginning the work. In an emergency, such notice shall be given as
soon as possible. Such permit shall further provide that the same is subject at
any time to be revoked by the Board of Aldermen, Director of Public Works or
Town Administrator. It shall be unlawful for any person to neglect or refuse to
comply with the provisions of such permit, or to make any excavation, do any
work or continue the excavation of work after the expiration or revocation of
the permit.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-12) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.092 RESTORATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or public place of the
town shall be torn, dug up or taken up, for any purpose, the person doing the
same shall immediately upon the completion of such purpose, and as speedily as
practicable during the accomplishment thereof, return the earth, ram and water-
tamp or puddle the same to firm and solid bearing, in such manner as will
entirely prevent the settling of such earth; and shall replace the surface of
the street, sidewalk, alley or public place and restore the same to a condition
as good in all respects as before the excavation was made, all of which shall
be done according to the directions of the Director of Public Works and the
Town Administrator, and to their satisfaction. Any person neglecting, refusing
or failing to comply with any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
violation thereof, and where such neglect, refusal or failure is continued,
after notice from the Town Administrator, every day’s continuance thereof shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Persons who make excavations or perform other work in or on any street
or public way shall traffic control and warning measures in compliance with the
guidelines in the Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, published by the
U.S. Department of Transportation, and the Construction and Maintenance
Operations Supplement (to the MUTCD) published by the State Department of
Transportation.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-13)
§ 91.093 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation for any purpose whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks to
fail to securely cover such excavations with planks, or place ropes around the
same three feet from the ground or to fail to provide sufficient illumination
to provide warning to the traveling public including pedestrians.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-14) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.094 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, or run, or
cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt, bitulithic, warrenite or other permanently paved street
of the town which shall be liable, in any way, to injure or cut the surface
thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same
manner.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-15) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.095 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building, except a mobile home, as defined
in this code, upon or across the public streets or sidewalks without the
written consent of the Board and the deposit of a good and sufficient bond in
the sum of $350,000 to cover damage done to such street or sidewalk or to any
property of any person.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-16) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.096 DAMAGE TO BRIDGES AND CULVERTS.
   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert, ditch
and drain or other property belonging to or used by the town, or shall place
any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or drain, to prevent the free flow of
water on or over the streets of the town.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-17) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.097 DAMAGE TO LIGHTS AND SIGNS.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal or bulletin board or other
municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks, except employees of the town
in performance of their duties.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-18) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.098 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   All excavation and work in the streets, sidewalks, alleys or places of
the town shall be under the supervision and control of the Director of Public
Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the
progress thereof. Upon completion thereof, the Director of Public Works shall
make a final inspection and shall see to it that the street, sidewalk or public
place is restored to a condition as good in all respects as before the
excavation or work was made or done, and that all debris, material, tools and
equipment are removed therefrom.
   (B)   Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof and, where such failure or
refusal is continued after notice from the Director of Public Works, every
day’s continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-19)
§ 91.099 NEGLIGENCE IN EXCAVATING ON A LOT CONTIGUOUS TO STREET.
   Every person is forbidden to make or cause to be made any excavations on any
lot contiguous to any street or sidewalk so negligently that the same, by
caving in or otherwise, may in any manner endanger or injure such street or
sidewalk, or persons using the same.
(1987 Code, § 4-1-20) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The first offense for violating any section of §§
91.030 through
91.042 of this chapter shall be a warning. The second offense for violating any
section of §§
91.030 through
91.042 of this chapter shall be a fine not more than $25. The third and
subsequent offenses shall be not more than double the previous offense up to a
maximum of a $500 fine.
(1987 Code, § 6-2-14)
CHAPTER 92: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permit required
   
92.03   Application
   
92.04   Issuance
   
92.05   Alternate
   
92.06   Notice to town upon issuance
   
92.07   Processing time of permit applications
   
92.08   Appeal
   
92.09   Standards of conduct for parades
   
92.10   Revocation of permit
   
92.11   Prohibition of vending during parades and picketing
   
92.12   Interference prohibited
   
92.13   Signs
   
92.14   Parking restrictions
   
92.15   Picketing
   
92.16   Receipt of notice of intent; cessation
   
92.17   Compliance and standards
   
92.18   Interference prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Town of Richlands or designee.
   PARADE. Any parade, march or procession of any kind, in or upon the public
streets involving more than four pedestrians or more than three vehicles;
provided, however, the term shall not include:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to or from classes or participating in educational
or recreational activities where such activity is under the supervision and
direction of proper school authorities;
      (3)   Foot races and bicycle races involving no more than ten
participants;
      (4)   Bands and marching groups proceeding to an assembly point for
participation in a parade;
      (5)   The activities of any governmental agency acting within the scope
of its authority;
      (6)   Picketing, as such term is defined in this chapter; and
      (7)   A parade that is conducted under the sponsorship of the town.
   PICKET LINE, PICKETING and PICKETS. Demonstrations, demonstrators, persons
participating in vigils, and other persons primarily promoting or objecting to
a policy or public issue whose actions take place entirely upon the sidewalks
or, if there is no sidewalk, those portions of the public ways not used
primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic and are conducted within a
single block.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, in or upon any public street within the town limits, unless a
permit therefor has been issued by the Chief of Police in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. A parade permit shall not be required for any
parade consisting of fewer than four pedestrians or three vehicles; however,
notice of such small parade may be made in accordance with §
92.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application, on a form supplied by the town, shall be made
to the Chief of Police by persons desiring to have a parade. Such application
shall be submitted at least 72 hours, but not more than 90 days, in advance of
the date on which the parade is proposed to occur. Notwithstanding the
preceding, where good cause is shown for inability to make application at least
72 hours in advance, and when the Chief of Police finds that the time from the
date of filing is sufficient for the town to prepare for the parade pursuant to
the standards set forth in this chapter, the Chief of Police shall consider
applications filed after the deadline, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Employees of the Police Department of the town shall indicate on the
face of the application the time of receipt by the Police Department. The
application shall be signed by the applicant and shall include the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of both the
headquarters of the organization and of its authorized head, and a local number
for the organization if there is one;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person to be present
and responsible for the conduct of the parade (who is referred to in this
chapter as “parade leader”), and, if the parade leader is someone other than
the applicant, the application shall be signed by both the applicant and the
parade leader;
      (4)   The date the parade will be held;
      (5)   The proposed location, by street number or intersection, of any
assembly areas for such parade;
      (6)   The proposed time at which units of the parade will begin to
assemble at any such assembly area(s);
      (7)   The proposed times at which the parade will begin and terminate;
      (8)   The proposed route to be traveled, the starting and terminating
points, or the location of the parade if there is no traveling;
      (9)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or a portion
of the width of the streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys or other public places
proposed to be traversed or occupied;
      (10)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles expected
to participate, and the type of animals and a description of any vehicles;
      (11)   Any alternate date proposed in case of inclement weather or other
emergency conditions arising between the date of permit issuance and the event
date; and
      (12)   Any additional information which the Chief of Police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit shall be
issued.
   (C)   The application, and information provided therein, shall be a part of
any permit that is granted.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.04 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Unless the Chief of Police makes one or more of the findings specified
below, a permit, on a form supplied by the town, shall be issued to the
applicant. The permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant, or in the
name of the parade leader, if different from the applicant. The permit shall be
deemed issued under the terms and for the purposes stated in the application,
unless otherwise noted. The permit shall set the duration, speed of travel and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade; may prescribe the portions or
areas of streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places to be used; and may
impose such other reasonable requirements necessary for the control and free
movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, including emergency services, to
protect the safety and property rights of participants and of the general
public. The town reserves the right and authority to have police officials on
the scene to further designate (expand or limit) permitted area(s) in
furtherance of the ordinance in the best interest of all parties involved.
   (B)   The application for a permit shall be issued by the Chief of Police,
unless the Chief, based on specific facts stated, makes any of the following
findings in writing:
      (1)   Adequate provision cannot be made for the safe and orderly movement
of the parade and for other traffic, pedestrian and vehicular, contiguous to
its route;
      (2)   The parade cannot be held without unreasonable interference with
the provision of normal police or fire protection or emergency services to the
public;
      (3)   The parade cannot be held without unreasonable interference with
the right of property owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful use and
occupancy of their property;
      (4)   The standards set forth in §
92.09 of this chapter will not be met; and
      (5)   The parade will require the closing of, or unreasonably restrict
the flow of vehicular traffic along, a highway under the control of the state.
If this is the case, the applicant should seek permission from appropriate
state officials prior to making reapplication for a parade permit.
   (C)   In the event the Chief of Police denies an application, the Chief
shall so notify the applicant, in writing, specifying the reason(s) for the
denial. Such notice of denial shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
shown on the application. If the parade is proposed to be held within five days
of the date of the notice of denial, the Chief of Police shall also cause the
Police Department to make a reasonable attempt to notify the applicant of the
denial by telephone, or other appropriate means.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.05 ALTERNATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, in denying an application as submitted, may grant
a permit for a date, time, place or over a route different from that named by
the applicant, or may impose requirements and conditions other than those
contained in the application.
   (B)   An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall, within 24
hours after notice of the denial and offer of an alternate permit, file with
the Chief of Police a written notice of acceptance of the alternate permit, on
a form supplied by the town.
   (C)   An alternate permit, once accepted, shall conform to the requirements
and shall have the effect of a permit issued strictly in response to an
application.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.06 NOTICE TO TOWN UPON ISSUANCE.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade or picketing permit, the Chief of
Police shall send a copy of such permit to the following persons:
   (A)   The Town Administrator;
   (B)   The Town Attorney; and
   (C)   The Town Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.07 PROCESSING TIME OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Applications shall be processed and permits, or denials thereof, issued as
expeditiously as possible, and in no event more than 48 hours after receipt of
the complete application. If the application was submitted more than 15 days in
advance of the parade, the permit, notice of denial of the permit, or notice of
permit denial and offer of alternate permit, shall be mailed by first class
mail to the applicant at the address shown on the application. In all other
cases, the Police Department shall, in addition to mailing, exercise reasonable
diligence to attempt to notify the applicant by telephone, or other reasonable
means of communication, of the action taken as soon as possible.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.08 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by action taken pursuant to this chapter may file
a written notice of appeal of the action of the Police Chief with the Town
Administrator within five business days of the Police Chief’s action. Such
written notice shall identify the person filing the appeal and shall specify
with particularity the facts and basis for the appeal. The Town Administrator
shall act on the appeal as expeditiously as possible.
   (B)   The action or decision of the Town Administrator may be appealed to
the Town Board of Aldermen by the filing of a written notice of appeal of the
action of the Town Administrator with the Town Clerk within five business days
of the date of the Administrator’s decision. Such written notice shall identify
the person filing the appeal and shall specify with particularity the facts and
basis for the appeal. The Town Board shall hear an appeal at the first
regularly scheduled Town Board meeting at which the law allows the matter to be
considered following receipt of the notice of appeal.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.09 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR PARADES.
   All applicable laws and regulations and the following standards shall apply
to all parades conducted in the town.
   (A)   No more than one parade may be conducted within the town at any one
time.
   (B)   The prohibitions contained in G.S. § 14-277.2 against possession of
dangerous weapons shall be strictly enforced.
   (C)   No person shall cause or permit a vicious animal to participate in, or
proceed along the route of, a parade.
   (D)   (1)   No parade may be conducted on weekdays between the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 9:00 a.m., or between 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. (the exception being the
Richlands High School Homecoming Parade), or on holidays and weekends before 9:
00 a.m.
      (2)   All parades must be conducted during daylight hours, the exception
being the annual Christmas/Holiday Parade.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police may revoke any permit granted for a parade for the
following causes:
   (A)   The substantial violation of this chapter or the terms and conditions
of the permit; or
   (B)   The violation of other laws by those participating in the parade.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.11 PROHIBITION OF VENDING DURING PARADES AND PICKETING.
   It is unlawful for any persons to sell or offer for sale any goods, wares or
merchandise in or on any portion of the adjacent streets, sidewalks or rights-
of-way of a parade or picketing location during the times that a parade or
picket is in progress and for 30 minutes before and for 30 minutes after the
end of the parade or picket.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade being
conducted under authority of a lawfully issued permit. No driver of any vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such
vehicles or persons are in motion and identifiable as a parade under this
chapter. No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any picket
line or picketing lawfully conducted.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.13 SIGNS.
   Signs or posters carried by participants in a parade, picketers or by
bystanders shall be made of cardboard no thicker than one-fourth inch. Signs
may be no larger than 24 inches by 24 inches. Supports for such signs or
posters shall be made of a non-metallic material no larger than three and one-
half inches by one inch. Exceptions are banners denoting marching bands and
school and/or recreation athletic teams.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Chief of Police, when reasonably necessary, may prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a street or highway constituting a part of the route
of a parade or picket. The Chief of Police shall cause signs to be posted to
such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street if such signs are posted less than 12 hours in advance.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 PICKETING.
   Peaceful picketing shall be permitted in the town; provided, such picketing
is done in accordance with the following conditions.
   (A)   Except for the small group exception set forth below, no picketing
shall be conducted on the sidewalks or public ways of the town and no person
shall participate in picketing unless notice of intent to picket has been given
to the Chief of Police and a receipt for such notice has been issued and is
carried at the picket by the person to whom issued.
   (B)   A group consisting of fewer than ten persons may picket without
providing a notice of intent to picket (“small group exception”), although such
notice is encouraged to enable the town to plan and prepare to protect the
safety and property rights of participants and of the general public.
   (C)   The notice of intent to picket shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing to picket, unless the group desires anonymity, in which case no name
is required;
      (2)   The location or locations, by block, in the town where the pickets
propose to assemble and picket;
      (3)   The date(s) and hour(s) during which the picketing is to occur; and
      (4)   The identity of person(s) organizing or otherwise in charge of the
picketing activity, unless anonymity is desired and the name of the participant
who will carry the receipt of notice at the picket.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in picketing before or about
the residence or dwelling of any individual.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 RECEIPT OF NOTICE OF INTENT; CESSATION.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of a notice of intent to picket, properly completed
as specified herein, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall
immediately issue a receipt of notice. The receipt of notice shall contain all
information stated in the notice of intent to picket.
   (B)   In the event picketing ceases for 24 hours or more, a new notice of
intent to picket and receipt of notice shall be required before resumption of
picketing.
   (C)   To enable the town to plan and prepare to protect the safety and
property rights of participants and of the general public a group of 50 or more
persons desiring to picket must provide written notice at least 24 hours in
advance of the commencement of picketing.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
§ 92.17 COMPLIANCE AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any
picketing in the town unless in the company of the person to whom a receipt of
notice of intent to picket has been issued, unless the person qualifies under
the small group exception. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
participate in picketing except in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The following standards for picketing apply.
      (1)   Picketing shall be conducted only on the sidewalks or portions of
the public ways not used primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic.
      (2)   Picketers may carry written or printed placards or signs; provided,
such signs meet the requirements set forth in §
92.13 of this chapter.
      (3)   If pickets promoting different objectives, causes, actions or
policies desire to use a sidewalk that is already used for picketing, the Chief
of Police shall allot time to each group of pickets for the use of the sidewalk
on an equitable basis.
      (4)   Pickets shall use the outermost half of the sidewalk or other
public way nearest the street and shall not, at any time, nor in any way,
obstruct, interfere with or block:
         (a)   Persons entering or exiting from vehicles;
         (b)   Persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way;
         (c)   The entrance or exit of any building or access to property; or
         (d)   Pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (5)   No person picketing, or observing or assisting pickets, shall bring
to the picket, or allow to remain in the area of the picket, any vicious
animal.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in picketing to carry,
possess or have in his or her immediate access any dangerous weapon, as such
term is defined in G.S. §§ 14-269, 14-269.2, 14-284.1 and 14-288.8.
      (7)   The town reserves the right and authority to have police officials
on the scene to further designate (expand or limit) permitted area(s) in
furtherance of the ordinance in the best interest of all parties involved.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
pickets in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive or
threatening language to or at those pickets which would tend to provoke the
pickets or others to a breach of the peace.
   (B)   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in such numbers as would tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their
lawful objectives, direct the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest
any person who fails to absent himself or herself from the place of assemblage
when so directed by the police.
   (C)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall
be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing such crowd shall disperse or
move on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a police
officer, as herein provided.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The town may enforce this chapter in any of the following ways.
   (A)   Criminal enforcement. By treating the violation thereof as a criminal
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Civil enforcement. By the levy of a civil penalty in the amount of
$300. Civil penalties remaining unpaid after seven days may be collected by
means of a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   Equitable remedies. By pursuing equitable remedies that will issue
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Separate offenses. With respect to violations of this chapter that are
continuous with respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a
separate offense. With respect to other violations, each act constitutes a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-1-2012)
CHAPTER 93: EMERGENCY AND RESCUE
Section
   
93.01   “State of emergency” defined
   
93.02   Curfew
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 “STATE OF EMERGENCY” DEFINED.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-01)
§ 93.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the
town is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency and, in
order to more effectively protect the lives, safety and property of people
within the town, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons within
the jurisdiction of the town.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-02)
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application
of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
corporate limits of the town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and any
other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
of the people within the town.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-03)
   (C)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state and curfew as soon as
circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Town Board.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-04)
   (D)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew
has been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to the curfew:
      (1)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property, unless in search of medical assistance, food or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of himself or herself
or his or her family or some member thereof;
      (2)   To possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell, give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition or
dangerous weapon of any kind;
      (3)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to
possess or consume the same off one’s own premises; and/or
      (4)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products, or any
other inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the provisions
of the curfew imposed.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-05)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $50 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(1987 Code, § 3-3-06)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Territorial application
   
94.03   Duties of Animal Control Officer
   
94.04   Animal shelter
   
94.05   Interference or concealment
   
94.06   Duty of owner to control animals
   
94.07   Running at large
   
94.08   Animal waste
   
94.09   Public nuisances
   
94.10   Mistreatment of animals prohibited
   
94.11   Cruel treatment prohibited
   
94.12   Notice in case of injury
   
94.13   Destruction of animals that cannot be seized by reasonable means
   
94.14   Setting humane animal traps and authority to receive trapped animals
   
94.15   Impoundment
   
94.16   Humane euthanasia of injured or diseased animals
   
94.17   Handling of stray animals by the public
   
94.18   Dogs in public parks
   
94.19   Wild animals
   
94.20   Keeping livestock
   
94.21   Tethering of horses
   
94.22   Disposal of dead animals
   
94.23   Animal; chicken fighting prohibited
   
94.24   Number of animals allowed
Birds
   
94.40   Bird sanctuary designated
   
94.41   Unlawful to kill birds
   
94.42   Signs permitted
Rabies Control
   
94.55   Compliance with state rabies laws
   
94.56   Vaccination of dogs, cats and other pets
   
94.57   Wearing of collar and tags
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The animal control component of this chapter, which includes
the animal control function for the jurisdiction, however denominated.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS. Any Animal Control Officer employed or authorized
by the jurisdiction.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR. The officer or employee placed in supervision of
Animal Control. In the county, the Animal Control Supervisor shall report to
the Health Director.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The animal shelter operated and maintained by the county for
the purpose of impounding animals under the authority of the chapter or the
general statutes of the state for the care, confinement, return to owner,
adoption or humane euthanasia.
   BREEDER KENNEL. One who breeds more then one breed of animals(s), where by
the animals are bred for sale and or profit.
   CAT. A domestic or feral feline of either sex.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex.
   DOG HAVING DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE PROPENSITIES. A dog which has been
trained or taught to attack humans or other animals, or a dog which habitually
turns over garbage receptacle, habitually destroys shrubs, flowers, grass and
other plant growth, habitually kills other animals, habitually attacks or
attempts to attack persons or habitually performs other similar acts.
   ENCLOSURE. Pen, paddock, stall, stable or pasture with properly hung and
marked fence.
   EQUINE. Horse, mule, donkey and pony.
   HARBORING OF ANIMAL. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed
or sheltered seven days or more, unless the animal is being boarded for a fee.
   HAZARD. Any object above or below ground natural or artificial that could
cause harm or injury to the animal.
   HUNTER KENNEL. Dog must be used only for the purpose of hunting.
   IMPOUNDED. Any animal which is received into custody by the county animal
shelter.
   INCORPORATED AREA. This term shall apply to the area within the corporate
limits of any town or municipality within the county if the governing body of
such town or municipality adopts a resolution indicating that it is to be
treated as an incorporated area under this chapter.
   KEEPER. Any person, acting in the capacity of the owner, or at the owner’s
request, who is responsible for the care, welfare and maintenance of the
animal.
   LIVESTOCK. Any animal(s) (excluding rabbits, dogs and cats), including
riding animals, horses or other beasts of burden, farm animals including, but
not limited to, cattle, swine, goats, sheep, domestic fowl, wild animals and
exotic or unusual animals; or any animal used for breeding purposes.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male dog or cat which has been rendered sterile by a
surgical procedure.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
organization or association owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering,
feeding, harboring or boarded any animal for a fee. The OWNER is responsible
for the care, actions and behavior of his or her animal(s).
   PET KENNEL. Rescue groups with 503C status, someone who fosters animals for
a rescue group.
   PUPPY MILL. An individual or group of individuals that sell or trade to the
general public, puppies and dogs of various breeds from accumulated stock. The
characteristics of a PUPPY MILL are unsanitary conditions, poor quality or
quantity of food, minimal veterinary care and/or overcrowded condition. The
intent of a PUPPY MILL is to make a profit with little regard to the welfare of
the animals in its custody.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. A structure from which a dog cannot escape, or an outside
area enclosed by a fence at least six feet high secured to the ground in a
manner that the dog cannot escape.
   SPAYED FEMALE. A female dog or cat which has been rendered sterile by a
surgical procedure.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal that is not under restraint or is not on the
property of its owner and is wandering at large, or is lost, or does not have
an owner, or does not bear evidence of the identification of any owner.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine as required by state law.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found in the wild state,
particularly those feral, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animals which
generally do not live in or about the habitation of humans, including, but not
limited to, deer, lions, monkeys, raccoons, skunks, squirrels, tigers and
snakes.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-01) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.02 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall be effective within the corporate limits of the town.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-02) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.03 DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall be responsible for the enforcement
within respective jurisdictions of all state and local laws pertaining to the
ownership and control of animals and shall cooperate with all other law
enforcement officers operating within their jurisdiction in fulfilling this
responsibility.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall also serve as Rabies Control Officer.
He or she will implement and enforce the provisions of the state rabies law,
including, but not limited to, the following activities:
      (1)   Collect and impound stray animals;
      (2)   Canvass areas of the county for vaccination of dog/cats;
      (3)   Assist practicing veterinarians in the county in conducting rabies
clinics;
      (4)   Maintain the animal shelter, including records of impounded,
destroyed, reclaimed and adopted animals;
      (5)   Provide at the end of each day, upon request, a list containing
complete descriptions of all animals impounded;
      (6)   Investigate reports of animal bites to determine, whether based on
the findings, confinement or isolation of the animal is required for the
minimum of ten days of observation; and
      (7)   Investigate reports of animal cruelty or abuse.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-03) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.04 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall maintain the county animal shelter
for the purpose of impounding lost, strayed, abandoned or unwanted animals
within the county. These animals are to be held a minimum of five days, unless
for specific health reasons the County Health Director determines it should be
reduced to three days, which is the minimum allowed by state law. The Animal
Control Office will use every reasonable effort to locate and inform the owners
of these animals.
   (B)   The Animal Shelter may be used for the confinement of an animal
following a biting incident or when it becomes vicious or a menace to the
public health and the owner does not have a secure place, which is defined by
the Health Director. The animal will be quarantined for the appropriate time of
observation.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-04) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.05 INTERFERENCE OR CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   Interference. It shall be unlawful to interfere with, hinder, molest,
resist or obstruct employees of Animal Control or its agents or veterinarians
in the performance of any duty authorized by law or ordinance, including
removing animals from traps, cages or other enclosures, except as specifically
provided or authorized by Animal Control.
   (B)   Concealment of animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal,
for the purpose of evading the licensing requirement or rabies vaccination
requirement of the law or any applicable ordinance, any unlicensed animal from
any employee of Animal Control.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-05) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DUTY OF OWNER TO CONTROL ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals within the town shall remain under the immediate control
of their owners or keepers.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, IMMEDIATE CONTROL BY OWNER OR KEEPER
shall be construed to mean:
      (1)   Restrained upon the property of the owner or keeper of the animal
either by being tied, chained, within the confines of a fence designed to
restrain the animal, or an electronically operated fence sufficient to restrain
the animal upon the property or in the presence of the owner or keeper; and
      (2)   While being walked or exercised off the premises or property of the
owner or keeper, the animal must be restrained by a leash connected to a collar
or harness, sufficient to restrain the animal from breaking loose. Cats shall
be exempt from this provision of section.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-06) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, RUNNING AT LARGE shall mean any
animal while roaming, running or self hunting off the property of its owner or
keeper and not under the immediate control of its owner or keeper.
   (B)   While being walked or exercised off the premises or property of the
owner or keeper, the animal must be restrained by a leash connected to a collar
or harness, sufficient to restrain the animal from breaking loose. Cats shall
be exempt from this provision of section.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-07) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas,
public or private property and school grounds, other than that of the owner or
keeper thereof.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-08) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   The actions of an animal constitute a public nuisance when an animal
disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety of, or damages a member of the
general public, or interferes with the ordinary use and enjoyment of another
person’s property.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or
maintain an animal in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance. By way
of example, and not limited to, the following acts or actions by an owner or
possessor of an animal are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are
therefore unlawful:
         (a)   The keeping or maintenance outside a proper enclosure of any dog
or dogs having dangerous propensities;
         (b)   Having an animal that disturbs the rights of, threatens the
safety of, or damages a member of the general public, or interferes with
ordinary use and enjoyment of another person’s property;
         (c)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of
anyone other than its owner/possessor, including, but not limited to, turning
over garbage containers, damaging gardens, flowers or vegetables or defecating
upon the property of another;
         (d)   Maintaining the animals in an unsanitary environment, which
results in offensive odors or is dangerous to the animal or the public health,
safety or welfare, or a failure to maintain a condition of good order and
cleanliness which reduces the probability of transmission of disease;
         (e)   Maintaining the owner’s property in a manner that is offensive,
annoying or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare of the community
because of the number, type, variety, density or location of the animals on the
property;
         (f)   Allowing or permitting an animal to habitually bark, whine,
howl, crow, cackle or any other noise that might interfere with the reasonable
use and enjoyment of neighboring premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.;
         (g)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the
public health;
         (h)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases,
snaps at or attacks pedestrians, joggers, animals walked on a leash by owners,
bicycles or other vehicles; and/or
         (i)   Failing to confine a female dog or cat while in heat in a
building or secure enclosure in such a manner that she will not be in contact
with another dog or cat or attract other animals; provided, this section shall
not be construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within an
enclosed area.
      (2)   Upon receiving a complaint for a nuisance described by the
complainant, the Animal Control Officer shall endeavor to investigate the
complaint within 24 hours. If through investigation these complaints are
substantiated, he or she shall request that the nuisance be corrected within a
24-hour period of notifying the owner/keeper. The Animal Control Officer will
make a return visit to determine whether the initial cause for complaint has
been corrected and may then institute proper legal procedures if the nuisance
has not been abated.
      (3)   Commercial farms are exempt from this section.
   (C)   In addition to any other enforcement remedies available under this
chapter, if the Animal Control Officer declares an animal to be a nuisance
under this section, then the Animal Control Officer has the authority to order
the owner to confine the animal in accordance with the Animal Control Officer’s
instruction. It shall be unlawful for the owner to fail to comply with such an
order or with the instructions in the order.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-09) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to subject or cause to be subjected any
animal to cruel treatment or to deprive or cause to be deprived any animal of
adequate food and water, necessary medical attention, proper shelter,
protection from the weather or humanely clean conditions.
   (A)   Adequate food and water. No person owning or responsible for any
animal may fail to supply the animal with sufficient supply of food and water
as prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Adequate food. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed
24 hours, of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and
age, sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrients for each animal.
Such foodstuff shall be served in a receptacle, dish or container that is
physically clean.
      (2)   Adequate water. A constant access to a supply of clean, fresh water
provided in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   Reasonable medical attention. No person owning or responsible for any
animal shall fail to provide the animal with reasonable medical attention when
the animal is or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive
parasitism or malformed or overgrown hoof.
   (C)   Proper shelter, protection from the weather and humanely clean
conditions. No person owning or responsible for any animal shall fail to
provide the animal with proper shelter, protection from the weather or humanely
clean conditions as prescribed in this section.
      (1)   Outdoor standards. Minimum outdoor standards of shelter shall be as
follows:
         (a)   When sunlight is likely to cause heat exhaustion of an animal
tied or confined outside, sufficient shade by natural or artificial means shall
be provided to protect the animal from direct sunlight; and
         (b)   If a dog is tied or confined unattended outdoors for longer than
60 minutes, an artificial shelter with a minimum of four solid sides, with one
side having an adequate opening to allow the animal to enter and exit the
shelter safely, and firmly attached to a waterproof roof with a floor above
ground with sufficient space to allow for normal sitting, standing, turning,
stretching and sleeping positions, and appropriate to the local climate
conditions for the species concerned, manufactured for the sole purpose of
sheltering dogs shall be provided for the health of the animal. All vehicles/
vessels are excluded for the use of shelter for all animals. Barrels, transport
cages and airline crates are not acceptable for use as shelter for animals.
      (2)   When confinement prohibited. No animal may be confined in a
building, enclosure, car, boat, vehicle or vessel of any kind when extreme heat
or extreme cold will be harmful to its health.
      (3)   Space standards. Minimum space requirements for outdoor enclosures
shall include the following.
         (a)   The shelter shall be structurally sound and maintained in good
repair to protect the animal from injury and to contain the animal.
         (b)   Enclosures shall be constructed and maintained to provide
sufficient space to allow each animal adequate freedom of movement. (Inadequate
space may be indicated by evidence of overcrowding, debility, stress or
abnormal behavior patterns.)
      (4)   Humanely clean conditions. Minimum standards of sanitation
necessary to provide humanely clean conditions for outdoor enclosures shall
include periodic cleaning to remove excretions and other waste materials, dirt
and trash to minimize health hazards.
      (5)   Properly fitted collars required. An owner or keeper of any animal
shall not permit injury to or infliction of pain upon such animal from an
improperly fitting or embedded collar, harness or halter.
   (D)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to operate and or
maintain a puppy mill.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-10) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 CRUEL TREATMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Molestation, torture and the like prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person to molest, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beat or treat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure, poison,
abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general welfare
any animal or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE and TORMENT
and the term CRUELLY BEAT OR TREAT shall be held to include every act, omission
or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted; but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit an Animal Control
Officer, his or her agents or veterinarians from euthanizing dangerous,
unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
   (B)   Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting or teasing an animal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an enclosure or off
the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest or tease any animal
while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper or while the
animal is on the property of its owner or keeper for the purpose of causing
harm to the animal; but such actions of luring, enticing and seizing shall not
be construed to prohibit lawful taking of animals under the jurisdiction and
regulations of this chapter by duly authorized Animal Control Officers.
   (C)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person responsible
for any animal to drop or leave such animal on a street, road, highway or in a
public place or on private property with intent to abandon without provision
for its continuous care, sustenance and shelter. No owner of an animal shall
abandon such animal, except to relinquish the animal to the animal shelter. If
the Animal Control Division finds that an animal has been abandoned, the animal
may be impounded. When it has been suspected the animal has been abandoned in a
house or within a fenced area, the Animal Control Division must make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or manager of the property. The property
will be posted for 72 hours at which time the animal will be removed from the
property. If the owner contacts the Animal Control Division to reclaim the
animal, an explanation for the animal’s abandonment must be provided to the
satisfaction of the Animal Control Supervisor before the animal is reclaimed by
the owner.
   (D)   Performing animal exhibitions. No person may sponsor, promote or train
a wild or domestic animal to participate in unnatural behavior in which the
animal is wrestled, fought, harassed or displayed in such a way that the animal
is abused. This prohibition applies to events and activities taking place in
either public or private facilities or property, and apply regardless of the
purpose of the event or activities and whether or not a fee is charged to
spectators.
   (E)   Confinement of animals in motor vehicle. No person may place or
confine an animal or allow an animal to be placed or confined in a motor
vehicle for such a period of time as to endanger the health or well-being of
such animal due to temperature, lack of food or water, and such other
conditions as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or
death.
      (1)   After making a reasonable effort to find the driver of a vehicle in
which an animal is confined, an employee of the Animal Control Section, at the
direction of a law enforcement officer, may use the least intrusive means to
break and enter the vehicle, if necessary, to remove the animal where
reasonable cause exists to believe that the animal is in the vehicle in
violation of this division (E)(1).
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer removing the animal shall then impound
the animal and leave in a prominent place on the motor vehicle a written notice
of the animal’s impoundment, a brief description of the animal and where and
when the animal may be reclaimed. The Officer may also issue a warning citation
for violation of this division (E)(2).
   (F)   Intentionally striking animals with motor vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for any person to intentionally strike an animal with an automobile or
other vehicle causing injury or death.
   (G)   Authority to use force against animals. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit use of force against an animal which is in the act of causing severe
injury on a human being or a domestic animal.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-11) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 NOTICE IN CASE OF INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who causes injury to an animal
(including livestock) including, but not limited to, running over or hitting a
domesticated animal with any vehicle to fail to notify immediately at least one
of the following: the owner(s) or keeper(s) of the animal (if known or
ascertainable with reasonable efforts made to locate the owner or keeper), an
Animal Control Officer, the appropriate Police or Sheriff’s Department or the
animal shelter.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-12) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that cannot
be seized by reasonable and normal means, retrieved by an Animal Control
Officer, trapped in a humane, live-capture animal trap or tranquilized by
Animal Control, may be humanely destroyed in the field upon the authorization
of the Animal Control Supervisor.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-13) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.14 SETTING HUMANE ANIMAL TRAPS AND AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE TRAPPED ANIMALS.
   An Animal Control Officer is authorized to place, upon request, live animal
traps on private or public property to trap and remove stray, at large,
unwanted or nuisance animals, including cats. It is unlawful for any person
other than an Animal Control Officer to remove any animal from the trap, or to
damage, destroy, move or tamper with the trap. Animal Control is authorized to
receive and impound animals that are trapped by other agencies or persons
within the county.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-14) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of Animal Control to seize and impound, subject to the
provisions of this chapter, all animals, whether domesticated or non-
domesticated, found in violation of the provisions of this chapter whether such
animal shall be in the immediate custody of its owner or otherwise.
   (A)   Each animal impounded shall be identified by permanent records which
indicate: date of impoundment, reason for impoundment, sex, color, general
description, breed, method of acquisition, identification marks and note the
presence of tattoos.
   (B)   For any animal impounded which can be traced to its legal owner, the
owner will be notified that the animal is in custody of the Animal Control.
Upon payment of the current impoundment fee and daily maintenance fee, the
animal shall be returned to its owner unless otherwise so provided for by the
owner in writing. However, the payment of such impoundment fees shall not bar
the imposition of any fine, which may be imposed for the violations of this
chapter.
   (C)   Animal Control Officers are hereby authorized to enter upon any
unfenced/fenced lot, tract or parcel of land for the purpose of seizing and
impounding any animal found thereon in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any animal which cannot be traced to its legal owner may, after a
minimum detainment of five days be placed in an adoptive status. No live animal
may be released from the shelter either for sale or for donation, to research
laboratories or related facilities, as breeding stock for puppy mills or
wholesales for further resale for use in any illegal entrapment or fighting, or
for human consumption. A permanent record describing the final disposition of
an animal, date, names and addresses where applicable, and subsequent fees paid
shall be kept at all times.
   (E)   When an animal is presented by an Animal Control Officer to an
attending veterinarian and when in the professional judgment of that attending
veterinarian the animal should be humanely euthanized because it is suffering
from disease and or injury, then the attending veterinarian in taking action to
euthanize the animal shall be acting as an agent for the county and shall not
be held professionally liable for his or her decision to euthanize.
   (F)   If the owner of any animal impounded under this chapter shall fail to
redeem his or her animal within the time allowed for redemption, any other
person may, upon complying with all provisions of this chapter adopt the animal
from the shelter and be the lawful owner of the animal thereafter.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-15) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.16 HUMANE EUTHANASIA OF INJURED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   Not withstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal impounded
which is badly injured/wounded or diseased (not rabies suspect) and has no
identification shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal
has identification, the animal shelter shall attempt expeditiously to notify
the owner or keeper before euthanizing such animal, but if the owner cannot be
reached readily and the animal is suffering, the Animal Control Supervisor or
his or her designee may cause the animal to be euthanized at his or her
discretion in a humane manner. The animal shelter and Animal Control Section
shall have no liability for euthanizing injured/wounded or diseased animals.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-16) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.17 HANDLING OF STRAY ANIMALS BY THE PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner or
keeper, knowingly and intentionally to harbor, keep in possession by
confinement or otherwise any animal that does not belong to him or her. Any
person in possession of a stray animal shall contact the Animal Control Section
within 72 hours to arrange for impoundment or provide notification of the stray
animal’s description and location and it shall be unlawful for any person,
other than the owner or keeper of an animal, to remove the collar, license tag
or rabies tag from around the neck of the animal.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-17) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 DOGS IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall permit any dog, either owned or in his or her personal
control, to be allowed on property owned by the town where such restriction is
posted by sign(s). No exception shall be made as to size and/or breed of dog.
Service animals are exempt from this section.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-18) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his or her premises any
dangerous wild animal.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks,
performing animal exhibitions or circuses.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-19) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 KEEPING LIVESTOCK.
   Except as provided in
Ch. 153 of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to possess or harbor any livestock within the corporate limits of the town.
This section shall not apply to traveling zoos, circuses or other traveling
commercial animal exhibitions, bona fide farms as defined in
Ch. 153 of this code or small native wildlife species where possession has been
specifically permitted by the State Wildlife Resources Commission. Furthermore,
the Richlands High School is permitted to possess and harbor livestock on the
campus for educational purposes while school is in session. All livestock must
be removed from school grounds in between academic years.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-20) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 2015-02, passed 8-11-2015)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 TETHERING OF HORSES.
   No person shall tether or permit to graze or stand any goat, sheep, cow,
horse, mule or other beast of burden within 50 feet of any residence, dining
room or sleeping apartment.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-21) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, the carcass of any dead
animal in the streets, roads, alleys, woods or waters within the corporate
limits of the town.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-22) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 ANIMAL; CHICKEN FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall incite or cause, any dogs, chickens or other animals to
fight within the town.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-23) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 NUMBER OF ANIMALS ALLOWED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or premises
within the corporate limits more than five domestic animals, specifically
defined as dogs, cats and rabbits. This limitation shall not apply to dogs or
cats less than six months of age.
   (B)   Upon receiving a complaint being made to the Police Department and/or
Code Enforcement Officer by a person specifying the locations where more than
three dogs are being kept in other than a licensed kennel, the Police
Department and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall investigate and, if it is
determined that this section is being violated, the Police Department and/or
Code Enforcement Officer shall notify the person or persons responsible for
keeping such dogs and upon such notice from the Police Department and/or Code
Enforcement Officer , the responsible person or persons shall remove from the
premises the number of dogs in excess of three within 48 hours from the time of
notification.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-28) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005; Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed 11-12-
2024) Penalty, see §
94.99
BIRDS
§ 94.40 BIRD SANCTUARY DESIGNATED.
   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town, and all lands
owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits, is hereby designated
as a bird sanctuary.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-24) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
§ 94.41 UNLAWFUL TO KILL BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or otherwise kill, within the
sanctuary established by §
94.40 of this chapter, any native wild bird; provided that, it shall be lawful
to trap starlings or similar birds or fowls when such birds or fowls are found
to be congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they
constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or property.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-25) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 SIGNS PERMITTED.
   The bird clubs of the town are hereby granted permission to erect such
artistic signs, giving notice of the regulations herein provided, at such
places and of such design as may be approved by the Board.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-27) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 94.55 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE RABIES LAWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to supplement the state law by
providing procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-30) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 6, Pt. 6
§ 94.56 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or have in his or
her custody or control for longer than 14 days a dog/cat four months old or
older unless such dog/cat has been vaccinated with rabies vaccine, approved by
the United States Department of Agriculture. A certificate must be signed by a
licensed veterinarian specifying the vaccine used, the rabies tag number, the
sex and breed of the dog/cat and name of owner.
   (B)   Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director or the
County Board of Health that other animals be vaccinated in order to prevent a
threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful
for any owner or keeper to fail to provide current vaccination against rabies
for the dog/cat and for the animal designated.
   (C)   All rabies vaccines shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian
or a certified rabies vaccinator who may be appointed by the County Health
Director.
   (D)   The owner of a dog or cat not having an attached current rabies
vaccination tag must produce a valid and current rabies vaccination tag or form
within 72 hours of demand by any Animal Control Officer or law enforcement
officer. Failure to produce the tag or form under this division (D) is a
separate offense for each animal owned by such owner.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-31) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.57 WEARING OF COLLAR AND TAGS.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or keeper to
fail to provide the dog or cat with a collar or harness to which a current
rabies tag issued under this section is securely attached. The collar or
harness, with attached tag, must be worn at all times, except during the time
the dogs are performing at show, obedience trials, tracking test, field trials,
training school or hunting or other event sanctioned and supervised by a
recognized organization.
   (B)   Impoundment for not wearing tag. In addition to all other penalties as
prescribed by law, a dog or cat is subject to impoundment in accordance with
the provision of this chapter if the dog or cat is not wearing a current rabies
tag or if the owner of the animal cannot produce sufficient written evidence of
current rabies vaccination.
   (C)   Use of another animal’s tag prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use for any animal a rabies vaccination tag issued to another animal.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-32) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 130A-192
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and any
person convicted of such violation shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a
fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days as provided
in the state’s general statutes. Each day’s violation of this chapter is a
separate offense. In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by
appropriate equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction, or other remedy provided for in G.S. § 160A-
175.
   (B)   Citations assessing civil penalties. Any Animal Control Officer/
personnel shall have the authority to investigate alleged or suspected
violations of this chapter and upon the determination by such person, based on
observation or other evidence, that a violation has occurred, each such person
shall have the authority to issue a written citation for violation of this
chapter and assess a civil penalty in the amount due. Such citation shall be
mailed to the violator by an Animal Control Officer/personnel, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the last known address of the
violator, or shall be personally delivered to the violator or to some
responsible person at the violator’s residence. Service shall be complete upon
personal delivery as provided herein or upon execution of receipt for the
certified mail by the violator or his or her agent in the event of such
service. If a civil penalty duly assessed is not paid with in seven days, the
Animal Control Officer/personnel shall initiate an action in court of competent
jurisdiction to collect such amount due.
   (C)   Other remedies. In addition to assessment of civil penalties, this
chapter may be enforced by any one or more of the remedies set forth in G.S.
Ch. 160A or 153A, as applicable.
(1987 Code, § 8-2-29) (Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKING AND OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
95.01   Authority
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Areas in which smoking and tobacco products are prohibited
   
95.04   Implementation requirements
   
95.05   Signage
   
95.06   Public education
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to G.S. §§ 130A-498 and 160A-174(a).
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by the town, or who contracts with the
town or a third person to perform services for the town, or who otherwise
performs services for the city with or without compensation.
   GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by the town.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The district health department, public health
authority, or county health department, the jurisdiction of which includes the
town.
   PARKS SYSTEM. Any tract of land or body of water comprising part of the
town's parks, playgrounds, natural areas, recreation areas, trails and
greenways, and streams or other bodies of water.
   SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that
is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component
part or accessory of a tobacco product, including, but not limited to,
cigarettes; cigars; little cigars; cheroots; stogies; periques; granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff
flour, Cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine-cut and other chewing tobacco;
shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cutting and sweepings of tobacco; and other
kinds and forms of tobacco. A TOBACCO PRODUCT excludes any product that has
been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   TOWN BUILDING. A building owned, leased as lessor, or the area leased as
lessee and occupied by the town.
   UNIVERSAL 'NO SMOKING AND USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS PROHIBITED' SYMBOL. Symbol
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette and a tobacco
product enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.03 AREAS IN WHICH SMOKING AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS ARE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking and the use of tobacco products are prohibited:
      (1)   In any building owned, leased, or occupied, as herein defined, by
the town;
      (2)   In any town vehicle owned, leased, or controlled by the town; and
      (3)   On any grounds and parks system that are owned, leased, or
controlled by the town, unless specifically designated as a smoking area(s).
   (B)   Smoking and the use of tobacco products are prohibited in town
buildings and on town grounds being used for private events.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.04 IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The town shall post signs that meet all the requirements in §
95.05.
   (B)   The town shall remove all ashtrays and other smoking receptacles from
its buildings and grounds, except for ashtrays and receptacles for sale and not
intended for use on the premises.
   (C)   The person in charge of the grounds of the town building, vehicle, or
grounds, or his or her designee, shall direct a person who is smoking or using
a tobacco product in a prohibited area to cease, and if the person does not
comply, shall contact the Town Police Department.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.05 SIGNAGE.
   The signs required by this chapter must:
   (A)   State in English that smoking and the use of tobacco products are
prohibited, and include the universal "No Smoking and Use of Tobacco Products
Prohibited" symbol;
   (B)   Be of sufficient size to be clearly legible to a person of normal
vision, and be conspicuously posted;
   (C)   Be posted at each entrance to a town building and in other locations
within the building to be reasonably calculated to inform employees and the
public of the prohibition; and
   (D)   Be posted on the grounds of the town's parks system in locations and
at intervals reasonably calculated to inform employees and the public of the
prohibition.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.06 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The town shall engage in an ongoing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this chapter to employees and citizens affected by
it, and to guide operators and managers in their compliance with it. In doing
so, the town may rely upon materials and information provided by the local
health department.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty for violation. Following oral or written notice by the person
in charge of an area described in §
95.03, or his or her designee, failure to cease smoking or using tobacco
products constitutes an infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50. A
citation may be issued by a sworn law enforcement officer. Conviction of an
infraction under this section has no consequence other than payment of a
penalty, and no court costs may be assessed.
   (B)   Additional sanctions for employees. In addition to any penalty under
division (A), employees of the town who violate this chapter shall be subject
to disciplinary action consistent with the town's personnel policy.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-19-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   [RESERVED]
      
111.   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL; ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   TAXICABS
      
113.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL; ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Display of Sexually Explicit Material
   
111.01   Intent
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Display
   
111.04   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL
§ 111.01 INTENT.
   It is declared to be the intent and purpose of this subchapter to regulate
the direct commercial distribution of certain explicit sexual materials to
minors in order to aid parents and guardians in supervising and controlling the
access of minors to such material. The Board of Aldermen finds that whatever
social value such material may have for minors can adequately be served by its
availability to young persons through their parents or guardians.
(1987 Code, § 6-4-01)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPLAY. To put or spread before the view of those passing within sight
distance of the matter displayed, in an ostentatious manner designed to attract
attention to or show off the matter displayed. Magazines that meet the
definition of sexually explicit materials shall be considered DISPLAYED if they
are placed in a location (e.g., a magazine rack or shelf) accessible to minors
and arranged in a manner calculated to encourage minors to view or read such
materials. Sexually explicit materials located within any business or
commercial establishment shall not be considered DISPLAYED if they are placed
in a location that is only accessible to adults or if they are located such
that they are only available to customers upon request made to a person in
charge of or employed by such business or commercial establishment.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering or the showing of the female
breast with less than a full opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered make genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse or
physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if such person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual arousal or stimulation.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS. Materials consisting of:
      (1)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body
which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse; and
      (2)   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter, however reproduced,
or sound recording which contains any matter enumerated above or explicit and
detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual
conduct or sadomasochistic abuse.
(1987 Code, § 6-4-02)
§ 111.03 DISPLAY.
   Subject to §
111.04 of this chapter, no person, knowing the character of the materials
involved, shall display or cause or permit the display of any sexually explicit
materials in or on any window, showcase, newsstand, display rack, billboard,
display board, viewing screen, motion picture screen, marquee or similar place
in such manner that the display is visible from any public street, highway,
sidewalk or other public right-of-way, or in any business or commercial
establishment where minors as a part of the general public or otherwise, are or
will probably be exposed to view all or any part of such materials.
(1987 Code, § 6-4-03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any recognized historical society
or museum accorded charitable status by the Federal Government or any library
operated by any unit of state or local government.
(1987 Code, § 6-4-04)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.04 of this chapter by any person shall constitute a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, a violator shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $50 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each and every violation shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.
(1987 Code, § 6-4-05)
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Permit required
   
112.04   Application
   
112.05   Permit issuance criteria
   
112.06   Burden of proof
   
112.07   Issuance of permits
   
112.08   Duration of taxicab permit
   
112.09   Driver qualifications
   
112.10   Vehicle regulations
   
112.11   Operating requirements
   
112.12   Transfer
   
112.13   Revocation
   
112.14   Substitution of vehicles
   
112.15   Number of permits limited
   
112.16   Rates
   
112.17   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of taxicabs, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to license and regulate all taxicabs operated
for hire in the town, in order to promote and protect the safety and welfare of
persons who use hired transportation. These regulations shall apply to all
persons operating taxicabs who pick up passengers within the town, but not to
taxicabs who are only delivering passengers from a starting point outside the
town or taxicabs passing through the town without picking up or delivering
passengers.
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
          For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person, as defined herein, who has applied for a taxicab
permit.
   DRIVER PERMIT. A permit issued to allow a person to drive a taxicab.
   HOLDER. A person who holds a current taxicab permit.
   PERSON. Shall include both singular and plural, and shall mean any natural
person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or any combination of the
preceding or any other legal entity.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating not more than 15 passengers, operated for
hire upon any street or highway within the town on call or on demand, accepting
or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire between points along said
streets or highways or between points within the town and outside the town, as
may be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, but shall
not include “motor carriers” as defined by G.S. § 62-3(17).
   TAXICAB PERMIT. A taxicab permit requested or issued (as the context
requires) pursuant to this chapter. Permits do not constitute franchises and
are non-exclusive.
§ 112.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or other vehicle
for hire upon and over the streets of the town, if the passenger was picked up
within the town limits, without first having applied for and secured from the
Town Administrator a permit as hereinafter set forth.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a taxicab permit shall be in a form approved by
the Town Administrator and shall contain at least the following information,
provided at the applicant’s expense:
      (1)   The full name, physical address, mailing address, electronic mail
address, and business telephone number of each applicant;
      (2)   A certified true copy of a criminal record check and a certified
true copy of a complete driving history check (Division of Motor Vehicles
“Master Check”) on the applicant and each proposed driver of any taxicab
operated by the applicant’s business;
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance coverage on all vehicles to be
operated in the business, with coverage limits of at least $500,000 per person
per accident and $50,000 property damage per accident;
      (4)   Legible photocopies of the current year’s North Carolina State
Inspection certificate for the vehicle, with no discrepancies for each taxicab
to be operated under the certificate; upon request of the Chief of Police, the
applicant shall produce the original of any such Inspection Certificate for
inspection by the Chief;
      (5)   An affidavit or affirmation that neither the applicant nor any
driver of any taxicab to be operated under the subject certificate is subject
to any of the disqualifying conditions set out in G.S. § 160A-304(a); and
      (6)   Any other information required by the Chief of Police and
reasonably related to the health, safety, and welfare of the town’s residents
and other potential taxicab users.
   (B)   Applications shall be submitted at least 30 days in advance of the
desired issuance date or renewal date and shall be accompanied by an
application fee established by the Board of Aldermen.
§ 112.05 PERMIT ISSUANCE CRITERIA.
   In determining a permit should be issued for taxicab or taxicabs, the Town
Administrator may take into consideration, among other things, the following
factors:
   (A)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
   (B)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business;
   (C)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible, and satisfactory;
   (D)   The number of taxicabs to be operated and the condition of such
taxicabs and all appurtenances;
   (E)   The number of taxicabs already permitted and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved or enhanced, and whether or
not adequate provision has been made for off-street parking of the cabs;
   (F)   The schedule of rates proposed to be charged; and
   (G)   Any other relevant information that may be deemed necessary by the
Town Administrator.
§ 112.06 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in the application, and all other facts required for the
granting of a permit.
§ 112.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Any application for a taxicab permit or permits shall be reviewed by the
Chief of Police and the Town Administrator. After due consideration of the
application as provided in this chapter, the Town Administrator shall determine
whether, in his or her judgment and discretion, public convenience and
necessity require that the application be denied, allowed, or allowed in part.
If the application is allowed or allowed in part, then a written permit or
permits shall be issued to the applicant.
§ 112.08 DURATION OF TAXICAB PERMIT.
   A taxicab permit shall constitute a license from the town for the operation
of the number of taxicabs set out therein, within the town and subject to the
provisions of this chapter, for a period of one year from the date of issuance,
unless a shorter period of time is specified in the permit. Applications for
renewal shall be made annually. Applications for renewal shall contain all of
the information required for original applications pursuant to §
112.04. Approvals of taxicab driver applications are separate from taxicab
permits.
§ 112.09 DRIVER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Taxicab driver permits may be issued by the Chief of Police upon a
determination that a proposed taxicab driver has made proper application and
meets the requirements of this section. Such permits may be revoked for failure
to continuously meet the requirements of this section.
   (B)   All taxicab driver applicants shall provide to the Chief of Police a
certified true copy of a criminal record check and a certified true copy of a
complete driving history check (Division of Motor Vehicles “Master Check”).
   (C)   The following conditions and circumstances are grounds for refusal or
revocation of a taxicab driver permit:
      (1)   The driver does not possess a “C” class North Carolina driver’s
license (not a limited driver’s privilege) or is not at least 18 years old; the
driver has accumulated a sufficient number of points against his or her driving
record to justify suspension or revocation of his or her driver’s license under
North Carolina law.
      (2)   The driver has been convicted of driving while impaired, unless the
driver has completed a substance abuse treatment program or an alcohol and drug
education school approved by the Chief of Police; conviction of or a prayer for
judgment for driving a taxicab or other commercial vehicle while impaired in a
three-year period prior to the application.
      (3)   Conviction of, pleading of no contest, or having a prayer for
judgment continued of a state felony, Class 1 misdemeanor, or violation of
federal criminal statutes; conviction, plea of no contest, or prayer for
judgment continued at any time for murder, manslaughter, rape, sexual assault,
sexual offense, armed robbery, kidnapping, or abduction.
      (4)   Determination by a physician that, due to a physical or mental
condition, it would be unsafe to passengers or the general public for the
driver to operate a taxicab.
   (D)   Taxicab driver permits shall be valid for a period of one year and may
be renewed after application for same, based on the same criteria listed above.
Driver permits shall be displayed in the taxicab while it is in service and, if
revoked, shall be promptly surrendered to the Chief of Police.
   (E)   Persons to whom taxicab permits have been issued have an affirmative
responsibility to insure that all persons driving taxicabs under their permit
have a valid taxicab driver permit from the town and to promptly notify the
Chief of Police of any circumstance of which they become aware, related to the
grounds for revocation of a driver permit listed above, that might change a
driver’s qualifications to operate a taxicab.
§ 112.10 VEHICLE REGULATIONS.
   Every vehicle used for transportation of passengers under a taxicab permit
issued by the town shall meet the following requirements at all times and shall
be subject to inspection by the Police Department at all times to determine
compliance with the taxicab regulations.
   (A)   The vehicle must comply at all times with the safety inspection
requirements of the State of North Carolina and all interior safety equipment,
including seat belts, must be functioning properly.
   (B)   The taxicab must be maintained in good condition, relatively free of
interior or exterior damage or deterioration, must be kept clean and sanitary,
and must be kept in good operating order.
   (C)   Each taxicab shall be equipped with a functioning heater and air
conditioner.
   (D)   Each taxicab shall display current and correct information identifying
the name of the taxicab company.
§ 112.11 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each taxicab for which a permit has been issued shall display, in a
clear and legible manner, the following information in a location easily
visible to passengers: the taxicab permit, the name and photographic
identification of the driver, the approved rates, and the name and contact
telephone number for the taxicab company owner.
   (B)   Each taxicab for which a permit has been issued shall be operated in
accordance with state law and this chapter and with due regard to the safety,
comfort, and convenience of passengers and for the safety of the general
public. Taxicabs shall never be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (C)   Taxicab drivers and operators shall conduct themselves in a manner
that is orderly, civil, legal, and in compliance with this chapter at all
times. Drivers shall practice good personal hygiene and shall be dressed in
clean and suitable clothing at all times.
   (D)   Taxicab drivers may not carry weapons in their vehicles or on their
person while on duty.
   (E)   Taxicab drivers shall comply with all reasonable and lawful requests
of passengers regarding speed and routes to be taken. No driver shall deceive
or attempt to deceive any passenger regarding fares, destinations, or routes to
be taken.
   (F)   Taxicab drivers shall search their taxicab at the conclusion of each
trip to discover any articles that may have been left by passengers. Any
personal articles or property found shall be immediately returned to the
rightful owner (if known) or reported and submitted to the Chief of Police.
   (G)   No taxicab driver shall permit more persons (including the driver and
passengers) to occupy a taxicab than the rated seating capacity of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 TRANSFER.
   A permit is not transferable or assignable without the consent and approval
of the Town Administrator. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed
in the same manner as an application for a taxicab permit. The proceedings upon
the application for a transfer shall be the same as those prescribed for the
issuance of a permit, except that the question of public convenience and
necessity need not be proved. No permit will be issued to any applicant unless
the applicant is the holder in due course and for value of the title to the
taxicab.
§ 112.13 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Administrator may at any time, after a hearing, revoke and
render null and void any taxicab permit issued by authority of this chapter for
any one, or more, of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure by the applicant to begin operations within 120 days after
the issuance of the permit;
      (2)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (3)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (4)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
      (5)   Failure to pay any lawfully imposed taxes or license fees;
      (6)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances, or violation of state laws relating to alcoholic
beverages or prostitution;
      (7)   Failure to report accidents;
      (8)   Willful failure to comply with provision of this chapter or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether such
ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted;
      (9)   Any grounds for revocation of a certificate set out in G.S. § 160A-
304 as it is presently written or may hereafter be amended; or
      (10)   Operation of a taxicab by any person who has not obtained a
taxicab driver permit or by any person who is disqualified by this chapter from
operating a taxicab with the actual or constructive knowledge of the holder of
the permit.
   (B)   If a taxicab permit is revoked, no refund of any amount paid by the
applicant will be made by the town.
   (C)   The town shall give the holder of any taxicab permit being considered
for revocation notice and an opportunity to be heard at a hearing. The notice
shall consist of either personal service or a written notice of the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing or the mailing by registered, certified, or
first class mail of such a notice to the holder of the permit at the address
stated by the holder in his or her application for a certificate. If notice is
by personal service, or registered or certified mail, the hearing may not be
held until at least five days after such service as indicated on the return
receipt of the United States Postal Service. If notice is by first class mail,
the hearing may not be held until at least eight days after the mailing of such
notice as certified by the town official or employee who mailed the notice. If
the Town Administrator finds that grounds for revocation of the certificate
exist, then he or she shall either revoke the certificate or may, in his or her
discretion, impose a revocation but suspend the revocation upon such conditions
as he or she believes will ensure compliance of the holder with all applicable
laws and regulations.
§ 112.14 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may substitute a vehicle
for any vehicle covered by the certificate. Prior to putting the substitute
vehicle into operation, such person shall submit an application to substitute a
vehicle and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter with respect to
that vehicle just as if it had been included in his or her original
application.
§ 112.15 NUMBER OF PERMITS LIMITED.
   No person shall hold more than one permit at any one time, although permits
may include authorization for more than one taxicab.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 RATES.
   (A)   The rates that may be charged by the holder of a taxicab permit shall
initially be those set forth in the application for the certificate, or
approved by the Town Administrator in the issuance of the permit (if different
from the proposed).
   (B)   (1)   If a certificate holder desires a change in the rates that may
be charged, the holder shall:
         (a)   Make application for such change to the Town Administrator; and
         (b)   Provide written justification for the proposed change.
      (2)   If the Town Administrator finds that there is adequate
justification for the proposed change, the Administrator shall approve or deny
the change, with any conditions or terms deemed appropriate, and report the
action to the Town Board. Rate schedule actions taken by the Town Administrator
may be made effective immediately, but shall remain provisional for 45 days,
during which time the Town Administrator’s decisions may be:
         (a)   Appealed by the permit holder to the Town Board; or
         (b)   Reviewed and adjusted by the Town Board at its own initiative.
   (C)   Fares shall apply on a per-trip basis. Any additional charges if
multiple passengers consensually share a ride from one starting point to the
same destination shall not be unreasonable. Additional charges may apply if the
remaining passengers desire to hire the taxicab to an additional destination.
§ 112.17 APPEALS.
   Decisions by the Town Administrator with respect to the issuance of taxicab
permits, driver permits, revocation of permits, or approval of rates may be
appealed to the Board of Aldermen.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this section may result in revocations of permits, as set
forth in this chapter, and are subject to civil penalties of $50 per violation
as well as other penalties set forth in §
10.99 of the town code.
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Registration
   
113.03   Residential soliciting prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of solicitations and itinerant merchants authorized, see G.S. §
160A-178
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided that, any
person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies any building or
premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take orders for the sale
of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be performed in the
future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided that, no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provision of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-20)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION.
   Each and every person doing business in the town as a peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor shall file with the Town Clerk, on a form to be provided for
that purpose, a statement setting forth the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of individual filing statement;
   (B)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent or
employee;
   (C)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
   (D)   Description of individual filing statement including height, weight,
sex, age, color and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
   (E)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services to
be rendered;
   (F)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
town; and
   (G)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business,
including the make, model, body style, color and license number.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-21)
§ 113.03 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants
of the residences in the town shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
   (B)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1987 Code, § 6-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Sunday sales
§ 114.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by state law any establishment located in
the corporate limits of the town and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to
G.S. § 18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning
at 10 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 9-12-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Establishment and application
   
130.04   Enforcement
   
130.05   Aiding and abetting; custody
   
130.06   Emergency curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a curfew for minors in the
town and to promote the health, safety and welfare of both minors and adults in
the town and in recognition of:
   (A)   The particular vulnerability of the youth to nighttime and drug
related crime;
   (B)   The inability of many young people to make critical decisions in an
informed, mature manner; and
   (C)   The importance of the parental role in child rearing.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e))
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GUARDIAN. One who legally has the care and management of the person of a
child, defined as minor by this chapter.
   MINOR. A person who has not reached his or her sixteenth birthday and is not
married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United States.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Areas such as, but not limited to, common areas open to all
for common use; alleys, streets or public places, or places of business and
amusement; public vehicular areas, highways and parks; establishments open to
the public for the conduct of business.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e))
§ 130.03 ESTABLISHMENT AND APPLICATION.
   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced as
follows.
   (A)   Time limits. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
public place, as defined in this chapter, in the town between 12:00 a.m. Friday
and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday, or between 12:00 a.m. Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on
Sunday, or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following
morning on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.
   (B)   Exceptions. The restrictions in division (A) do not apply to a minor
who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Responsibility of persons charged with the care and custody of minors.
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person charged with the care
and custody of any minor to allow or permit such minor to be in or upon, or
remain in or upon a public place within the town within the curfew hours set by
division (A) above, except as otherwise provided in division (B) above.
   (D)   Responsibility of business establishments. It is unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating a place of business or amusement to allow
or permit any minor to be in or upon, or to remain in or upon, any place of
business or amusement operated by him, her or them within the curfew hours set
by division (A) above, except as otherwise provided in division (B) above.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When a minor is found to be in a public place during the prescribed
times, the police officer on duty will check the record book kept in the Police
Department of the town to determine if the minor is a first offender. If the
minor is a first offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his or
her parent or guardian. A written warning will be given to that adult and an
information report taken by the officer to include the name of the minor and
adult, and the time, date and location of the offense. This report will be
entered into the Police Department’s record book.
   (B)   If, upon checking the record book or the computer system, the minor is
found to be a repeat offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his
or her parent or guardian and the adult will be subject to a criminal citation
pursuant to §
130.05 of this chapter. A report will be entered in the record book.
   (C)   If the minor is under 12 years of age a report will be made and a copy
forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e))
§ 130.05 AIDING AND ABETTING; CUSTODY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an adult, guardian or
parent to allow, permit, encourage, aid or abet a minor in the violation of §
130.03(A) of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in §
130.03(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   If any guardian or parent refuses to take custody of his or her minor
child found in violation of this chapter, the officers with custody of said
minor shall contact the County Department of Social Services and release the
minor to that agency, pending further investigation by the Police Department
and the Department of Social Services. The adult will be subject to a criminal
citation pursuant to division (A) above.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EMERGENCY CURFEW.
   Under the authority of G.S. § 166A-19.31, whenever the Mayor of the town
deems that an emergency exists, and there is a clear and present danger to the
preservation of the public peace, health, life or safety or to public or
private property in the town necessitating expansion of the curfew provisions
set forth in §
130.03(A) of this chapter, the Mayor may effect such expansion effective for
the period of the emergency by proclamation. The proclamation shall contain a
statement of the reasons for such necessity, the period of the expanded curfew
and provide that no minor under the age of 16 shall be upon or about or remain
upon of about public places, as defined by this chapter, in the town between
the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning unless
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or responsible adult. Said
proclamation may further provide that no parent or guardian of any minor under
the age of 16 shall allow the child to be upon or about or remain upon or about
any public place, as defined by this chapter, in the town between the hours of
8:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning unless the child is under
direction or protection of some adult person with authority and consent of such
parent or guardian for his or her being there. Said proclamation shall become
effective for 30 minutes after being publicly announced by the Mayor for the
said period or until rescinded by the Mayor or repealed by Council in the
manner in which ordinances are repealed. As soon as is reasonably possible the
proclamation shall be published and reported in the local media and posted
conspicuously about the town.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e))
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   The punishment for violation of this chapter shall be a fine of up to $500
and/or imprisonment for up to six months.
(1987 Code, § 3-1-16(e))
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   VACANT PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Property Numbering and Naming
   
150.01   Prefixes for certain streets
   
150.02   Property numbering system
Minimum Housing Code
   
150.15   County Minimum Housing Code adopted by reference
 
   
150.99   Penalty
PROPERTY NUMBERING AND NAMING
§ 150.01 PREFIXES FOR CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   It is necessary for the town to adopt a comprehensive property
numbering system and to designate prefixes for certain streets in the town.
This street designation and numbering system is intended to promote public
convenience and general welfare of the citizens of the town.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-01)
   (B)   Prefixes for the following named streets or parts thereof are hereby
designated as follows.
      (1)   “North” and “South” prefix designation. The portion of the streets
named below that are lying north of Hargett Street are hereby designated or
renamed with the prefix “North” and that portion of the streets named below and
lying south of Hargett Street are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix
“South”:
         (a)   Wilmington Street;
         (b)   Nicholson Street;
         (c)   Onslow Street;
         (d)   Cox Street;
         (e)   Academy Street; and
         (f)   Church Street.
      (2)   “East” and “West” prefix designation. The portion of the streets
that are named below and lying east of Wilmington Street are hereby designated
or renamed with the prefix “East” and the portion of the streets named below
and lying west of Wilmington Street are hereby designated or renamed with the
prefix “West”:
         (a)   Foy Street;
         (b)   Hargett Street;
         (c)   Franck Street; and
         (d)   Richlands Boulevard.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-02)
§ 150.02 PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. The property numbering document, entitled “Property Numbering
System, dated September, 1991, Town of Richlands, NC”, is hereby adopted as the
official property numbering system for the town and all property numbers shall
be assigned in accordance with the numbering system herein, and no other
property numbers shall be displayed in the town, except those assigned in
accordance with the official property numbering system. The property numbering
system shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-41)
   (B)   Property owners to purchase numbers. Every property owner of improved
property shall, on or before 12-31-1991, purchase and display in a conspicuous
place on said property, the number assigned, which shall be of the type
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-42)
   (C)   Numbers for future buildings. All residences and building erected
after the adoption of this section shall be assigned a number by the Town
Administrator in accordance with the property numbering system, and shall
purchase and display such number as provided in division (B) above within 30
days of the initial occupancy or use of such residence or building.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-43)
   (D)   Violation to deface number. It shall be a violation of this section
for any person to alter, deface or take down any number placed on any property
in accordance with this section, except for repair or replacement of said
numbers.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-44)
   (E)   Numbers. All numbers shall be at least three inches high and be of a
contrasting color to the residence or building in order to make the number more
visible from the street. The numbers shall be located on the front of the
residence or building, in proximity to the front doorway.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-45)
   (F)   Notice to violator. Whenever a member of the Police Department of the
town or other person charged by the Town Administrator to enforce the
provisions of the property numbering ordinances shall find that any of the
provisions of the property numbering ordinances are being, or have been,
violated by the owner or occupant of any residence or building, such officer or
person shall notify the owner or occupant of the residence or building of the
violation by hand delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
property numbering violation notice in such form as the Town Administrator may
direct.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-46)
   (G)   Contents of notice. Such property numbering violation notice stated in
division (F) above shall among other things, state upon its face the amount of
the penalty for the specific violation; notify the offender that a failure to
pay the penalty within the last prescribed time established by this section
shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature of debt for the
applicable penalty together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the
court; state that the offender may answer the town property numbering citation
by mailing this citation and the stated penalty to Post Office Box 245,
Richlands, North Carolina 28574 or may pay the amount at the Richlands Town
Hall, Wilmington Street, Richlands 28574 and that upon payment, the case or
claim and right of action by the town will be deemed compromise and settled.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-47)
   (H)   Settlement of claim.
      (1)   The Town Administrator or his or her designated agent is authorized
to accept payments in full and final settlement of claim or claims, right or
rights of action which the town may have to enforce such penalty by civil
action in the nature of debt. Acceptance of a penalty shall be deemed a full
and final release of any and all claims or right of action arising out of
contended violations.
      (2)   The Town Administrator or his or her designated agent may also
settle any property numbering violation notice if he or she determines that the
notice was received as a result of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-48)
   (I)   Fines to be paid to General Fund. All penalties paid to the town or as
may be recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as provided in this
section shall be paid to the General Fund of the town.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-49)
Penalty, see §
150.99
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.15 COUNTY MINIMUM HOUSING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts the County Minimum Housing Ordinance for purposes of
enforcement of the same within the municipal boundaries of the town.
(Res. 2009-07, passed 6-9-2009)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of the provisions of §
150.02 of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty as
hereinafter enumerated. These ordinances shall be referred to as property
numbering ordinances. Civil penalties may be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30
days of the issuance of notice as prescribed by §
150.02 of this chapter. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175(b), a violation of
these ordinances shall not be subject to the penalty provision of G.S. § 14-
4 and shall not be considered a breach of the penal laws of the state.
      (2)   The following penalties shall be imposed for the following
violations.
         (a)   For failure to purchase and display a property number as
prescribed in §
150.02(A) and (B) of this chapter, the penalty shall be $50.
         (b)   For defacing a property number as prescribed in §
150.02(D) of this chapter, the penalty shall be $50.
(1987 Code, § 7-1-50)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.30   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.31   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
151.32   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.33   Corrective procedures
   
151.34   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.45   General standards
   
151.46   Specific standards
   
151.47   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.48   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE, but without established
floodways or non- encroachment areas
   
151.49   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
151.61   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
151.62   Effective date
   
151.63   Adoption certification
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)    The legislature of the state has, in G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, Pt. 6,
G.S. Ch. 153A, Art. 6, G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8, and G.S. Ch. 160D, Arts. 7, 9,
and 11 (effective January 1, 2021), delegated to local governmental units the
authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Aldermen of the town does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)    To protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   To minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   To make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   To maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (J)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
    Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it’s most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “Special Flood Hazard Area,” it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
“freeboard”, establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation”.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING and EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which START OF CONSTRUCTION commenced before the community entered the NFIP,
dated July 3, 1986.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community, dated July 10, 1986.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
(See also DFIRM.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minium 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and models
meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, precipitation exceeding
the base flood, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
The BFE plus the freeboard establishes the “Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation.”
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a certified local government (CLG) program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program.
   Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular
Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carry the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal, replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after July 2, 1987, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before July 2, 1987, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      For the purpose of this chapter, TINY HOMES/HOUSES and park models that
do not meet the items listed above are not considered recreational vehicles and
should meet the standards of and be permitted as residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. Means the BASE FLOOD ELEVATION plus
the FREEBOARD. In special flood hazard areas where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet freeboard.
In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non-compliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. Defined as in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction
of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid, or liquified gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
Community Code Enforcement Official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
151.34.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET.
      (1)   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
      (2)   It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact
Sheets provide guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations.
State or community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence.
Design professionals should contact the community officials to determine
whether more restrictive state or local regulations apply to the building or
site in question. All applicable standards of state or local building code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.30 through
151.34  and
151.45 through
151.49 of this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
    This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra- territorial jurisdictions (ETJ) of the town.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
    The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated June 19, 2020 for Onslow County and associated DFIRM panels,
including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter, and all revisions thereto after
January 1, 2021. Future revisions to the FIS and DFIRM panels that do not
change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional authority of the town are
also adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. Subsequent
Letter of Map Revisions (LOMRs) and/or Physical Map Revisions (PMRs) shall be
adopted within three months.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
    A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.07.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
    No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
    This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
    In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.30 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator, or his or her designee is hereafter referred to as
the “Floodplain Administrator,” is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community’s overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.31 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map, as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter, or a statement that the entire lot is within the
special flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area, as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.07 of this chapter;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s), as
determined in §
151.07 of this chapter;
         (e)    The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided, as set forth in
§§
151.07,
151.32 or
151.47 of this chapter;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or flood-proofed.
      (3)   If flood-proofing, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
34) with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise,
and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood forces
on walls in accordance with §
151.46 of this chapter, when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones
A, AE, AH, AO, A99.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
151.46(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
151.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material shall encroach into the floodway
or non-encroachment area of any watercourse unless the requirements of § 151.49
have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable), (i.e.
parking, building access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement, that all materials below BFE/RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven-day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be the cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in division (A). To the extent possible, these
photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two additional
photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable,
provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the
flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least
3" x 3". Digital photographs are acceptable.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential flood-proofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a flood-proofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the flood-proofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Flood-proofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.46(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/flood-proofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.46(F)(1) above;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.46(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less or $3,000
or less and meeting requirements of §
151.46(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.32 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.49 are met.
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.31(B).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.31(C).
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
151.31(C).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.31(C) and §
151.46(B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (K)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.48(B)(3), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the
floodplain development permit file.
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.33.
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS Report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
151.07, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR- Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.33 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 days, nor more than 180 days.
Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life
or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.34 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by town, hereinafter referred
to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependant facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.05 of this chapter, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3), and (5)
of this section have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development; provided, it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
151.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependant facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases
risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the FEMA and the State of North Carolina
upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non- encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-proofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
    In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback; provided that there is no additional encroachment below
the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.34(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood-proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified according to §
151.31(C) of this chapter.
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (M)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (N)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
    In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
151.31 or §
151.47, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.30, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, AH, AO, A99 may be flood-
proofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the required flood protection elevation are water-
tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with this chapter. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this division (B) are
satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
151.31(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned or finished into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned;
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require openings.
Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is considered an
enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall, shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure; and
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Temporary placement.
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation of a location outside the
special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with §
151.45(A) of this chapter.
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
151.45(D) of this chapter.
      (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of division (D)(4) of this section.
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
or that is a minimal investment of $3,000 or less and satisfies the criteria
outlined above is not required to meet the elevation or floodproofing standards
of division (B) of this section. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.31(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of this chapter shall be permitted in flood
hazard areas provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and
anchored to resist all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during conditions of the design flood and without release of contents
in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall
be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential
buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood
conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or fitted
with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the
contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the design flood.
   (J)   Other development.
      (1)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
151.49.
      (2)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
151.49.
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
151.49.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.47 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
    Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.31 of this chapter, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.45 shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with standards in §§
151.45 and
151.46.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non- encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
151.46 and
151.49.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted by
reference in accordance with §
151.31 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05. All other applicable provisions of §
151.46 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.48 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE, BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
    Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
151.45 and
151.46 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.49 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
    Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.31 of this chapter. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in
addition to standards outlined in §
151.45 and §
151.46, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.46(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted July 10, 1986 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance of the Town of Richlands enacted on July 10, 1986, as amended, which
are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   The date of the initial Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance for Onslow
County is March 2, 1987.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.61 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.62 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective June 19, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.63 ADOPTION CERTIFICATION.
   I hereby certify that this is a true and correct copy of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance as adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the Town of
Richlands, North Carolina, on the 19th day of May, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
    Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Title
   
152.003   Purpose
   
152.004   Authority
   
152.005   Jurisdiction
   
152.006   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.007   Acceptance of streets
   
152.008   Thoroughfare Plan
   
152.009   School sites on land use or Comprehensive Plan
   
152.010   Zoning and other plans
Legal Provisions
   
152.025   General procedure for plat approval
   
152.026   Statement by owner
   
152.027   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
152.028   Variances
   
152.029   Amendments
   
152.030   Abrogation
   
152.031   Effective date
   
152.032   Administrator
   
152.033   Notice
Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
152.045   Plat shall be required on any subdivision of land
   
152.046   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
152.047   Procedures for review of major and minor subdivisions
   
152.048   Procedure for review of minor subdivisions
   
152.049   Sketch plan for major subdivisions
   
152.050   Preliminary plat submission and review
   
152.051   Final plat submission and review
   
152.052   Information to be contained in or depicted on preliminary and final
plat
   
152.053   Recombination of land
   
152.054   Resubdivision procedures
Required Improvements, Dedications, Reservation; Minimum Standards of Design
   
152.065   General
   
152.066   Suitability of land
   
152.067   Name duplication
   
152.068   Subdivision design
   
152.069   Streets
   
152.070   Utilities
   
152.071   Buffering, recreation and open space requirements
   
152.072   Other requirements
   
152.073   Planning Board organization
   
152.074   Quasi-judicial procedure
   
152.075   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
152.076   Conflicts of interest
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless otherwise clearly
required by the context, the words and phrases defined in this section shall
have the meanings herein set forth when used in this chapter. If a word or
phrase used in this chapter is not defined by this section or elsewhere in this
chapter, to the extent such word or phrase is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that
definition shall control.
      BLOCK. A piece of land bounded on one or more sides by streets or roads.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in
front of which no structure shall be erected. Setbacks shall be figured from
the right-of-way line.
      DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, of a right to use of land for a
specified purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is
entailed, DEDICATION must be made by written instrument, and is completed with
an acceptance.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a
specified purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
      ENGINEER. Any person currently registered to practice professional
engineering by the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers.
      FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY or PARKWAY. Divided multi-lane roadway designed to
carry large volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. A FREEWAY is a
divided highway providing for continuous flow of vehicles with no direct access
to abutting property or streets and with access to selected crossroads provided
via connecting ramps. An EXPRESSWAY is a divided highway with full or partial
control of access and generally with grade separations at major intersections.
A PARKWAY is a highway for non-commercial traffic, with full or partial control
of access, and usually located within a park or a ribbon of park-like
development.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full or
partial access controlled facility and functions to provide access to adjacent
land.
      HALF-STREET. A street whose centerline coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary, with one-half the street right-of-way width being contained within
the subdivision plat. Also, any existing street to which the parcel of land to
be subdivided abuts on only one side.
      LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREET. Cul-de-sacs, loop streets less than 2,500 feet
in length, or streets less than one mile in length that do not connect
thoroughfares, or serve major traffic generators, and do not collect traffic
from more than 100 dwelling units.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as
a unit of transfer of ownership or for development or both.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of Register of Deeds of the county prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      LOT TYPES.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees.
         (b)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous (through) lot which is
accessible from both streets upon which it fronts.
         (c)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on more than one street.
         (d)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a corner
lot, an interior lot or a through lot.
         (e)   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access
highway, a railroad, a physical barrier or another type of land use and to
which access from the rear is usually prohibited.
         (f)   THROUGH LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner
lot with frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets
may be referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
      OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Board.
      OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
      PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
      PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the Town of Richlands established
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301.
      PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, building sites or
other division of land and not intended to be public ingress or egress.
      PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way which affords access
to abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement
in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
      PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. An approved sewage disposal system
serving two or more connections including private, municipal and sanitary
district sewage systems designated to serve particular subdivisions at full
development and constructed to specifications of the County Health Department
in consultation with the State Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. An approved water supply system serving 15 or more
connections including county, municipal and sanitary district water systems
designated to serve particular subdivisions at full development and constructed
to specifications of the County Health Department in consultation with the
State Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
      RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of
property rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
      SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM. A ground absorption sewage treatment and disposal
system consisting of a septic tank and a nitrification field, necessary pipe
lines, conduits, pump stations and other appurtenances required for proper
collection, distribution, treatment, disposal, operation and performance, or
any other system approved by the County Health Department.
      SIDEWALK. A four-foot wide paved strip of concrete or similar aggregate
material which is to be located no less than two feet (24 inches) from the
curb.
      STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic (or a private road only if permitted by this chapter). The following
classifications shall apply:
         (a)   SPECIFIC TYPE RURAL OR URBAN STREETS.
            1.   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside
primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties
otherwise abutting on a street.
            2.   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic
and the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround
provided.
            3.   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET. A local access street which
serves as a connector street between local residential streets and the
thoroughfare system. RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREETS typically collect traffic
from 100 to 400 dwelling units.
            4.   RURAL STREET. A street which is designed to carry traffic in
rural areas. These streets are designed to carry traffic from rural areas into
the town and from the town into the surrounding rural areas. RURAL STREETS to
be located within the town's planning jurisdiction will be required to have
curb and gutter.
         (b)   URBAN STREETS.
            1.   LOCAL STREET. Any link not part of a higher-order urban system
which serves primarily to provide direct access to abutting land and access to
higher systems.
            2.   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. Consist of interstate, other freeway and
expressway links and major streets that provide for the expeditious movement of
volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
            3.   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. Important streets in the urban system and
perform the function of collecting traffic from local access streets and
carrying it to the major thoroughfare system by facilitating a minor through
traffic movement and may also abutting property.
      SUBDIVIDER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any subdivision of land and who is the landowner of
the property to be subdivided or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake such subdivision of that property.
      SUBDIVISION. Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions when any one or more of those
divisions is created for the purpose of sale or building development, whether
immediate or future, and shall include all divisions of land involving the
dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets; but the following
shall not be included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations
authorized by this chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in this chapter;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the town, as shown in this chapter;
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Ch. 29.
      SURVEYOR. A licensed surveyor in the State of North Carolina.
      TOWN BOARD. The Board of Aldermen of the Town of Richlands.
   (B)   G.S. Ch. 160D is applicable to this chapter. In the event of any
conflict between this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160D, the provisions of G.S. Ch.
160D shall control.
      (1)   The words "written" or "in writing" are deemed to include
electronic documentation.
      (2)   Unless specified otherwise, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the item for mailing with the United States
Postal Service, and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number include the plural and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
      (5)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust
and company as well as an individual.
      (6)   The word "use for" shall include the meaning "designed for". The
word "structure" shall include the word "building". The word "lot" shall
include the words "plot", "parcel" or "tract". The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Richlands, North Carolina”, and may be referred to as the
“subdivision regulations” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000 ; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.003 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for
the development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of
the town. It is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and
development of the town; for the coordination of transportation networks and
utilities within proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and
highways and with other public facilities; for the dedication or reservation of
recreation areas serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the
subdivision and of rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes;
and for the distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid
congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public
health, safety and the general welfare. This chapter is designed to further
facilitate adequate provision of water, sewerage, parks, schools and
playgrounds, and also to facilitate the further re-subdivision of larger tracts
into smaller parcels of land.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.004 AUTHORITY.
    This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S.
Ch. 160D.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.005 JURISDICTION.
    The regulations contained herein, as provided in G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 8,
shall govern each and every subdivision within the town.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.006 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
    After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the town’s jurisdiction shall be approved by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.007 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
    No street shall be maintained by the town, nor street dedication accepted
for ownership and maintenance in any subdivision for which a plat is required
to be approved, unless and until the requirements of this chapter have been
met. The approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute the acceptance by
the town or public of the dedication of any street or other ground, public
utility line, or other public facility shown on the plat. However, the Town
Board may by resolution accept any dedication made to the public of lands or
facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines, or other public purposes,
when the lands or facilities are located within its planning and development
regulation jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.008 THOROUGHFARE PLAN.
    Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a thoroughfare which has
been designated as such upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of the
town, the County Board of Commissioners or the State Department of
Transportation, such part of the thoroughfare plan shall be platted by the
subdivider in the location shown on the plan and at the width specified in this
chapter by the town and/or the State Department of Transportation, as
applicable.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.009 SCHOOL SITES ON LAND USE OR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
    If the Town Board and County Board of Education have jointly determined the
specified location and size of any school sites to be reserved and this
information appears in the land use plan update, the Subdivision Administrator
on behalf of the Town Board, shall immediately notify the Board of Education
whenever a sketch plan for a subdivision is submitted which includes all or
part of a school site to be reserved. The Board of Education shall promptly
decide whether it still wishes the site to be reserved. If the Board of
Education does not wish to reserve the site, it shall so notify the Town Board
and no site shall be reserved. If the Board of Education does wish to reserve
the site, the subdivision shall not be approved without such reservation. The
Board of Education shall then have 18 months beginning on the date of final
approval of the subdivision or site plan within which to acquire the site by
purchase or by initiating condemnation proceedings. If the Board of Education
has not purchased or begun proceedings to condemn the site within 18 months,
the landowner may treat the land as freed of the reservation.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.010 ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
    Similarly, proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance in effect in the area to be subdivided,
and any other officially adopted plans or ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.025 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)    No subdivision within the towns's planning and development regulation
jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been submitted to
and approved by the Town Board as herein provided, and until this approval
shall have been entered on the face of the plat in writing by the Mayor and the
Town Clerk. No person shall commence or proceed with a subdivision of land
without first securing approval under this chapter from the town.
   (B)   The Review Officer, pursuant to G.S. § 47-30.2, shall not certify a
subdivision plat that has not been approved in accordance with this chapter nor
shall the Clerk of superior court order or direct the recording of a plat if
the recording would be in conflict with this chapter.
   (C)   A plat shall be prepared, approved and recorded pursuant to this
chapter whenever a subdivision of land takes place.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.026 STATEMENT BY OWNER.
    The owner of land shown on a subdivision plat submitted for recording, or
his or her authorized agent, shall sign a statement on the plat stating whether
or not any land shown thereon is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction
of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.027 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
    Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-806, the approval of a plat shall not be deemed to
constitute the acceptance by the town or public of the dedication of any street
or other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat
and shall not be construed to do so. However, the town may by resolution accept
any dedication made to the public of lands or facilities for streets, parks,
public utility lines or other public purposes, when the lands or facilities are
located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction and meets the town's
requirements.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.028 VARIANCES.
   The Town Board may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in its
opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting any
variance, the Town Board shall make the findings required below, taking into
account the nature of the proposed subdivision, the existing use of land in the
vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision
and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in
the vicinity. When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the
strict letter of a requirement of this chapter, the Town Board shall vary the
requirement of this chapter upon a showing of all of the following:
   (A)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of the
requirement. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
   (B)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
   (C)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or the
property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
   (D)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (E)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that
the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
   (F)   In considering a variance, the Town Board shall follow the quasi-
judicial procedures outlined in § 152.074.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.029 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    Before adopting, amending, or repealing any provision of this
chapter, the Town Board shall hold a legislative hearing. A notice of the
hearing shall be given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town. The notice shall be published
the first time not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date
scheduled for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is
not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be included. If the
proposed adoption or modification would affect the permitted uses of land
located five miles or less from the perimeter of a military base, the town
shall provide written notice of the proposed changes by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the commander of the military base not less than ten days
nor more than 25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. The Town Board
shall take any comments or analysis provided by the commander regarding the
compatibility of the proposed regulation or amendment with military operations
at the base into account before making a final decision.
   (B)   No amendment to this chapter shall become effective unless it shall
have been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for
review and recommendations. The Planning Board shall have 30 days within which
to submit a report. If the Planning Board fails to submit a report within the
specified time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment. The Town
Board shall not hold its required hearing or take action until it has received
a recommendation regarding the regulation from the Planning Board or until the
30 days has elapsed without the Planning Board providing comment.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.030 ABROGATION.
    It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.031 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after adoption.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.032 ADMINISTRATOR.
    The holder of the Office of Town Administrator is hereby appointed to serve
as Subdivision Administrator. When used in this chapter, the term "Subdivision
Administrator" shall include his or her designees.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.033 NOTICE.
   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this chapter shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 152.045 PLAT SHALL BE REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
    Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-372, a final plat shall be prepared, approved and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter whenever any subdivision of
land takes place.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-372 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by S.L.
20203, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19,
2020
§ 152.046 APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
    Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-373, no final plat of a subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the town as established in §
152.005 of this chapter shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of the
county until it has been approved by the Town Board as provided herein. To
secure such approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow the
procedures established in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
Editor’s note:
   G.S. § 160A-373 was repealed by S.L. 2019-111, s. 2.3, as amended by S.L.
20203, s. 4.33(a), and S.L. 2020-25, s. 51(a), (b), (d), effective June 19,
2020
§ 152.047 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)    All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions except those
defined as minor subdivisions in this section. Major subdivisions shall be
reviewed in accordance with the procedures in §§
152.049 through
152.051. Minor subdivisions shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions
in §
152.048. However, if the subdivider owns, leases, holds an option on or holds
any legal or equitable interest in any property adjacent to or located directly
across a street, easement, road or right-of-way from the property to be
subdivided, the subdivision shall not qualify under the abbreviated procedure.
Furthermore, the abbreviated procedure may not be used a second time within
three years on any property less than 1,500 feet from the original property
boundaries by anyone who owned, had an option on or any legal interest in the
original subdivision at the time the subdivision received preliminary or final
plat approval.
   (B)   A minor subdivision is defined as one involving no new public or
private streets or roads, or right-of-way dedication, no easements, no utility
extension, where the entire tract to be subdivided is five or fewer lots after
the subdivision is completed. Minor subdivisions creating three lots or less
may follow an expedited process and receive approval from the Subdivision
Administrator at his or her discretion: approval as noted in §
152.048 of this chapter may also be required at the discretion of the
Subdivision Administrator.
   (C)   G.S. § 160D-802(c) subdivision. Only a plat for recordation may be
required for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if
all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under the
definition of subdivision contained in §
152.001.
      (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided under
this subsection in the ten years prior to division.
      (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five acres.
      (4)   After division, no more than three lots result from the division.
      (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
         (a)   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulation, if any.
         (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable zoning
requirements, if any.
         (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.048 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Sketch plan for minor subdivision.
      (1)   Prior to submission of a final plat, the subdivider shall submit to
the Subdivision Administrator three copies of a sketch plan of the proposed
subdivision containing the following information:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and waterways;
         (b)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
         (c)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the
subdivision and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
         (e)   The existing street layout and right-of-way width, lot layout
and size of lots;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
         (g)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
         (h)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
         (i)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent
properties;
         (j)   A statement from the County Health Director, or local public
utility, as appropriate, as to proposed water or sewerage systems; and
         (k)   The District Highway Engineer of the NCDOT as to proposed state
streets, state highways, and related drainage systems.
      (2)   The sketch plan shall be submitted at least 14 days prior to the
Planning Board meeting at which it will be reviewed. The Planning Board shall
review the sketch plan for general compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Zoning Ordinance; the Planning Board shall advise the
subdivider or his or her authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to the
proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and
submission of the final plat.
      (3)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained as a part of the
minutes of the Planning Board and one copy shall be returned to the subdivider
or his or her authorized agent.
   (B)   Final plat for minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Upon approval of the sketch plan by the Planning Board, the
subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the final plat in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat so marked, to the
Subdivision Administrator not less than 15 days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will be reviewed.
      (3)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Manual of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina.
      (4)   Five copies of the final plat shall be submitted, two of these
shall be on reproducible material; three shall be black or blue line paper
prints. Material and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance
with the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where
applicable, and the requirements of the County Register of Deeds.
      (5)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
      (6)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee
of $50 to cover administrative cost.
      (7)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
152.052 of this chapter.
      (8)   The following signed certificates shall appear on all five copies
of the final plat:
         (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
            I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and
described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town
of Richlands and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent and establish minimum building setback lines as noted.
_________________   _____________________________________
   Date            Owner
         (b)   Certificate of survey and accuracy. In accordance with the
Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, on the face of each
map prepared for recordation there shall appear a certificate acknowledged
before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments and executed by the person
making the survey or map including deeds and any recorded data shown thereon.
The certificate shall include a statement of error of closure calculated by
latitudes and departures. Any lines on the map which were not actually surveyed
must be clearly indicated on the map and a statement included in the
certificate revealing the source of information. The certificate shall take the
following general form:
            State of North Carolina      Onslow County
            I, _____________ , certify that this map was drawn by me (drawn
under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made
under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book _____ , Page _____ ,
Book _____ , Page _____ , etc.) (other); that the ratio of precision as
calculated by latitudes and departures is 1: _____________________ , (that the
boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from information
found in Book _____ , Page _____ ); that this map was prepared in accordance
with NCGS 47-30, as amended.
            Witness my hand and seal this __________ day of ___________ ,
20_____ .
            _________________________
            Registered Land Surveyor
            Official Seal
               Registration Number
            I (officer authorized to take acknowledgments) do hereby certify
that (name of registered surveyor) personally appeared before me this day and
acknowledged the due execution of this certificate. Witness my hand and (where
an official seal is required by law) official seal this the _________ day of
______ (year).
            _________________________
            Signature of Officer
            Official Seal
      (9)   The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its
next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least 15 days after the
Subdivision Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval,
conditional approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or
disapproval of the final plat with reasons within 45 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (10)   During its review of the final plat the Planning Board may appoint
an engineer or registered land surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final
plat or to provide comments on technical data. The costs shall be charged to
the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended for approval until such
engineering fees have been paid.
      (11)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat it
shall transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations to the
Town Board through the Subdivision Administrator.
      (12)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the final
plat with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall retain one
print of the plat for its minutes, return its written recommendation and two
reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider, and transmit one print of
the plat and its written recommendations to the Town Board through the
Subdivision Administrator.
      (13)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning re-submission of a revised plat and
the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and re-submit same for reconsideration by
the Planning Board, or appeal the decision to the Town Board.
      (14)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a written recommendation
within 45 days after its first review shall constitute grounds for the
subdivider to apply to the Town Board for approval.
      (15)   If the Planning Board recommends approval or conditional approval
with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or the subdivider appeals
to the Town Board, the Town Board shall review and approve or disapprove the
final plat within 45 days after the plat and recommendations of the Planning
Board have been received by the Subdivision Administrator. The Town Board shall
use quasi-judicial procedures, as provided by §
152.074 when hearing appeals.
      (16)   If the Town Board approves the final plat, such approval shall be
shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
         Certificate of Approval for Recording
         I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found
to comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Richlands, North
Carolina and that this plat has been approved by the Town Board for recording
in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow County.
         ________________________________________________
         Town Administrator, Town of Richlands, North Carolina
         ______________
         Date
      (17)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Town Board the reasons for
such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of this
chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy of such reasons and
one print of the plat shall be retained by the Town Board as part of its
proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three copies of the plat shall be
transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider
may make such changes as will bring the final plat into compliance and re-
submit same for reconsideration by the Planning Board and the Town Board or by
the Town Board as determined by the Town Board.
      (18)   If the final plat is approved by the Town Board, such approval
shall be noted in writing on the face of the plat and the plat shall be signed
by an authorized representative of the town. One print of the plat shall be
retained by the subdivider. One reproducible tracing and one print shall be
filed with the Town Clerk and one print shall be returned to the Planning Board
for its records.
      (19)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the
Register of Deeds of the county within 30 days of Town Board approval;
otherwise, such approval shall be null and void. One reproducible tracing as
recorded by the Register of Deeds shall be returned to the Town Clerk.
      (20)   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this section shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
      (21)   Any recommendation made by the Planning Board shall be deemed
administrative in nature. (Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 152.049 SKETCH PLAN FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Number of copies and contents. Prior to the preliminary plat
submission, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board two copies of a
sketch plan of the proposed subdivision (or three copies if the abbreviated
procedure is to be used) containing the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-of-
way width, lot layout and size of lots;
      (6)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed subdivision;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or plated properties;
      (9)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent properties;
      (10)   A statement from the County Health Director, or local public
utility, as appropriate, as to proposed water or sewerage systems; and
      (11)   The District Highway Engineer of the NCDOT as to proposed state
streets, state highways, and related drainage systems.
   (B)   Submission and review procedure.
      (1)   The sketch plan is a conceptual plan which shall indicate the
intentions of the subdivider with respect to all of the lands owned or
controlled by the subdivider.
      (2)   The sketch plan shall be submitted at least 14 days prior to the
Planning Board meeting at which it will be reviewed. The Planning Board shall
review the sketch plan for general compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Zoning Ordinance; the Planning Board shall advise the
subdivider or his or her authorized agent of the regulations pertaining to the
proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and
submission of the preliminary and final plats.
      (3)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained as a part of the
minutes of the Planning Board with the other copy being returned to the
subdivider or his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.050 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Submission procedure.
      (1)   For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction
established by §
152.048, which does not qualify for the abbreviated procedure, the subdivider
shall submit a preliminary plat which shall be reviewed by the Planning Board
and approved by the Planning Board before any construction or installation of
improvements may begin. (The "abbreviated procedure" is a reference to the
minor subdivision process. There is no other abbreviated process or procedure
available.)
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall be consistent in concept with the
previously submitted and approved sketch plan. The preliminary plat may
constitute a portion of the sketch plan.
      (3)   Twelve copies of the preliminary plat (as well as any additional
copies which the Subdivision Administrator determines are needed to be sent to
other agencies) shall be submitted to the administrator of this chapter at
least 20 days prior to the Planning Board meeting at which the subdivider
desires the Planning Board to review the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Preliminary plats shall contain the information items as outlined
in §
152.052. Subdivisions shall be constructed and/or improved as required in §§
152.065 through
152.072.
   (B)   Review by other agencies. After having received the preliminary plat
from the subdivider, the Subdivision Administrator shall submit copies of the
preliminary plat and any accompanying material to other officials and agencies
concerned with new development including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Technical Review Committee consisting of the Town Administrator and
appropriate town departmental heads and, if deemed appropriate, a professional
engineer or surveyor who shall confirm the accuracy of the preliminary plat and
shall provide comments on technical data. The costs shall be charged to the
subdivider;
      (2)   County Health Director, or local public utility, as appropriate, as
to proposed water or sewerage systems;
      (3)   County Board of Education;
      (4)   The District Highway Engineer of the NCDOT as to proposed state
streets, state highways, and related drainage systems;
      (5)   County Soil Conservation Service Office; and
      (6)   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Wilmington, North Carolina.
   (C)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall not approve the preliminary plat and final
plat of the same subdivision at the same meeting. The Planning Board shall
review the preliminary plat at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting
which follows at least 30 days after the Subdivision Administrator receives the
preliminary plat and the comments from the appropriate agencies.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall, in writing, recommend approval,
conditional approval with recommended changes to bring the plat into
compliance, or disapproval with reasons within 60 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (3)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the preliminary plat,
it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes and return one copy of the
plat to the subdivider.
      (4)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the
preliminary plat it shall keep one copy of the plat for its minutes and return
the remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
      (5)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the preliminary
plat, it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes and return one copy
of the plat and its recommendation to the subdivider.
      (6)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the
recommended changes and submit a revised preliminary plat or appeal the
decision to the Town Board.
      (7)   If the Planning Board does not make a written recommendation within
60 days after its first consideration of the plat, the subdivider may apply to
the Town Board for approval.
      (8)    Appeals of any decisions may be made in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.075 herein.
      (9)   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this section shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.051 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Board, the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of the final plat, and the installation of or
arrangement for required improvements in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat and the requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a
final plat, the subdivider shall have installed the improvements specified in
this chapter or guaranteed their installation as provided herein. No final plat
will be accepted for review by the Planning Board or the Town Board unless
accompanied by written notice by the Town Clerk acknowledging compliance with
the improvement and guarantee standards of this chapter. The final plat shall
constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider
proposes to record and develop at that time; such portion shall conform to all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Guarantees of improvements.
      (1)   Final plats of a subdivision shall be approved by the Town Board
after the subdivider has installed all required improvements in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter or provided a performance guarantee in
accordance with division (2) below.
      (2)   Performance guarantees. Final plats of a subdivision shall be
approved by the Town Board upon posting of a performance guarantee to assure
successful completion of required improvements.
For purposes of this section, all of the following apply with respect to
performance guarantees:
         (a)   Type. The type of performance guarantee shall be at the election
of the developer. The term PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE means any of the following
forms of guarantee:
            1.   Surety bond issued by any company authorized to do business in
this state.
            2.   Letter of credit issued by any financial institution licensed
to do business in this state.
            3.   Other form of guarantee that provides equivalent security to a
surety bond or letter of credit.
         (b)   Duration. The duration of the performance guarantee shall
initially be one year, unless the developer determines that the scope of work
for the required improvements necessitates a longer duration. In the case of a
bonded obligation, the completion date shall be set one year from the date the
bond is issued, unless the developer determines that the scope of work for the
required improvements necessitates a longer duration.
         (c)   Extension. A developer shall demonstrate reasonable, good-faith
progress toward completion of the required improvements that are secured by the
performance guarantee or any extension. If the improvements are not completed
to the specifications of the town, and the current performance guarantee is
likely to expire prior to completion of the required improvements, the
performance guarantee shall be extended, or a new performance guarantee issued,
for an additional period. An extension under this subdivision shall only be for
a duration necessary to complete the required improvements. If a new
performance guarantee is issued, the amount shall be determined by the
procedure provided in division (E) of this section and shall include the total
cost of all incomplete improvements.
         (d)   Release. The performance guarantee shall be returned or
released, as appropriate, in a timely manner upon the acknowledgment by the
town that the improvements for which the performance guarantee is being
required are complete. The town shall return letters of credit or escrowed
funds upon completion of the required improvements to its specifications or
upon acceptance of the required improvements, if the required improvements are
subject to town acceptance. When required improvements that are secured by a
bond are completed to the specifications of the town, or are accepted by the
town, if subject to its acceptance, upon request by the developer, the town
shall timely provide written acknowledgment that the required improvements have
been completed.
         (e)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee shall not exceed
125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion at the time the performance
guarantee is issued. The town may determine the amount of the performance
guarantee or use a cost estimate determined by the developer. The reasonably
estimated cost of completion shall include 100% of the costs for labor and
materials necessary for completion of the required improvements. Where
applicable, the costs shall be based on unit pricing. The additional 25%
allowed under this subdivision includes inflation and all costs of
administration regardless of how such fees or charges are denominated. The
amount of any extension of any performance guarantee shall be determined
according to the procedures for determining the initial guarantee and shall not
exceed 125% of the reasonably estimated cost of completion of the remaining
incomplete improvements still outstanding at the time the extension is
obtained.
         (f)   Timing. A performance guarantee required under this section
shall be posted at the time the plat is recorded.
         (g)   Coverage. The performance guarantee shall only be used for
completion of the required improvements and not for repairs or maintenance
after completion.
         (h)   Legal responsibilities. No person shall have or may claim any
rights under or to any performance guarantee provided pursuant to this section
or in the proceeds of any such performance guarantee other than the following:
            1.   The town;
            2.   The developer at whose request or for whose benefit the
performance guarantee is give;
            3.   The person or entity issuing or providing the performance
guarantee at the request of or for the benefit of the developer.
         (i)   Multiple guarantees. The developer shall have the option to post
one type of a performance guarantee as provided for in division (A) of this
section, in lieu of multiple bonds, letters of credit, or other equivalent
security, for all development matters related to the same project requiring
performance guarantees.
         (j)   Performance guarantees associated with erosion control and storm
water control measures are not subject to the provision of this section.
   (C)   Submission procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the
Subdivision Administrator not less than 30 days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will be reviewed; further, the final plat for the first
stage of the subdivision shall be submitted not more than 12 months after the
date on which the preliminary plat was approved; otherwise such approval shall
be null and void, unless a written extension of this limit is granted by the
Town Board on or before the 12-month anniversary of the approval.
      (2)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Manual of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina.
      (3)   Ten copies of the final plat shall be submitted; two of these shall
be on reproducible material; eight shall be black or blue line paper prints.
Material and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance with the
Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where applicable, and
the requirements of the County Register of Deeds.
      (4)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
      (5)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by the required
filing fee to cover administrative costs.
      (6)   The final plat shall contain the information items as outlined in §
152.052. Subdivisions shall be constructed and/or improved as required in §§
152.065 through
152.072.
      (7)   The following signed certificates shall appear on all ten copies of
the final plat:
         (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
            I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and
described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town
of Richlands and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets,
alleys, walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or private use as
noted.
            __________      ______________________________
            Date         Owner(s)
         (b)   Certificate of survey and accuracy. In accordance with the
Manual of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, on the face of each
map prepared for recordation there shall appear a certificate acknowledged
before an officer authorized to take acknowledgments and executed by the person
making the survey or map including deeds and any recorded data shown thereon.
The certificate shall include a statement of error of closure calculated by
latitudes and departures. Any lines on the map which were not actually surveyed
must be clearly indicated on the map and a statement included in the
certificate revealing the source of information. The certificate shall take the
following general form:
            State of North Carolina      Onslow County
            I, ___________________ , certify that this map was (drawn by me)
(drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book _____ ,
Page _____ , Book _____ , Page _____ , etc.) (other); that the ratio of
precision as calculated by latitudes and departure is 1: ________________ (that
the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from information
found in Book _____ , Page _____ ): that this map was prepared in accordance
with NCGS 47-30, as amended.
            Witness my hand and seal this _____ day of ___________ , 20 _____ .
            ________________________________
            Registered Land Surveyor
            Official Seal
               Registration Number
            I, (officer authorized to take acknowledgments) do hereby certify
that (name of registered surveyor) personally appeared before me this day and
acknowledged the execution of this certificate. Witness may hand and (where an
official seal is required by law) official seal this the _____ day of _____
(year).
            ________________________________
            Signature of Officer
            Official Seal
         (c)   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of
streets, utilities and other required improvements.
            I hereby certify that all streets, utilities and other required
improvements have been installed in a manner approved by the appropriate state
or local authority and according to Town specifications and standards in the
________________ Subdivision or that guarantees of the installation of the
required improvements in an amount and manner satisfactory to the Town of
Richlands has been received, and that the required filing fee for this plat has
been paid.
            ________________________________
            Subdivision Administrator
            ________________________________
            Engineer
            _______________________
            Date
      (8)   The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its
next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least 30 days after the
Subdivision Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval,
conditional approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or
disapproval of the final plat with reasons within 45 days of its first
consideration of the plat.
      (9)   During its review of the final plat the Planning Board may appoint
an engineer or a registered land surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final
plat or to provide comments on technical data. The costs shall be charged to
the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended for approval until such
fees have been paid.
      (10)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat it
shall transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations to the
Town Board through the Subdivision Administrator.
      (11)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the final
plat with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall retain one
print of the plat for its minutes, return its written recommendations and two
reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider, and transmit one print of
the plat and its written recommendation to the Town Board through the
Subdivision Administrator.
      (12)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning re-submission of a revised plat and
the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, and re-submit same for reconsideration by
the Planning Board, or appeal the decision to the Town Board.
      (13)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a written recommendation
within 60 days shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to apply to the Town
Board for approval.
      (14)   If the Planning Board recommends approval or conditional approval
with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or the subdivider appeals
to the Town Board, the Town Board shall review and approve or disapprove the
final plat within 45 days after the plat and recommendations of the Planning
Board have been received by the Subdivision Administrator. The Town Board shall
use quasi-judicial procedures, as provided by §
152.074 when hearing appeals.
      (15)   If the Town Board approves the final plat, such approval shall be
shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
         Certificate of Approval for Recording
         I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found
to comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Richlands, North
Carolina, and that this plat has been approved by the Town Board for recording
in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Onslow County.
         _______________________________________________
         Town Administrator, Town of Richlands, North Carolina
         ___________________
         Date
      (16)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Town Board, the reasons
for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of
this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy of such
reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Town Board as part
of its proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three copies of the plat shall
be transmitted to the subdivider and in accordance with division (19) below. If
the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make such changes as will
bring the final plat into compliance and re-submit same for reconsideration by
the Planning Board and the Town Board or by the Town Board as determined by the
Town Board.
      (17)   If the final plat is approved by the Town Board, the approval
shall be entered on the face of the plat in writing, by an authorized
representative of the town. One print of the plat shall be retained by the
subdivider. One reproducible tracing and one print shall be filed with the Town
Clerk, and one print shall be retained by the Planning Board for its records.
      (18)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the
Register of Deeds of the county within 30 days of Town Board approval;
otherwise, such approval shall be null and void. One reproducible tracing as
recorded by the Register of Deeds shall be returned to the Town Clerk.
      (19)   The approvals and disapprovals set forth in this section shall be
communicated by the officer making the determination who shall in turn give
written notice to the owner of the property that is the subject of the
determination and to the party who sought the determination, if different from
the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application or request for a
determination if the party seeking the determination is different from the
owner.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.052 INFORMATION TO BE CONTAINED IN OR DEPICTED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL
PLAT.
   The preliminary and final plats shall depict or contain the information
indicated in the following table. An “x” indicates that the information is
required.
Information Preliminary Plat Final Plat
Information                                                                     Preliminary Final
                                                                                Plat        Plat
A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed subdivision x           x
and surrounding area
Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the subdivision tract x           x
Date of plat preparation                                                        x           x
Existing buildings or other structures, watercourses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately  x           x
adjoining
Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining          x           x
properties
Minimum building setback lines                                                  x           x
North arrow and orientation                                                     x           x
Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate dimensions           x           x
The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided, distinctly and x           x
accurately represented with all bearings and distances shown
The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining              x
lands
The exact location of the flood hazard zone from the community’s Flood        x           x
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM)
The lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision                                  x
The name of the subdivider                                                      x           x
The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners, mortgagees,
registered land surveyors, land planners, architects and professional engineers x           x
responsible for the subdivision
The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under review  x           x
The names of owners of adjoining properties                                     x           x
The registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers                x           x
The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining                      x
properties
Title block containing
   -A bar graph                                                              x           x
   -A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures           x           x
   -Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared                     x           x
   -Location (including township, county and state)                          x           x
   -Name, address, registration number and seal of the registered land surveyxr          x
   -Name of owner                                                            x           x
   -Property designation                                                     x           x
Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or stream x           x
beds and any other natural features affecting the site
The following data concerning streets:
Approximate grades4                                                             x           x
Design engineering data for all corners and curves                              x           x
Driveway approval as required by the State Department of Transportation,                    x
Division of Highways’ Manual on Driveway Regulations
Evidence that the subdivider has obtained driveway approval                                 x
Existing and plated streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed         x           x
subdivision
If any street is proposed to intersect with a state maintained road, the
subdivider shall apply for the appropriate clearances and approvals from the NC x           x
DOT
Pavement widths3                                                                x           x
Proposed streets                                                                x           x
Rights-of-way, locations and dimensions2                                        x           x
Street maintenance agreement in accordance with §                                          x
152.069 of this chapter
Street names                                                                    x           x
Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated either “public” orx           x
“private”
Typical street cross-sections                                                   x           x
Where streets are dedicated to the public, but not accepted into a municipal or
state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of the     x           x
street in accordance with §
152.069 of this chapter
The location and dimensions of all:
Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use                             x           x
Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of each   x           x
stated
Conservation easements                                                          x           x
Natural buffers                                                                 x           x
Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated                         x           x
Pedestrian or bicycle paths                                                     x           x
Riding trails                                                                   x           x
School sites                                                                    x           x
The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to governmental
body, for owners to duly constituted homeowners’ association, or for tenants  x           x
remaining in subdivider’s ownership) of recreation and open space lands
Utility and other easements                                                                 x
The plans for utility layouts including:
Electric lines                                                                  x           x
Natural gas lines                                                               x           x
Other drainage facilities (if any)                                              x           x
Plans for individual water supply and septic tank systems, if any               x           x
Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers and storm sewers               x
Public or private sanitary sewers                                               x           x
Storm sewers                                                                    x           x
Telephone lines                                                                 x           x
Water distribution lines illustrating connections to existing systems, showing
line sizes, the location of fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, force mains and x           x
gate valves
Site calculations including:
A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants. Such             x           x
restrictions are mandatory when private recreation areas are established
A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the Land Quality Section, DENR, x           x
Wilmington Regional Office. Required 30 days before land disturbance
Acreage in parks and recreation areas and other non-residential uses            x           x
Acreage in total tract to be subdivided                                         x           x
Acreage of the smallest lot in the subdivision                                              x
All certifications required in this chapter                                     x           x
Any other information considered by either the subdivider, the Planning Board   x           x
or the Town Board to be pertinent to the review of the plat
Linear feet in streets                                                                      x
May require a financial statement of the developer’s capability to perform and
accomplish improvements indicated on preliminary plat. Statement to be                      x
submitted to Town Clerk and kept confidential
Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right-of-way line,
easement line and setback line, including dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for the centerline of curved             x
property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets. All dimensions
shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and all angles to the
nearest minute
The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control               x
points
The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.       x           x
Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places
Topographic map with contour intervals of no greater than 1 foot at a scale of  x           x
no less than 1 inch equals 200
Total number of parcels created                                                 x           x
Waters classified by the Division of Water Quality, DENR                        x           x
NOTES TO TABLE:

2 The subdivider must submit all street plans to the Town Clerk for approval as a part of the
preliminary plat approval process.) Where public streets are involved which will not be dedicated
to a municipality, the subdivider must submit the following documents to the State Department of
Transportation District Highway Engineer for review: a complete site layout, including any future
expansion anticipated horizontal alignment indicating general curve data on site layout plan;
vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, PI station and vertical curve length on site plan
layout; (the District Engineer may require the plotting of the ground profile and grade line for
roads where special conditions or problems exist); typical section indicating the pavement design
and width and the slopes, widths and details for either the curb and gutter or the shoulder and
ditch proposed; drainage facilities and drainage areas.

3 Ibid.

4 Ibid.
 
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.053 RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   (A)    Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner at any
time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to
which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved
the final plat. The Town Board may reject any such instrument which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys.
   (C)   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and
recorded and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded
or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A) and (C) above by all owners of the lots in such plat
joining in the execution of such writing.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.054 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
    For any replatting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS, DEDICATIONS, RESERVATION; MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 152.065 GENERAL.
    Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing is
specifically stated in this chapter. Land shall be dedicated and reserved in
each Subdivision as specified in this subchapter. Each subdivision shall adhere
to the minimum standards of design established by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.066 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   (1)    The burden of proof that lots and acreage are suitable for
development shall rest with the subdivider. A subdivision plat may be
disapproved if the Planning Board determines that insufficient or inadequate
data is submitted by the subdivider.
      (2)   Land which has been determined by the Planning Board, on the basis
of engineering or other expert surveys, to pose an ascertainable danger to life
or property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be
platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct said conditions and to eliminate said dangers.
      (3)   The Planning Board shall use all available resources to ascertain
the suitability of lots and acreage for development including, but not limited
to, soils for use of septic tanks and drainage characteristics. Expenses
created in documenting this data shall be the responsibility of the developer.
Fees incurred shall be paid prior to final plat approval.
      (4)   Lots and acreage determined by the Planning Board to be unsuitable
for development shall be so indicated on the final plat and shall not be made
available for sale to the public by the subdivider. Such lots and acreage shall
not be developed for inhabitable buildings or structures but may be used
otherwise for the public or community benefit.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural engineer
and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.067 NAME DUPLICATION.
    The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within the county. The name of streets shall
not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of any existing street within
the county.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.068 SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements; needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; and
limitations and opportunities of topography.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet or more than 1,800 feet.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth, except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in non-residential subdivisions or where abutting a water area.
      (4)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as a park or school, or to areas such as
shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
      (5)   Block numbers shall conform to the town street numbering system, if
applicable.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. It
is not sufficient merely for the average lot to meet zoning requirements.
      (2)   Lots shall meet any applicable County Health Department
requirements.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to radial to
street lines.
      (5)   To promote energy conservation, lots in the subdivision shall, to
the extent possible in light of topographic and other considerations, face
streets which run in an east-west direction, to provide greater opportunity for
south orientation of windows in buildings. In manufactured home subdivisions,
if units will be sited with the long axis perpendicular to the street, lots
shall, to the extent possible, face streets which run in a north-south
direction.
   (C)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements for underground or above ground
utilities shall be provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear
or side lot lines and shall be at least 20 feet wide for water and sanitary
sewer lines and as required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and
power lines. The Planning Board will determine whether one easement is
sufficient or whether several easements are necessary to accommodate the
various facilities and the subdivider shall provide the required easements.
Provided, however, no developer or builder shall be required to bury power
lines meeting all of the following criteria: (a) the power lines existed above
ground at the time of first approval of a plat or development plan by the town,
whether or not the power lines are subsequently relocated during construction
of the subdivision or development plan, and (b) the power lines are located
outside the boundaries of the parcel of land that contains the subdivision or
the property covered by the development plan.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainage way, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of such
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose. Provisions
for the future maintenance and upkeep of all drainage easements shall be
approved by the Planning Board prior to plat approval and such provisions shall
be included with the final plat.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.069 STREETS.
   (A)   Type of streets required. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public
or private street. (See division (W) below.) All public streets shall be
dedicated to the town, the state or the public as determined appropriately by
the Planning Board. Streets dedicated to the town shall be accepted by
resolution of the Town Board. All public streets shall be built to the
standards of this chapter and all other applicable standards of the town and
the State Department of Transportation. Public streets shall be constructed to
the standards necessary to be put on the state highway system or the standards
in this chapter, whichever is stricter in regard to each particular item, and
shall be put on such system. Streets which are not dedicated to the town which
are not eligible to be put on the state highway system because there are too
few lots or residences shall, nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and
shall be in accordance with the standards in this chapter or standards
necessary to be put on the state highway system, whichever is stricter in
regard to each particular item, so as to be eligible to be put on the system at
a later date. A written maintenance agreement with provisions for maintenance
of the street until it is put on the state system shall be included with the
final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a
municipal or state system, before lots are sold, a statement explaining the
status of the street shall be included with the final plat. The provisions
outlined in §
152.049 will apply.
   (C)   Half-streets. The dedication of half-streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impracticable, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where there
exists a half-street in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
60 feet of right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of-way, not less
than 60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is
owned or controlled by the subdivider; provided that, the width of the partial
dedication is such as to permit the installation of such facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of-way shall be dedicated.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide
a marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (E)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is necessary to provide for access to an adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property and a
temporary turnaround provided.
   (F)   Non-residential streets. The subdivider of a non-residential
subdivision shall provide streets in accordance with the standards contained in
the most current edition of the North Carolina Roads, Minimum Construction
Standards booklet; and the standards in this chapter, whichever are stricter in
regard to each particular item.
   (G)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies
of the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as taken or
modified from the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO)
manuals. The most current edition of the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways, Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards, shall
apply for any items not included in this chapter, or where stricter than this
chapter.
   (H)   Right-of-way widths. Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the
following and shall apply, except in those cases where right-of-way
requirements have been specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan.
 
Streets                                   Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Cul-de-sac                                Variable**
Local street                              50*
Major thoroughfare other than freeway and 80
expressway
Minor thoroughfare                        60*
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Curb, gutter and sidewalk will be required on all minor
thoroughfares, local streets and cul-de-sacs.
**The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of 100
feet of right-of-way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is
desired, the subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount
in excess of 100 feet. In all cases in which right-of-way is sought
for an access controlled facility, the subdivider will only be
required to make a reservation.
 
   (I)   Street paving widths. Paving widths for street and road
classifications shall be as required by the mutually adopted thoroughfare plan
where applicable and according to the minimum standards adopted by the State
Department of Transportation.
   (J)   Minimum sight distances. In the interest of public safety, no less
than the minimum sight distance applicable (for roads), according to the State
Department of Transportation, shall be provided in every instance.
   (K)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at an angle less
than 60 degrees.
      (2)   Property lines at intersections should be set so that the distance
from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property line will be
at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to the property
line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be established as a
radius or as a sight triangle. Greater off-sets from the edge of pavement to
the property line will be required, if necessary, to provide sight distance for
the vehicle on the side street.
      (3)   Off-set intersections are to be avoided unless exception is granted
by the Division of Highways. Intersections which cannot be aligned should be
separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
      (4)   Intersections with arterials, collector and thoroughfares shall be
at least 1,000 feet from centerline to centerline, or more if required by the
State Department of Transportation.
   (L)   Cul-de-sacs. Permanent dead end streets should not exceed 500 feet in
length unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility and in no
case shall be permitted to be over 900 feet. Measurements shall be from the
point where the centerline of the dead end street intersects with the center of
the turnaround of the cul-de-sac. Where one cul-de-sac intersects with another
cul-de-sac, the end of each cul-de-sac shall be no more than 500 to 900 feet
from a through street, measured as stated above. The distance from the edge of
pavement on the vehicular turnaround to the right-of-way line shall not be less
than the distance from the edge of pavement to right-of-way line on the street
approaching the turnaround. Cul-de-sacs should not be used avoid connection
with an existing street or to avoid the extension of an important street,
unless exception is granted by the Planning Board.
   (M)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes; except that this requirement may be waived where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access. Alleys shall not be
provided in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual
circumstances.
      (2)   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
      (3)   Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead
end as may be approved by the Planning Board.
      (4)   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
      (5)   All alleys shall be designed in accordance with State Department of
Transportation Standards.
   (N)   Other requirements. Through traffic is discouraged on residential
collector and local streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be
laid out in such a way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
Streets shall be designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to
parks, playgrounds, schools or other places of public assembly.
   (O)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks will be required by the Planning Board on one or
both sides of the street for minor subdivisions in areas likely to be subject
to heavy pedestrian traffic such as near schools and shopping areas. Sidewalks
will be required on both sides of the street in major subdivisions. Such
sidewalks shall be constructed to a minimum width of four feet, and shall
consist of a minimum thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks shall
be placed in the right-of-way, unless the development is platted as a planned
unit or group development. Sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six inches
of concrete at driveway crossings. Sidewalks will be required in major
subdivisions. In minor subdivisions, sidewalks may be required.
   (P)   Curb and gutter. In a minor subdivision curb and gutter may be
required. Curb and gutter will be required on all local streets in major
subdivisions. Curb and gutter will be required on all streets to be taken over
by the town.
   (Q)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the county
irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place, court
and the like. Street names shall be subject to approval of the Planning Board.
   (R)   Street name and traffic-control signs. The subdivider shall be
required to provide and erect street name and traffic- control signs to town
standards at all appropriate locations within the subdivision.
   (S)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is required
for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is required prior
to any construction on the street or road. The application is available at the
office of the nearest District Engineer of the Division of Highways.
   (T)   Off-sets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, preferably a minimum of at least 30 feet
from the edge of pavement on major thoroughfares. On streets with curb and
gutter, utility poles should be set back a minimum distance of six feet from
the face of curb.
   (U)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. Ch. 136, Art. 2A, § 136-
44.14, all street curbs in the state being constructed or reconstructed for
maintenance procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities or
altered for any reason, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the physically
handicapped at all intersections where both curb and gutter and sidewalks are
provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
   (V)   Horizontal width on bridge deck.
      (1)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges serving
two-lane, two-way traffic shall be as follows.
         (a)   Shoulder section approach.
            1.   Under 800 ADT design year. Minimum 28 feet width face-to-face
of parapets or rails or pavement width plus ten feet, whichever is greater;
            2.   Eight hundred to 2,000 ADT design year. Minimum 34 feet width
face-to-face of parapets or rails or pavement width, plus 12 feet, whichever is
greater; and
            3.   Over 2,000 ADT design year. Minimum 40 feet. Desirable 44 feet
width face-to-face of parapets or rails.
         (b)   Curbs and gutter approach.
            1.   Under 800 ADT design year. Minimum; and
            2.   Over 800 ADT design year. Width of approach pavement measured
face-to-face of curbs. Where curb and gutter sections are used on roadway
approaches, curbs on bridges shall match the curbs on approaches in height, in
width of face-to-face curbs, and in crown drop. The distance from face to curb
to face of parapet or rail shall be one feet, six inches minimum, or greater if
sidewalks are required.
      (2)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges having
four or more lanes serving undivided two-way traffic shall be as follows:
         (a)   Shoulder section approach. Width of approach pavement plus width
of usable shoulders on the approach left and right. Minimum: eight feet; des.
ten feet; and
         (b)   Curb and gutter approach. Width of approach pavement measured
face-to-face of curbs.
   (W)   Private streets. Private streets must be built to the standards of
this chapter or the state highway system standards, whichever is stricter. All
construction and maintenance responsibilities for private streets must be
assigned to a homeowners' association established in accordance with the State
Unit Ownership Act. The town shall not in any way be responsible for the
maintenance of these streets.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2008-02, passed - -2008; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
§ 152.070 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sanitary sewer system. All lots in subdivisions not
connected to the town or the county water system and/or any sewer system must
have a suitable source of water supply and sanitary sewage disposal, which
complies with the regulations of the appropriate permitting agency. Lots
connected to private utility systems shall submit evidence authorizing the
connection from the permitting agency.
   (B)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system as it relates to streets and constructed to the standards
of the State Department of Transportation, as reflected in the Handbook for the
Design of Highway Surface Drainage Structures (1973), subject to review by the
town's consulting engineer.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing surface
water drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing surface water drainage system cannot feasibly be
extended to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to
protect the proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three
feet of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance, and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding,
and designed to comply with the standards and specifications for erosion
control of the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A, Art.
4, and the State Administrative Code Title 15, Ch. 4, and any locally adopted
erosion and sedimentation control ordinances.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A,
Art. 4, and the State Administrative Code Title 15, Ch. 4.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the State Dam Safety Law of 1967 and the State Administrative
Code Title 15, Subch. 2K.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage. Storm
water drainage as it relates to runoff shall be controlled on site without the
benefit of engineered systems which require intensive maintenance by the
property owner. Consequently, the maximum lot coverage as provided for in the
Town's Zoning Ordinance shall be adhered to in order to contain storm water
runoff.
      (9)   When there is a natural stream traversing property subject to this
chapter and beavers and/or animals which may cause a problem (flooding) are
present, the developer shall take whatever measures necessary to eliminate the
animals in accordance with the law. Once every effort has been expended to
eliminate the problem, the town will thereafter assume responsibility for
problems created by indigenous wildlife.
   (C)   Street lights. All subdivisions in which the size of the smallest lot
is less than 10,000 square feet shall have street lights installed throughout
the subdivision in accordance with the standards approved by the Planning
Board. The developer shall be required to pay to the electric company the cost
of street lighting installation that exceeds four times the continuing annual
revenue. If underground wiring of street lighting is requested by the developer
or the town the developer may be required to install all fixed items such as
conduit, pads, manholes and pole foundations; the Town will own and maintain
the said fixed items.
   (D)   Underground wiring.
      (1)   All subdivisions in which the smallest lot is less than 40,000
square feet shall have underground wiring. This requirement may be waived by
the Planning Board if underlying rock is less than four feet from surface, in
areas where soils have a high water table, or if there is extensive preexisting
overhead wiring on the street in the immediate neighborhood of the subdivision.
Such underground wiring shall be installed in accordance with the standards of
Carolina Power and Light Company.
      (2)   The subdivider shall be required to pay the charges for
installation of the underground service, which charges will be made in
accordance with then effective underground electric service plan as filed with
the State Utilities Commission.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no developer or builder shall be
required to bury power lines meeting all of the following criteria: (a) the
power lines existed above ground at the time of first approval of a plat or
development plan by the town, whether or not the power lines are subsequently
relocated during construction of the subdivision or development plan, and (b)
the power lines are located outside the boundaries of the parcel of land that
contains the subdivision or the property covered by the development plan.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.071 BUFFERING, RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Buffering. Whenever a residential subdivision is located adjacent to
an office, institutional, commercial or industrial use which does not have a
buffer, or property zoned for these uses, and a buffer is not required between
these and the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide a buffer as determined
by the Planning Board. The width of the buffer shall be in addition to the lot
area required by the Zoning Ordinance. The buffer shall become part of the lot
on which it is located, or in the case of commonly owned property, shall be
deeded to the homeowners' association.
   (B)   Recreation and open space.
      (1)   Every person or corporation who subdivides land for residential
purposes shall be required to dedicate a portion of such land, as set forth in
this chapter for the purposes of park, recreation and open space sites to serve
the residents of the subdivision. The amount of land required to be dedicated
by a subdivider shall be based on a formula. The actual amount of land to be
dedicated shall be determined as follows: the minimum amount of land that shall
be dedicated for recreation, parks or open space in all subdivisions shall be
one-half acre for each subdivision or 20% of the gross acreage, whichever is
greatest. No more than 40% of the open space may be wetlands.
      (2)   No parcels containing less than one-half acre shall be accepted.
      (3)   All land so dedicated shall have at least 20 feet of access upon a
public street or walkway, and the size, shape, topography and subsoils of the
dedicated land shall be such as to be usable for active recreation.
   (C)   Suitability of land. Criteria for evaluating suitability of proposed
recreation, parks and open space areas shall include, but not be limited to,
the following as determined by the Planning Board; in consultation with Town
Recreation Advisory Board:
      (1)   Unity. The dedicated land shall be a single parcel, except where it
is determined that two or more parcels would be in the public interest. The
Planning Board may require that parcels be connected, and may require the
dedication of a connecting path of up to 60 feet, and in no case less than 30
feet in width in addition to the land required in division (B) above.
      (2)   Location. The dedicated land shall be located so as to serve the
recreation needs of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision.
      (3)   Accessibility. Public access to the dedicated land shall be
provided either by an abutting street or public easement. Such easement may be
required to be up to 60 feet in width and shall in no case be less than 30 feet
in width.
      (4)   Usability. The dedicated land shall be usable for active recreation
(play areas, ballfields, tennis courts or similar recreation uses). Lakes may
not be included in computing amount of land to be dedicated unless acceptable
to the Planning Board. If the Planning Board determines that active recreation
needs are being met by other dedicated parcels or existing recreation
facilities, then land that is suitable for open space may be dedicated.
      (5)   Adjustments. The Town Board may, in cases of unusual or exceptional
nature allow variances in the dedication requirements established in or
required by this chapter in accordance with § 152.028. Such proposed variances
shall be reviewed by the Planning Board before action by the Town Board.
      (6)   Preservation. Conservation and historic preservation easements
shall comply with G.S. §§ 121-34 through 121-42. All facilities and
improvements and open spaces which the owner makes an offer of dedication to
public use shall be maintained by the owner until such offer of dedication is
accepted by the appropriate public authority.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01,
passed 2-20-2024)
§ 152.072 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Placement of monuments. Unless otherwise specified by this chapter,
the Manual of Practice for Land Surveying, as adopted by the State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the
provisions of State Administrative Code Title 21, Ch. 56 (21 NCAC 56), shall
apply when conducting surveys for subdivisions; to determine the accuracy for
surveys and placement of monuments, control corners, markers and property
corner ties; to determine the location, design and material of monuments,
markers, control corners and property corner ties; and to determine other
standards and procedures governing the practice of land surveying for
subdivisions.
   (B)   Construction procedures.
      (1)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved, and all
plans and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
      (2)   No building, zoning or other permits shall be issued for erection
of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met. The subdivider, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
administrator of this chapter to provide for adequate inspection in accordance
with § 152.999(F) herein. The approving authorities having jurisdiction or
their representatives shall inspect and approve all completed work prior to
release of the sureties.
   (C)   Oversized improvements. The town may require installation of certain
oversized utilities or the extension of utilities to adjacent property when it
is in the interest of future development. If the town requires the installation
of improvements in excess of the standards required in this chapter, including
all standards adopted by reference, the town shall pay the cost differential
between the improvement required and the standards in this chapter. The town
may recoup this cost through acreage fees as set forth in the appropriate town
ordinance.
   (D)   Planned unit development or planned residential development. Planned
unit development or planned residential development shall meet the requirements
in Art. III, L, of the Town's Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.073 PLANNING BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning Board is established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-301. The
Planning Board shall consist of seven members. Five members will be appointed
by the Board of Aldermen and two members representing the extraterritorial
jurisdiction will be appointed by the Onslow County Board of Commissioners. All
appointments to the Planning Board shall be made by the Town Board. The Town
Board may establish reasonable procedures to solicit, review, and make
appointments.
   (B)   All meetings and hearings of the Planning Board shall be held at a
regular place and shall be open to the public and shall be conducted in
accordance with the rules of procedure of the Planning Board.
   (C)   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this may
be adopted by the Town Board for the Planning Board. In the absence of action
by the Town Board, the Planning Board is authorized to adopt its own rules of
procedure that are consistent with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D. A copy of
any adopted rules of procedure shall be maintained by the Clerk to the Town
Board and shall be posted on the town's website.
   (D)   Meetings of the Planning Board shall be held pursuant to a schedule
adopted pursuant to law. Special or emergency meetings of the Planning Board
may be held in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 143. All meetings
shall be open to the public.
   (E)   The Planning Board shall keep permanent minutes of all proceedings.
The minutes shall record attendance of its members, its resolutions, findings,
recommendations, and final actions.
   (F)   The minutes of the Planning Board shall be public record.
   (G)   All members appointed to the Planning Board under this chapter shall,
before entering their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as required
by G.S. § 160A-61.
   (H)   The Planning Board shall also be subject to the provisions of §§
153.305 through
153.308.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.074 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Process required. The Town Board shall follow quasi-judicial
procedures as directed in this chapter, and in any event in determining appeals
of administrative decisions and variances. As used in this section, “board”
shall be construed to mean the Town Board.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to this section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by this chapter. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
the town may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least
ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within
that same time period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The Town Board may continue an evidentiary hearing
that has been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing
is set for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the
hearing shall be continued until the next regular meeting of the Board without
further advertisement.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The Subdivision Administrator shall transmit
to the Town Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to
the matter being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to
the members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant
and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant. The
administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The
administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic form.
Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made
before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by
the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the town, and any person who
would have standing to appeal the decision shall have the right to participate
as a party at the evidentiary hearing. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
   (E)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board. The Board Chair shall rule on
any objections, and the Chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board.
These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
Objections based on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on
judicial review.
   (F)   Appearance of official new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a
witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in
a notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall
continue the hearing.
   (G)   Oaths. The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the
Clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Subpoenas. The board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
section through the Chair or, in the Chair's absence, anyone acting as Chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing
may make a written request to the chair explaining why it is necessary for
certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The Chair shall issue requested
subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope,
and not oppressive. The Chair shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a
subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chair may be immediately
appealed to the full board. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this section, the Board or the party seeking the subpoena
may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that its
subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders
after notice to all proper parties.
   (I)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Town Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
under §
152.076 herein shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of
the requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take
the place of such members.
   (J)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
Board and signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
clerk to the Board. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the town that proper notice has
been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.075 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   Appeals. Appeals of decisions made by staff or recommendations of the
Planning Board shall be made to the Town Board. Appeals shall be heard using
the quasi-judicial processes set forth below.
   (B)   Standing. Any person who has standing or the town may appeal an
administrative decision. An appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with
the Clerk to the Town Board. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for
the appeal.
   (C)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party shall have 30 days from
receipt of the written notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from
receipt from any source of actual or constructive notice of the determination
within which to file an appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
notice given by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third business
day following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service.
   (D)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall transmit
to the relevant board all documents and exhibits constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide a
copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is
the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
   (E)   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
unless the official who made the decision certifies to the Board after notice
of appeal has been filed that, because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property or, because the violation
is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of
the development regulation. In that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court. If
enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the
official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board shall
meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a development
approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent
with the development regulation shall not stay the further review of an
application for development approvals to use such property; in these
situations, the appellant or town may request and the relevant board may grant
a stay of a final decision of development approval applications, including
building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.076 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Town Board. A Town Alderman shall not vote on any legislative decision
regarding a subdivision regulation under this chapter where the outcome of the
matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the Alderman.
   (B)   Planning Board. Members of the Planning Board shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a subdivision regulation under this
chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely
to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the
member.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision regarding a subdivision regulation under this
chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant
or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff
member has a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be
assigned to the supervisor of the staff person or to such other staff person as
may be designated by the Subdivision Administrator.
   (D)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the chapter to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the town.
   (E)   Quasi-judicial decisions. When the Town Board is exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter, Board members shall not
participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would
violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker.
Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a
member having:
      (1)   A fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible
to change;
      (2)   Undisclosed ex parte communications;
      (3)   A close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person; or
      (4)   A financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (F)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
Board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (G)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a CLOSE FAMILIAL
RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)    After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a
Class 1 misdemeanor. Further, violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon
conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.The town may
bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings,
issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with the
subdivision regulation. Building permits may be denied for illegal
subdivisions. In addition to other remedies, the town may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful subdivision of land;
to restrain, correct, or abate the violation; or to prevent any illegal act or
conduct.
   (B)   Notices of violation. When the Subdivision Administrator determines
work or activity has been undertaken in violation of this chapter or any
approval issued hereunder, a written notice of violation may be issued. The
notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the approval and to the
landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the
approval, by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and
may be provided by similar means to the occupant of the property or the person
undertaking the work or activity. The notice of violation may be posted on the
property. The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
town that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud. A notice of violation may be appealed to
the Town Board, and the Town Board shall follow quasi-judicial processes as set
forth in §
152.074.
   (C)   Stop work orders. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to this chapter is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or
local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, the Subdivision
Administrator may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in
violation or presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall
be in writing, directed to the person doing the work or activity, and shall
state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the reasons therefor, and
the conditions under which the work or activity may be resumed. A copy of the
order shall be delivered to the holder of the subdivision approval and to the
owner of the property involved (if that person is not the holder of the
subdivision approval) by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class
mail. The person or persons delivering the stop work order shall certify to the
town that the order was delivered, and that certificate shall be deemed
conclusive in the absence of fraud. A stop work order may be appealed to the
Town Board, and the Town Board shall follow quasi-judicial processes as set
forth in §
152.074. No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop
work order pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall
constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (D)   Remedies.
      (1)   This chapter may be enforced by any remedy provided by G.S. § 160A-
175. If a building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used or developed in violation of this chapter, the town, in addition
to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or development; to restrain, correct or
abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building, structure, or land;
or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about the
premises.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, any person who, being the owner or
agent of the owner of any land located within the planning and development
regulation jurisdiction of the town, thereafter subdivides the land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in
the office of the Onslow County Register of Deeds, is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land does not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
   (E)   Revocation of subdivision approvals. Subdivision approvals given under
this chapter may be revoked by the town by notifying the holder in writing
stating the reason for the revocation. The town shall follow the same
subdivision review and approval process required for issuance of the
subdivision approval, including any required notice or hearing, in the review
and approval of any revocation of that approval. Subdivision approvals shall be
revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable local development regulation or any state law delegated to the town
for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any subdivision approval
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may also be
revoked. The revocation of a subdivision approval by the Subdivision
Administrator may be appealed pursuant to §
152.075.
   (F)   Inspections. The Subdivision Administrator and his or her staff may
inspect work undertaken pursuant to a development approval to assure that the
work is being done in accordance with applicable State and local laws and of
the terms of the approval. In exercising this power, staff are authorized to
enter any premises within the jurisdiction of the town at all reasonable hours
for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation
of proper credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate consent has been
given for inspection of areas not open to the public or that an appropriate
inspection warrant has been secured.
   (G)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within ten
days.
   (H)   Each day's continuing violation of this chapter shall be a separate
and distinct offense.
   (I)   Notwithstanding division (G) above, this chapter may be enforced by
appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this chapter by
using any one, all or a combination of remedies.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2000; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Effective dates
   
153.005   Relationship to existing zoning ordinance
   
153.006   Relationship to land use plan
   
153.007   No use of land or building, except in conformity with chapter
provisions
   
153.008   Only one principle building permitted on one lot
   
153.009   Street access
   
153.010   Fees
   
153.011   Severability
   
153.012   Computation of time
   
153.013   Definitions and interpretations
   
153.014   Zoning Administrator
   
153.015   Board of Aldermen
   
153.016   Approvals and disapprovals
Non-Conforming Situations
   
153.030   Definitions
   
153.031   Continuation of non-conforming situations and completion of non-
conforming projects
   
153.032   Non-conforming lots
   
153.033   Extension or enlargement of non-conforming situations
   
153.034   Repair, maintenance and reconstruction
   
153.035   Change in use of property where a non-conforming situation exists
   
153.036   Abandonment and discontinuance of non-conforming situations
   
153.037   Completion of non-conforming projects
   
153.038   Non-conforming signs
Zoning Districts
   
153.050   Residential districts established
   
153.051   Commercial districts established
   
153.052   Office and institutional districts established
   
153.053   Industrial districts established
   
153.054   Planned unit developments established
Zoning Map
   
153.065   Official zoning map
   
153.066   Amendments to official zoning map
Permissible Uses
   
153.080   Table of permissible uses
   
153.081   Use of the designations P, S, C in table of permissible uses
   
153.082   Board of Aldermen jurisdiction over uses otherwise permissible with a
zoning permit
   
153.083   Permissible uses and specific exclusions
   
153.084   Accessory uses
   
153.085   Permissible uses not requiring permits
   
153.086   Change in use
   
153.087   Combination uses
   
153.088   Planned unit developments
   
153.089   More specific use controls
   
153.090   General provisions for residential districts
   
153.091   Outdoor swimming pools
   
153.092   Exceptions to height regulations
Supplementary Use Regulations
   
153.105   Special events
   
153.106   Places of worship
   
153.107   Public and private schools
   
153.108   Parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities of a non-
commercial nature
   
153.109   Child care homes
   
153.110   Children’s day care facilities
   
153.111   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
153.112   Horse stables
   
153.113   Rules and regulations for manufactured homes located both inside and
outside of manufactured home parks within the zoning jurisdiction of the town
   
153.114   Requirements for approval of manufactured home parks
   
153.115   Satellite dish antennas
   
153.116   Condominiums
   
153.117   Sale of townhouses
   
153.118   Adult establishments
   
153.119   Telecommunications towers
   
153.120   Fences
   
153.121   Electronic gaming operations
   
153.122   Hookah, tobacco, vape and similar establishments
Density and Dimensional Regulations
   
153.135   Minimum lot size requirements
   
153.136   Residential density
   
153.137   Residential density bonuses
   
153.138   Procedures for obtaining density bonuses
   
153.139   Review criteria for density bonuses
   
153.140   Maximum density bonuses
   
153.141   Density credits for rights-of-way
   
153.142   Minimum lot widths
   
153.143   Building setback requirements
   
153.144   Exceptions and modifications
   
153.145   Building height limitations
   
153.146   Cluster subdivisions
   
153.147   Location of accessory buildings
Open Space
   
153.160   Usable open space
   
153.161   Mini-parks optional
   
153.162   Ownership and maintenance of required open space
   
153.163   Dedication of open space
   
153.164   Homeowners’ associations
   
153.165   Flexibility in administration authorized
   
153.166   Fees in lieu of usable open space
Signs
   
153.180   Definitions
   
153.181   Permit required for signs
   
153.182   Signs exempt from regulation
   
153.183   Certain temporary signs; permit exemptions and additional regulations
   
153.184   Determining the number of signs
   
153.185   Computation of sign area
   
153.186   Total sign surface area
   
153.187   Freestanding sign surface area
   
153.188   Number of freestanding signs
   
153.189   Subdivision and multi-family development entrance signs
   
153.190   Location and height requirements
   
153.191   Sign illumination and signs containing lights
   
153.192   Miscellaneous requirements
Parking
   
153.205   Board findings concerning the need for vehicle accommodation areas
   
153.206   Definitions
   
153.207   Number of parking spaces required
   
153.208   Flexibility in administration required
   
153.209   Parking space dimensions
   
153.210   Required widths of parking area aisles and driveways
   
153.211   General design requirements
   
153.212   Vehicle accommodation area surfaces
   
153.213   Joint use of required parking spaces
   
153.214   Satellite parking
   
153.215   Special provisions for lots with existing buildings
   
153.216   Loading and unloading areas
   
153.217   No parking to be indicated near fire hydrants
Screening
   
153.230   Board findings concerning the need for screening requirements
   
153.231   General screening standard
   
153.232   Compliance with screening standard
   
153.233   Descriptions of screens
   
153.234   Table of screening requirements
   
153.235   Flexibility in administration required
   
153.236   Special screening considerations
Tree Preservation
   
153.250   Statement of purpose
   
153.251   Board findings and declaration of policy on tree preservation
   
153.252   Definition
   
153.253   Tree preservation and replacement in new non-residential developments
and residential subdivisions
   
153.254   Procedural requirements for removal of trees in certain areas
   
153.255   Protection of regulated trees
   
153.256   Shade trees in parking areas
Planting
   
153.270   Definition
   
153.271   Board findings concerning the need for planting requirements
   
153.272   Compliance with planting requirements
Guide for Landscaping
   
153.285   Guide for protecting existing trees
   
153.286   Standards for street and parking lot trees
   
153.287   Typical parking lot planting islands
   
153.288   Guide for planting trees
   
153.289   Guide for planting shrubs
   
153.290   List of recommended trees and shrubs
Planning and Zoning Board
   
153.305   Appointment and terms of Planning and Zoning Board members
   
153.306   Meetings of the Planning and Zoning Board
   
153.307   Quorum and voting
   
153.308   Powers and duties of Planning and Zoning Board
   
153.309   Advisory committees
Board of Adjustment
   
153.320   Appointment and terms of Board of Adjustment
   
153.321   Meetings of the Board of Adjustment
   
153.322   Quorum
   
153.323   Voting
   
153.324   Board of Adjustment officers
   
153.325   Powers and duties of Board of Adjustment
Miscellaneous Board Requirements
   
153.330   Conflicts of interest
   
153.331   Oath
   
153.332   Quasi-judicial procedure
Permits and Vested Rights
   
153.340   Permits required; no occupancy, use or sale of lots until
requirements fulfilled
   
153.341   Who may submit permit applications
   
153.342   Applications to be complete
   
153.343   Staff consultation before formal application
   
153.344   Staff consultation after application submitted
   
153.345   Zoning permits
   
153.346   Authorizing use or occupancy before completion of development under
zoning permit
   
153.347   Special use permits
   
153.348   Recommendations on special use permits
   
153.349   Completing developments in phases
   
153.350   Expiration of permits
   
153.351   Amendments to and modifications of permits
   
153.352   Reconsideration of Board action
   
153.353   Applications to be processed expeditiously
   
153.354   Maintenance of common areas, improvements and facilities
   
153.355   Vested rights
Appeals, Variances, Interpretations
   
153.375   Appeals
   
153.376   Variances
   
153.377   Interpretations
   
153.378   Requests to be heard expeditiously
   
153.379   Burden of proof in appeals and variances
   
153.380   Board action on appeals
Enforcement and Review
   
153.415   Complaints regarding violations
   
153.416   Persons liable
   
153.417   Procedures upon discovery of violations
   
153.418   Penalties and remedies for violations
   
153.419   Permit revocation
   
153.420   Judicial review
Amendments
   
153.435   Amendments in general
   
153.436   Initiation of amendments
   
153.437   Planning and Zoning Board consideration of proposed amendments
   
153.438   Notice for map amendments
   
153.439   Board of Aldermen action on amendments
   
153.440   Ultimate issue before Board of Aldermen on amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Town of Richlands Zoning
Ordinance"; references herein to "ordinance" or "chapter" shall mean the Town
of Richlands Zoning Ordinance .
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
    This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160D-103
et seq.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)    This chapter shall apply within the town's corporate limits and
within any extraterritorial area established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-202 (or
predecessor statutes).
   (B)   In addition to other locations required by law, a copy of a map
showing the boundaries of the town's planning jurisdiction shall be available
for public inspection at the Town Hall.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.004 EFFECTIVE DATES.
    The original zoning ordinance of the town was adopted by the Board of
Aldermen on 3-5-1968, effective on 3-5-1968, with significant revisions adopted
on 4-7-1987, 10-12-1999, and 6-8-2021.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.005 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)    To the extent that the provisions of this chapter are the same in
substance as the previously adopted provisions that they replace in the town's
zoning ordinance, they shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as
new enactments unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   In particular, a situation that did not constitute a lawful, non-
conforming situation under the previously adopted zoning ordinance does not
achieve lawful non-conforming status under this chapter merely by the
reenactment of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.006 RELATIONSHIP TO LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Board of Aldermen that this chapter
implements the planning policies adopted by the Board for the town and its
extraterritorial planning area, as reflected in the land use plan and other
planning documents.
   (B)   On or before July 1, 2022, the town shall adopt a comprehensive plan
or a land use plan, as each are described in G.S. § 160D-501. Such plans are
designed to guide and accomplish a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious
development of the town that will best promote health, safety, morals, and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the development process.
Plans may address such as those set forth in G.S. § 160D-501(b). A plan adopted
pursuant to this section and G.S. § 160D-501 shall be considered by the
Planning Board and the Board of Aldermen when considering proposed amendments
to this chapter. Once adopted, amendments to a plan shall follow the procedures
for consideration and approval of a text amendment, as set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.007 NO USE OF LAND OR BUILDING, EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH CHAPTER
PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Subject to §§
153.030 through
153.038, no person shall commence or proceed with development without first
securing approval from the town as herein provided. An approval made pursuant
to this chapter attaches to and runs with the land.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, DEVELOPMENT shall have the meaning set
forth in §
153.013.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.008 ONLY ONE PRINCIPLE BUILDING PERMITTED ON ONE LOT.
   (A)    No residential lot shall be occupied by more than one principal
building, except as provided for in the PUD Planned Unit Development District-
Residential Zone.
   (B)   No part of a yard, court or other open space provided about any
building or structure for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall be included as a part of a yard or other open space required
under this chapter for another building or structure.
   (C)   A residence shall always constitute a principal use.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.009 STREET ACCESS.
    No building shall be erected on a lot which does not abut a public street
or private street, or have access to a public street or private street, by
written or otherwise enforceable easement or agreement; provided that, in a
commercial district or in a planned project in a residential district, a
building may be erected adjoining a parking area or other dedicated open space
which has access to a street used in common with other lots.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.010 FEES.
   (A)    Fees sufficient to cover the costs of administration, inspection,
publication of notice and similar matters may be charged to the applicant for
zoning permits, sign permits, special use permits, subdivision plat approval,
zoning amendments, variances and other administrative relief. The amount of the
fees charged shall be established from time to time by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Fees established in accordance with division (A) above shall be paid
upon submission of a signed application or notice of appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.011 SEVERABILITY.
    It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases of this chapter are
severable, and if such sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases are
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any other remaining sections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases of this chapter since the same would have been
enacted without the incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or
invalid section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.012 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)    Unless otherwise specifically provided, the time within which an
action is to be taken shall be computed by excluding the first and including
the last day. If the last day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day
shall be the next regular working day.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a person has the
right or is required to take some action within some prescribed period after
the service of a notice or other paper upon him or her and the notice or paper
is served by mail, three days shall be added to the prescribed period.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.013 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   General. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   (B)   Tense and number.
      (1)   The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense
includes the present tense.
      (2)   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural
number includes the singular number.
   (C)   Word interpretation.
      (1)   The word "may" is permissive.
      (2)   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory.
      (3)   The word "county" shall mean the County of Onslow, North Carolina.
      (4)   The words "Zoning Board", "Zoning Commission" or "Planning
Commission" shall mean the Richlands Planning Board.
      (5)   The words "Town Board" or "Board of Aldermen" shall mean Town Board
of Aldermen of Richlands, North Carolina.
      (6)   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied.
      (7)   As used in this chapter, words importing the masculine gender
include the feminine and the neuter.
      (8)   Words used in the singular in this chapter include the plural and
words used in the plural include the singular.
      (9)   The words "written" or "in writing" are deemed to include
electronic documentation.
      (10)   Unless specified otherwise, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the item for mailing with the United States
Postal Service, and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
      (11)   The phrase "Chapter 160D" shall mean Ch. 160D of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   (D)   Interpretation of district boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of each district which are indicated on the zoning
map of the town, together with all explanatory matter thereon, are hereby
adopted by reference and declaration to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown
on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
         (a)   Boundaries following centerlines. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streets, highways or alleys shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
         (b)   Boundaries following lot lines. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following plotted lot lines shall be construed as following such
lot lines.
         (c)   Boundaries following town limits. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following town limits shall be construed as following town
limits.
         (d)   Boundaries following shorelines. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, creeks or other bodies of
water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
         (e)   Boundaries parallel to centerlines. Where district boundaries
are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerline of
streets, alleys or highways, or the rights-of-way of the same, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the zoning map and/or within the text of this
chapter.
         (f)   Boundaries dividing lots. Where a district boundary line divides
a lot or tract in single ownership, the district requirements for the least
restricted portion of such lot or tract shall be deemed to apply to the whole
thereof; provided, such extensions shall not include any part of a lot or tract
more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary line. The term "least
restricted" shall refer to use restrictions and not to lot size.
         (g)   Cases of uncertainty in boundary decisions. In the event that
uncertainty exists in the interpretation of the district boundaries, the town's
Board of Adjustment shall interpret the intent of the zoning map as to the
location of such boundaries.
         (h)   Street vacation. Where any street or alley is hereafter
officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of
abutting property shall apply to that portion or such street or alley
abandonment. In a case where abutting property has a different zoning district
designation, boundaries follow centerlines.
   (E)   Interpretation of district regulations.
      (1)   Uses by right. All listed permitted uses are permitted by right
according to the terms of this chapter. Special uses are permitted subject to
strict compliance with additional regulations specified by the Board of
Aldermen.
      (2)   Minimum regulations. Regulations set forth in this chapter shall be
minimum regulations. If the requirements of this chapter are at variance with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations or
ordinances, the more restrictive rule, regulation or ordinance shall govern.
      (3)   Restrictive covenants and deed restrictions. Unless restriction
established by covenants and deed restrictions running with the land are
prohibited by the provisions of this chapter, the U.S. Constitution, or other
state or federal law, rule or regulation, nothing herein contained shall be
construed to render such covenants or restrictions inoperative.
      (4)   G.S. Ch. 160D is applicable to this chapter. In the event of any
conflict between this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160D, the provisions of G.S. Ch.
160D shall control.
   (F)   Basic definitions. Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless
otherwise clearly required by the context, the words and phrases defined in
this section shall have the meanings herein set forth when used in this
chapter. If a word or phrase used in this chapter is not defined by G.S. Ch.
160D or elsewhere in this chapter, to the extent such word or phrase is defined
in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition shall control.
      ABANDON. To cease the regular use or maintenance of a lot, building or
structure.
      ABUTTING. Having common property boundaries or lot lines that are not
separated by a street, alley or other vehicular rights-of-way such as a utility
easement.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure or building incidental to the principal
structure on the same lot. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include, but are not limited
to, detached garages, sheds, pool houses, material storage areas, barns and
workshops.
      ADJACENT. See ABUTTING.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the definitions of ADULT BOOKSTORE contained in
G.S. § 14-202.10(1), ADULT BOOKSTORE means a business establishment that:
            1.   Has one of its principal business purposes the sale or rental
of "publications" that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified anatomical areas", as
defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), or "specified sexual activities", as defined
in G.S. § 14-202.10(11);
            2.   Has a substantial or significant portion or its stock or trade
for sale or rental "publications" that are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specified
anatomical areas", as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), or "specified sexual
activities", as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(9);
            3.   Has "sexually oriented devices", as defined in G.S. § 14-
202.10(9);
            4.   Restricted access to the business establishment or portions of
the business establishment by persons under 16 years of age;
            5.   Posted signs or notices outside and/or inside the business
establishment indicating that the material offered for sale or rental might be
offensive; and/or
            6.   The building or portion of the building containing the
business establishment does not have windows or has windows that are screened
or otherwise obstructed or are situated in a manner that restricts visual
access from outside the building to materials displayed within for sale or
rental.
         (b)   As used in this definition, "publications" include, by way of
illustration, books, magazines, other periodicals, movies, videotapes and other
products offered in photographic, electronic, magnetic or other imaging medium.
         (c)   In addition to all other information available to the Zoning
Administrator in making a determination whether a particular use is an ADULT
BOOKSTORE, any of the following shall be indicia that an establishment has as
one of its principal business purposes the sale or rental of:
            1.   "Publications" that are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to "specific
anatomical areas", as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(10), or "specified sexual
activities", as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(11); and/or
            2.   "Sexually oriented devices", as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10
(9).
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Adult cabarets, adult bookstores, adult mini motion
picture theaters and all other places contained in G.S. § 14-202.10, except in
the case of a licensed massage therapist.
      ACCESSORY USE. See § 153.084 of this chapter.
      AGRICULTURE.
         (a)   The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, forestry and animal and poultry
husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the
produce (not to include slaughterhouses); provided, however, that, the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities.
         (b)   The following definitions apply to the appropriate zoning
districts.
            1.   AGRICULTURE-LIVESTOCK.
               a.   The activity of raising livestock. Minimum lot size for
livestock activities:
                  i.   Fowl averaging under five pounds in weight. The number
of such fowl shall not exceed 25 per acre or a maximum of 400. All housing
structures, outdoor pens and feeding areas shall be set back one foot per fowl
from all property lines. All fowl must be confined or fenced together.
                  ii.   Fowl averaging over five pounds in weight. The number
of such fowl shall not exceed three per acre or a maximum of 35. All housing
structures, outdoor pens and feeding areas shall be set back ten feet per fowl
from all property lines. All fowl must be confined or fenced together; and
                  iii.   Animals, other than fowl, averaging over 30 pounds in
weight. The number of such animals shall not exceed three per acre or a maximum
of 35. All housing structures, outdoor pens and feeding areas for such animals
shall be set back ten feet per animal from all property lines. Such animals
shall not be confined together. Offspring less than 30 days old shall not be
included in the number per acre.
               b.   The AGRICULTURE-LIVESTOCK definition does not apply to
animals ordinarily considered pets such as dogs, cats and birds.
            2.   AGRICULTURE-VEGETATIVE. The activity of cultivating the soil
and/or producing crops.
      AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Any business establishment which is
primarily engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a miniature golf
course, skateboard course, water slide, mechanical ride, par 3 golf course,
golf driving range, go cart or motorcycle course, fish ranch or similar
activity to the general public.
      AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL INDOOR. Any business establishment which is
primarily engaged in providing an amusement activity such as a video arcade,
billiard parlor, skating rink or similar activity as a principal use to the
general public, but does not include indoor motion picture theaters.
Establishments that offer electronic "internet sweepstakes" or similar
electronic games or provide internet services for the principle or accessory
service and/or use of providing electronic "internet sweepstakes" are not
subject to this definition and the regulation of such establishments are
provided in § 153.121.
      ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used
for the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omni-directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic
antenna (disc). The ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support structure.
      ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any building or structure other than a tower,
which can be used for location of telecommunications facilities.
      ANTENNAS, SATELLITE RECEIVE-ONLY EARTH STATION. Also known as TV DISH
ANTENNA. A dish-shaped antenna designed to receive commercial television
broadcasts relayed from earth-orbiting communication satellites which provide
home entertainment, public information and educational type programs.
      APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
      AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. Any land or area, other than a vehicle storage
area, used, operated or maintained, in whole or part, for the storage, keeping,
accumulation, dismantling, salvaging, disassembling, demolition, buying,
selling or abandonment of junked motor vehicles regardless of the length of
time that such vehicles remain on the property, unless such vehicles are
currently being restored to an operable condition.
      AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. A building and its premises used for the storage,
care, repair or refinishing of motor vehicles including both minor and major
mechanical overhauling, paint and body work. Minor repairs shall be limited to
battery and tire changes, light and fuse replacement, wiper blade changes and
similar activities. Also referred to as VEHICLE REPAIR.
      AWNING. A structure made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be raised or retracted from a
building to a flat position against the building, but not a canopy.
      BED AND BREAKFAST (TOURIST) HOME. A use:
         (a)   That takes place within a building that, before the effective
date of this chapter, was designed and used as a single-family detached
dwelling;
         (b)   That consists of a single dwelling unit together with the rental
of one or more dwelling rooms on a daily or weekly basis to not more than five
tourists, vacationers or similar transients;
         (c)   Where the provision of meals, if provided at all, is limited to
the breakfast meal; and
         (d)   Where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted primarily by
persons who reside within the dwelling unit, with the assistance of not more
than the equivalent of one full-time employee.
BIG BOX DEVELOPMENT. A single structure containing at least 50,000 square feet
of gross floor area that is constructed for the purpose of retail or wholesale
occupancy.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The governing body of the Town of Richlands.
      BOARDINGHOUSE. A residential use consisting of at least one dwelling unit
together with more than two rooms that are rented out or are designed or
intended to be rented, but which rooms, individually or collectively, do not
constitute separate dwelling units. A ROOMINGHOUSE or BOARDINGHOUSE is
distinguished from a tourist home in that the former is designed to be occupied
by longer-term residents (at least month-to-month tenants) as opposed to
overnight or weekly guests.
      BUFFER. (See also SCREENING.) A strip of land with natural or planted
vegetation, located between a structure or use and a side or rear property
line, intended to spatially separate and visually obstruct the view of two
adjacent land uses or properties from one another. A BUFFER area may include
any required screening for the site.
      BUILDING. A structure designed to be used as a place of occupancy,
storage or shelter.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building that is located on the same lot as a
principal building and that is used incidentally to a principal building or
that houses an accessory use and unless otherwise permitted by the chapter
cannot be occupied or rented.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The primary building on a lot or a building that
houses a principal use.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The portion of the lot where a principal building may
be placed in conformity with the applicable setback requirements for the
district in which the said lot is located.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Inspector that
authorizes the recipient to undertake the construction, reconstruction,
conversion, alteration, relocation, enlargement or demolition of a structure or
building as regulated by local and state laws governing such activity.
      CAMPGROUND. Any site or tract of land upon which are located the minimum
number of travel trailer spaces of land area required by this chapter,
regardless of whether or not a change is made for such services.
      CERTIFY. Whenever this chapter requires that some agency certify the
existence of some fact or circumstance to the town, the town may require that
such certification be made in any manner that provides reasonable assurance of
the accuracy of the certification. By way of illustration, and without limiting
the foregoing, the town may require that the certification be in the form of a
letter or other document.
      CHILD CARE HOME. A home for not more than nine orphaned, abandoned,
dependent, abused or neglected children, together with not more than two adults
who supervise such children, all of whom live together as a single housekeeping
unit. (Definition subject to change in the state's general statutes.)
      CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility housing more than nine
orphaned, abandoned, dependent, abused or neglected children. (Definition
subject to change in the state's general statutes.)
      CHURCH. See RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.
      CIRCULATION AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially,
driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the
CIRCULATION AREA.
      CLUB or PRIVATE LODGE. An incorporated or unincorporated association for
civic, social, cultural, religious, fraternal, literary, political,
recreational or like activities, operated on a non-profit basis for the benefit
of its members and certified as a non-profit organization by the Secretary of
State of North Carolina.
      COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING. Use of a common wireless communication facility
or common site by more than one wireless license holder or by one wireless
license holder for more than one type of communications technology and/or
placement of a wireless communication facility on a structure owned or operated
by a utility or other public entity.
      COMBINATION USE. A use consisting of a combination on one lot of two or
more principal uses separately listed in the Table of Permissible Uses (§
153.080). (Under some circumstances, a second principal use may be regarded as
accessory to the first, and thus a COMBINATION USE is not established. See §
153.084.) In addition, when two or more separately operated enterprises occupy
the same lot, and all such enterprises fall within the same principal use
classification, this shall not constitute a COMBINATION USE.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A publicly sponsored, non-profit, indoor facility
providing for one or several of various types of recreational uses. Facilities
in a COMMUNITY CENTER may include, but are not limited to, gymnasia, swimming
pools, indoor court areas, meeting/activity rooms and other similar uses. For
the purposes of this definition, the term "publicly sponsored" means that a
significant town or non-profit investment is involved in some fashion in the
facility's development or operations.
      CONSERVATION AREA. Environmentally and aesthetically sensitive and
valuable lands protected from an activity that would significantly alter their
ecological integrity, balance or character, except in cases of overriding
public interest.
      CONSERVATION AREAS. Includes freshwater and tidal marshes, wetlands,
natural shorelines, creeks, wooded tracts and other areas of significant
biological productivity or scenic beauty.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. An easement granting a right or interest in real
property for the purpose of retaining land or water areas predominantly in
their natural, scenic, open or wooded condition; retaining such areas as
suitable habitat for fish, plants or wildlife; or maintaining existing land
uses.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A day care facility as defined in G.S. § 110-86(3) (as
it may be amended from time to time), as well as a center providing day care on
a regular basis for more than two hours per day for more than five senior
citizens.
      DAY CARE HOME (SMALL). Any day care program or child care arrangement
wherein any person not excluded in G.S. § 110-86(2) provides day care on a
regular basis of at least once a week for more than four hours per day for more
than two children under 13 years of age and for fewer than six children at any
one time, wherever operated and whether or not operated for profit. The four-
hour limit applies regardless of whether the same or different children attend.
Cooperative arrangements among parents to provide day care for their own
children as a convenience rather than for employment are not included. To
determine whether a child care arrangement is a DAY CARE HOME, all children
shall be counted, except the operator's own school-aged children and school-
aged children who reside at the location of the DAY CARE HOME. Notwithstanding
the limitation to five children prescribed above, the day care home operator
may care for three additional school-aged children. (Definition subject to
change in the state's general statutes.)
      DAY CARE HOME (LARGE). A child care arrangement as described above in
which the provider may care for between six and 12 children when any child
present is preschool-aged and a maximum of 15 children when all are school-
aged. (Definition subject to change in the state's general statutes.)
      DESIGNATED BUFFER. An area of land adjacent to lakes or watercourses that
pursuant to this chapter remains undisturbed in order to reduce the
sedimentation and pollution of such lakes, creeks or watercourses.
      DEVELOPER. A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the
property to be developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to
undertake development on that property.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any of the following: (a) the construction, erection,
alteration, enlargement, renovation, substantial repair, movement to another
site, or demolition of any structure; (b) the excavation, grading, filling,
clearing, or alteration of land; (c) the subdivision of land as defined in G.S.
§ 160D-802; or (d) the initiation or substantial change in the use of land or
the intensity of use of land. This definition does not alter the scope of
regulatory authority granted by this chapter.
      DIMENSIONAL NON-CONFORMITY. A non-conforming situation that occurs when
the height, size or maximum floorspace or floor-to-area ratio of a structure or
the relationship between an existing building or buildings and other buildings
or lot lines does not conform to the regulations applicable to the district in
which the property is located.
      DRIVEWAY. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting
a public road, private road, easement or private right-of-way, giving access
from a public road, recorded easement, recorded private road or private right-
of-way and leading to a building, use or structure on that lot.
DUPLEX. See RESIDENCE, DUPLEX.
      DWELLING UNIT. A structure containing sleeping, kitchen and bathroom
facilities designed for and used or held ready for use as a permanent residence
by one family.
      ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Any business activity or enterprise, whether
as a principal, partial or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic
machines, including, but not limited to, computers and gaming terminals, to
conduct games of chance, including sweepstakes and where cash, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the
value of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. This includes, but is not limited to, internet cafés,
internet sweepstakes, cyber cafés or electronic game parlors in which
individuals normally gain access to games of chance, with prize distributions,
through the purchase of internet time, telephone cards or other means of
qualification. This does not include any lottery endorsed by the state.
      EXISTING LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. The term also includes binding contractual commitments
to make future expenditures, as well as any other substantial changes in
position.
      EXTRATERRITORIAL PLANNING AREA. The portion of the town's planning
jurisdiction that lies outside the town's corporate boundaries. The term
EXTRATERRITORIAL PLANNING JURISDICTION is interchangeable with the term
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ).
      FACADE. The visible exterior portion of a building wall which extends
from the ground to the top of the wall or roof line.
      FACADE MODULE. A 60-foot or shorter horizontal section of facade
containing a minimum of five unique architectural elements.
      FACADE, OTHER. Any facade which is not considered a primary or secondary
facade.
      FACADE, PRIMARY. The facade containing the highest number of customer
entrances.
      FACADE, SECONDARY. A facade which is designed to be viewed from a public
street, but is not the primary facade.
      FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
      FLEA MARKET. An occasional or periodic sales activity held within a
building, structure or open area where groups of individual sellers offer
goods, new and used, for sale to the public, not to include private yard sales.
      GLARE. Discomfort experienced by an observer with a direct line of sight
to a light source that often results in visual impairment.
      GUEST HOUSE (PRIVATE). An accessory building, not part of the principal
building, containing living space for not more than one family for private,
personal use and not intended or available for rent or lease.
      GUEST HOUSE (RENTAL). An accessory building, not part of the principal
building, containing living space for not more than one family that is rented
out or intended to be rented out and/or available for lease.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage.
      HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or any combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
      HALFWAY HOUSE. A home for not more than nine persons who have
demonstrated a tendency toward alcoholism, drug abuse, mental illness or
antisocial or criminal conduct, together with not more than two persons
providing supervision and other services to such persons, all of whom live
together as a single housekeeping unit. (Definition subject to change in the
state's general statutes.)
      HANDICAPPED, AGED OR INFIRM HOME. A residence within a single dwelling
unit for at least six, but not more than nine, persons who are physically or
mentally handicapped, aged or infirmed, together with not more than two persons
providing care or assistance to such persons, all living together as a single
housekeeping unit. (Definition subject to change in the state's general
statutes.)
      HANDICAPPED, AGED OR INFIRM INSTITUTION. An institutional facility that
provides residential care for more than nine aged, disabled or handicapped
persons whose principal need is a home that provides the sheltered or personal
care their age or disability necessitates. Medical care at such a facility is
only occasional or incidental, such as may be required in the home of any
individual or family, but the administration of medication is supervised. The
residents of such a facility do not occupy separate dwelling units, and this
distinguishes such a facility from a multi-family development occupied by the
elderly, handicapped or disabled. (Definition subject to change in the state's
general statutes.)
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance which may pose a danger to the public
health or safety if contained in the public water supply. This includes all
substances defined as hazardous chemicals by the community right-to-know
reporting requirements under §§ 311 and 312 of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, and by the State Hazardous Chemicals Right-to-Know
Act (G.S. §§ 95-173 through 95-218).
      HOME OCCUPATION.
         (a)   Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by
the occupants thereof, which use:
            1.   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
for dwelling purposes (i.e., not to exceed 20% of the sum of the total gross
floor area of the dwelling) and does not change the character thereof;
            2.   Does not involve an exterior or window display of goods or
pieces of merchandise for sale or rent upon the premises;
            3.   Employs no person not a resident on the premises in connection
with the home occupation;
            4.   Does not involve the use of chemical, mechanical or electrical
equipment that is not routinely used in a residence or a professional or
business office; and
            5.   Does not involve a use that would have a significantly adverse
impact on surrounding properties (e.g., noise, glare of lights, traffic safety,
hours of operation).
         (b)   This definition is not intended to, and does not permit the
practice of a profession (i.e., lawyer, doctor or any other professional
required to be licensed by the state) in a dwelling as a HOME OCCUPATION.
      HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION. A formally constituted non-profit association or
corporation made up of the property owners and/or residents of a fixed area who
are responsible for owning, operating and/or maintaining various common areas
or facilities.
      HOOKAH, VAPE, TOBACCO AND SIMILAR RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS. A specialized
retail establishment use primarily used for the sale or storage of tobacco
products, electronic smoking/vaping devices, Kratom, CBD, hemp derived Delta-
8 and related accessories. These products may include, but are not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco, vaping devices, e-liquids,
and vaping accessories. An area may also be included whereby patrons share the
tobacco or nontobacco products, or products from a communal hookah, water pipe,
or similar device.
      HOTEL. A building containing more than four individual rooms for the
purpose of providing overnight lodging facilities to the general public for
compensation, with or without meals, and which has common facilities for
reservations and cleaning services, combined utilities and on site management
and reception services.
      ICE VENDING MACHINE. A freestanding building or modular unit that
produces, stores, bags and or vends ice to the consumer in an automated
fashion. These uses are considered a separate use and may not be utilized as
accessory structures.
      INDEPENDENT PARKING LOTS OR GARAGES. An area or garage:
         (a)   That is used for the temporary parking (not storage) of motor
vehicles;
         (b)   That is located on a lot on which there is no other principal
use to which the parking is related; and
         (c)   Where the parking spaces are used by more than one enterprise or
by the general public.
      INDOOR PET BOARDING ESTABLISHMENT. Any lot or premises on which no more
than ten domesticated animals more than four months of age are temporarily
housed, groomed or boarded indoors. This activity does not include the
breeding, sale, trading or exchanging of domestic animals.
      INTERMEDIATE CARE HOME. A facility maintained for the purpose of
providing accommodations for not more than seven occupants needing medical care
and supervision at a lower level than that provided in a nursing care
institution, but at a higher level than that provided in institutions for the
handicapped or infirm. (Definition subject to change in the state's general
statutes.)
      INTERMEDIATE CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility maintained for
the purpose of providing accommodations for more than seven persons needing
medical care and supervision at a lower level than that provided in a nursing
care institution, but at a higher level than that provided in institutions for
the handicapped or infirm. (Definition subject to change in the state's general
statutes.)
      INTERNET CAFÉ/SWEEPSTAKES. See ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION.
      JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle that
does not display a current license plate, and that also:
         (a)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
         (b)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; and/or
         (c)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $500.
      JUNKYARD. See SCRAP MATERIALS SALVAGE YARD.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. A commercial operation that:
         (a)   Provides food and shelter and care of animals for purposes not
primarily related to medical care (a KENNEL may or may not be run by or
associated with a veterinarian); or
         (b)   Engages in the breeding of animals for sale.
      KENNEL, PRIVATE. A structure used for the outdoor accommodation of small
domestic animals and not operated on a commercial basis.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person that results
in a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute
to sedimentation or soil compaction that affects the critical root zone.
      LANDSCAPING. The installation and maintenance, usually of a combination
of trees, shrubs, plant materials or other ground cover, including grass,
mulch, decorative stone and similar materials, but excluding bare soil,
uncultivated vegetation, impervious pavement materials and gravel. Any live
plant material such as trees, shrubs, ground cover and grass areas left in
their natural state. See §§
153.285 through
153.290.
      LIGHT MANUFACTURING. The assembly, fabrication or processing of goods and
materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes,
odors, glare or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where
such assembly, fabrication or processing takes place; where such processes are
housed entirely within a building; or where the area occupied by outdoor
storage of goods and materials used in such processes do not exceed 25% of the
floor area of all buildings on the property.
      LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of §
153.216.
      LOT.
         (a)   A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some
legal instrument such as a recorded deed or a recorded map and which is
recognized as a separate legal unit for purposes of transfer of title.
         (b)   If a public body or any authority with the power of eminent
domain condemns, purchases or otherwise obtains fee simple title to or a lesser
interest in a strip of land cutting across a parcel of land otherwise
characterized as a lot by this definition, or the road so created is such that
it effectively prevents use of this parcel as one lot, then the land on either
side of this strip shall constitute a separate LOT.
         (c)   Subject to § 153.032, the permit-issuing authority and the owner
of two or more contiguous lots may agree to regard the lots as one lot if
necessary or convenient to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter.
In the event this is done, it must be recorded in the County Register of Deeds
Office.
      LOT AREA. The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot; except
that:
         (a)   When the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of
the lot extending to the center of a public street right-of-way or into a
public street right-of-way, then the lot boundary for purposes of computing the
LOT AREA shall be the street right-of-way line, or a line running parallel to
and 25 feet from the center of the traveled portion of the street if the exact
right-of-way line cannot be determined; and
         (b)   In a residential district, when a private road that serves more
than three dwelling units is located along any lot boundary, then the lot
boundary for purposes of computing the LOT AREA shall be the outside boundary
of the traveled portion of that road.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded and registered in a deed or on a plat prior to the effective
date of this chapter. A LOT OF RECORD may be used as a building site for a
structure to be used for a purpose permitted in the district in which the said
lot is located, although its size does not permit its owner to comply with
minimum area and yard requirements; provided, however, front, side and rear
yards, if required in said district, shall be provided on said lot in no less
than the same proportion to those required, as the area of the LOT OF RECORD
compares to the area requirement in said zoning district.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145(7). See §
153.113.
      MASSAGE THERAPY. Health massage or bodywork therapy, performed by a
practitioner with credentials in one of the following ways:
         (a)   Having a diploma or certificate from an institute or school of
health massage, which has been accredited by either the American Massage
Therapists Association, the National Therapists Association or from an
accredited college or university, school of education for massage therapy; or
         (b)   Providing verification and documentation of at least 500 hours
of experience in the practice of health massage/bodywork therapy and three
letters of reference from state licensed health care professionals or licensed
therapists on their professional letterhead.
      MICROBREWERY. A brewery that produces less than 310,000 gallons of beer
per year for wholesale, or wholesale and retail.
      MODULAR STRUCTURE. A dwelling structure constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in the State Building Code for its use and composed of
components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to
the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a MODULAR STRUCTURE may consist of two sections transported to
the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that, the MODULAR
STRUCTURE meets the State Building Code), or a series of panels or room
sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the site.
      NIGHTCLUB. Any commercial establishment serving alcoholic beverages and/
or providing entertainment for patrons, including, but not limited to, bars,
lounges, taverns, cabarets and similar establishments.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter
that does not meet the minimum area and dimensional requirements of the
district in which the lot is located.
      NON-CONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
      NON-CONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective
date of this chapter, any existing lot or structure or use of an existing lot
or structure does not conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to
the district in which the lot or structure is located. Among other
possibilities, a NON-CONFORMING SITUATION may arise because a lot does not meet
minimum square footage requirements, because structures exceed maximum height
limitations, because the relationship between existing buildings and the land
(in such matters as density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with
this chapter, because signs do not meet the requirements of this chapter (§§
153.180 through 153.192), or because land or buildings are used for purposes
made unlawful by this chapter.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A non-conforming situation that occurs when property
is used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located.
      NURSING CARE HOME. A facility maintained for the purpose of providing
skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower level than that
available in a hospital to not more than nine persons. (Definition subject to
change in the state's general statutes.)
      NURSING CARE INSTITUTION. An institutional facility maintained for the
purpose of providing skilled nursing care and medical supervision at a lower
level than that available in a hospital to more than nine persons.
      OFFICE. A use or structure in which business or professional services are
conducted or rendered.
      OPEN SPACE. Any area which is not divided into private or civic building
lots, streets, rights-of-way, parking or easements. In the low impact
subdivision, OPEN SPACE may also include portions of private building lots
subject to a permanent open space easement. URBAN OPEN SPACE assumes one or
more of the forms detailed in subdivision ordinance, and may contain recreation
equipment and amenities as indicated. RURAL OPEN SPACE is site specific in its
designation.
      OPEN SPACE, COMMON AREA. Designed to serve the residents of the immediate
block or neighborhood. Ownership and maintenance of such COMMON AREAS shall be
in fee simple title to a homeowners' association or similar organization.
      OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Dedicated to a local government or non-profit
conservancy organization for ownership and maintenance. PUBLIC OPEN SPACES
shall maintain free and public access. Hours of access may be restricted in
accordance with health and safety guidelines.
      ORDINANCE. This chapter, including any amendments. Whenever the effective
date of the ordinance is referred to, the reference includes the effective date
of any amendment to it.
      OUT PARCEL. A parcel of land associated with and located within a
shopping center, mall or big box development, which is designated on an
approved site plan as a location for a structure with an intended use.
      OUTDOOR RECREATION. Swimming pools, tennis courts, ball fields and ball
courts which are not enclosed in buildings and are operated on a commercial or
membership basis primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same
lot as that on which the recreational use is located. OUTDOOR RECREATION shall
include any accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro shops and club houses which
are designed and intended primarily for the use of patrons of the principal
recreational use.
      OUTSIDE DISPLAY OF GOODS FOR SALE OR RENT. Display outside of a fully
enclosed building of the particular goods or pieces of merchandise or equipment
that are themselves for sale. OUTSIDE DISPLAY is to be distinguished from
outside storage of goods that are not prepared and displayed for immediate sale
or rent.
      OWNER. Any full or part owner, joint owner tenant in common, tenant in
partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety with legal title to the
whole or to part of a structure or parcel of land.
      PARKING AREA AISLES. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area
consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
      PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set aside for
the parking of one vehicle.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State of North
Carolina and its agencies and political subdivisions, or other legal entity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development constructed on a tract of
land at least two acres in size under single ownership (unless totally
residential, in which case less than two acres is acceptable), planned and
developed as an integral unit, and consisting of a combination of uses as
outlined in §§ 153.054 and 153.088.
      PLANNING JURISDICTION. The area within the town limits as well as the
area beyond the town limits within which the town is authorized to plan for and
regulate development pursuant to the authority granted in G.S. § 160D-202.
      PLANTING STRIP. The area of land along the front property line parallel
to the outside of the right-of-way reserved for tree planting and landscaping.
      PLAT. A map showing the location, boundaries and ownership of individual
properties.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A church, synagogue, temple, mosque or other place
of religious worship, including any customary accessory uses or structure, such
as a school, day care center, cemetery or residential dwelling located on the
same lot.
      REPAIR. The modification, maintenance and/or replacement of
telecommunications equipment not to exceed 50% of the total value of the
telecommunications facility.
      RESIDENCE, DUPLEX. A two-family residential use in which the dwelling
units share a common wall (including without limitation the wall of an attached
garage or porch) and in which each dwelling unit has living space on the ground
floor and a separate, ground floor entrance.
      RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY. A residential use consisting of a building
containing three or more dwelling units. For purposes of this definition, a
building includes all dwelling units that are enclosed within that building or
attached to it by a common floor or wall (even the wall of an attached garage
or porch).
      RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY CONDOMINIUM. A unit in which the occupancy rights
are individually owned (or for sale to individuals) and in which the unit
ownership does not include any land. (See §
153.116.)
      RESIDENCE, MULTI-FAMILY TOWNHOUSES. A multi-family residential use in
which each dwelling unit shares a common wall (including without limitation the
wall of an attached garage or porch) with at least one other dwelling unit and
in which each dwelling unit has living space on the ground floor and a separate
ground floor entrance.
      RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A residential use consisting of a
single detached building containing one dwelling unit.
      RESTAURANT. A building or operation, the purpose of which is to
accommodate the consumption of food and beverages.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS. A building, property or activity the principal use
or purpose of which is the sale of goods, products or merchandise directly to
the consumer.
      ROOMINGHOUSE. Same as BOARDINGHOUSE.
      SCHOOL. Institutions that provide a place of academic learning. Publicly
owned or privately owned preschools, elementary schools, middle schools, junior
high schools, vocational schools and high schools; but not including
institutions the primary function of which is day care. SCHOOLS include
customary accessory uses such as recreational facilities, cafeterias and
auditoriums. The use of temporary/mobile facilities for school use is further
regulated as listed in the Table of Uses, §
153.080.
      SCHOOL FACILITIES, PERMANENT. Permanent, site-built facilities, buildings
and structures used for the instruction, and customary accessory uses such as
recreation facilities, cafeterias and auditoriums.
      SCHOOL FACILITIES, MOBILE. A detached structure built on a permanent
chassis so that it is portable in one or more sections, but specifically
designed for use as a temporary accessory classroom for an established
educational facility.
      SCRAP MATERIALS SALVAGE YARD. Any land or area used, operated or
maintained, in whole or part, for the storing, keeping, dismantling,
disassembling, salvaging, abandoning, buying or selling of scrap or waste
materials, including scrap metals, wastepaper, used building materials, used
vehicles or machinery, or other scrap materials.
      SCREENING. A fence, wall, hedge, landscaping, buffer area or any
combination of these provided to create a visual separation between certain
land uses. A SCREEN may be located on the property line or elsewhere on the
site, as determined by the use to be screened.
      SHELTER, FALLOUT. A structure or portion of a structure intended to
provide protection to human life during periods of danger from nuclear fallout,
air raids or storms.
      SHOPPING CENTER. Mercantile establishment consisting of a carefully
landscaped complex of shops representing leading merchandisers; usually
includes restaurants and a convenient parking area; a modern version of the
traditional marketplace. May also be referred to as a MALL or PLAZA.
      SIGN. Any surface, fabric or device bearing lettered, pictorial or
sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public
view; or any structure (including a billboard or poster panel) designed to
carry the above visual information.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered:
         (a)   Only elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is
displayed; or
         (b)   As a minor and incidental activity upon the premises where the
sign is displayed.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession
or industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to type of
products sold, manufactured or assembled, and/or to service or entertainment
offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if such
activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that:
         (a)   Is permanent; and
         (b)   Is attached to, erected on or supported by some structure such
as a pole, mast or frame that is not itself an integral part of a building or
other structure having a principal function other than the support of a sign.
      SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. A sign that, on the effective date of this chapter,
does not conform with one or more of the regulations set forth in this chapter,
particularly §§ 153.180 through 153.192.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or
other activity that is conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located. The structure on which an advertising
sign is displayed of the type commonly known as a "billboard" is also an
advertising sign.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY.
         (a)   A sign that:
            1.   Is used in connection with a circumstance, situation or event
that is designed, intended or expected to take place or to be completed within
a reasonably short period of time after the erection of such sign;
            2.   Is intended to remain on the location where it is erected or
placed for a period of not more than 15 days; or
            3.   Is displayed on the premises only during normal operating
hours and then removed from that location.
         (b)   If a sign display area is permanent, but the message displayed
is subject to periodic changes, that sign shall not be regarded as TEMPORARY.
      SIGN, WALL. A sign attached or erected against the wall of a building or
structure, only one side of which is visible.
      SIGN, SHINGLE. A small signboard hanging or protruding so that both sides
are visible and which has no dimension more than two feet and which is no
larger than three square feet. A SHINGLE SIGN may be mounted as a wall sign so
that only one side is visible.
      SIGN PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator that authorizes
the recipient to erect, move, enlarge or substantially alter a sign.
      SITE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A scaled drawing and supporting text
showing the relationship between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses,
buildings, or structures on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific
details such as building areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from
lot lines and street rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and
locations, parking, access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities
that are depicted to show compliance with all legally required development
regulations that are applicable to the project and the site plan review. For
purposes of this chapter, such plan shall be limited to the following plans or
approvals: a subdivision general plan or a special use permit.
      SPECIAL EVENTS. Circuses, fairs, carnivals, festivals or other types of
special events that:
         (a)   Run for longer than one day, but not longer than two weeks;
         (b)   Are intended to or likely to attract substantial crowds; and
         (c)   Are unlike the customary or usual activities generally
associated with the property where the special event is to be located.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Adjustment that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter as well as any additional requirements imposed by
the Board of Adjustment.
      STEALTH. Any tower or telecommunications facility which is designed to
enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses, including, but not limited to,
architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, antennas integrated into
architectural elements and towers designed to look other than like a tower such
as light poles, power poles and trees. The term STEALTH does not necessarily
exclude the use of uncamouflaged lattice, guyed or monopole tower designs.
      STREAM. A body of water, including large drainage ditches and canals,
flowing in a natural surface channel. Flow may be continuous or only during wet
periods.
      STREAM, INTERMITTENT. A stream, drainage ditch or canal that flows only
in direct response to precipitation or tidal action. It is dry for a large part
of the year.
      STREET. A public street or a street with respect to which an offer of
dedication has been made.
      STREET, ARTERIAL. A major street in the town street system that serves as
an avenue for the circulation of traffic into, out of or around the city and
carries high volumes of traffic. All state-maintained streets within the town
and their extensions into the extraterritorial area are arterial streets with a
minimum width of 44 feet back of curb to back of curb.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street whose sole function is to provide access to
abutting properties. It serves or is designed to serve at least ten, but not
more than 25, dwelling units and is expected to or does handle between 75 and
200 trips per day with a minimum street width of 27 feet back of curb to back
of curb.
      STREET, SUBCOLLECTOR. A street whose principal function is to provide
access to abutting properties, but is also designed to be used or is used to
connect minor and local streets with collector or arterial streets, including
residences indirectly served through connecting streets. It serves or is
designed to serve at least 26, but not more than 100, dwelling units and is
expected to or does handle between 200 and 800 trips per day with a minimum
street width of 31 feet back of curb to back of curb.
      STRUCTURE. A walled or roofed building that is principally above ground,
a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made
facilities or infrastructure.
      SWIMMING POOL. A water-filled enclosure, permanently constructed or
portable, having a depth of more than 18 inches below the level of the
surrounding land, or an above ground pool having a depth of more than 30 inches
designed, used, and maintained for swimming and bathing. This includes in-
ground, above ground and on ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Any cables, wires, lines wave guides,
antennas and any other equipment or facilities associated with the transmission
or reception of communications which a person seeks to locate or has installed
upon or near a tower or antenna support structure. However, TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES shall not include satellite receive-only earth station antennas and
household antennas.
      TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A building placed on a lot for a specific purpose
which is to be removed within a specified time period. Examples of TEMPORARY
STRUCTURES are monitoring station, mobile classroom, construction trailer and
produce stand.
      TOWER. Any structure such as a bell tower, fire hose tower or water
tower, as well as any structure whose principal function is to support an
antenna.
      TOWER CO-LOCATION. An arrangement whereby more than one user occupies a
single tower or structure.
      TOWER, COMMUNICATIONS. A structure greater than 60 feet in height whose
primary purpose is to support communications equipment. This definition
includes tower/antenna/building combinations and the height measurement applies
to those combinations. This definition shall not include wire-supporting
electric power transmission and telephone poles.
      TOWER, LATTICE. A guyed or self-supporting multi-sided, open, steel frame
structure used to support communications equipment.
      TOWER, MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire used to support
communications equipment.
      TRACT. The term is used interchangeably with the term PARCEL,
particularly in the context of subdivisions. A TRACT or PARCEL is frequently
subdivided into lots. (See LOT.)
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A small house trailer on wheels, usually drawn by a
passenger automobile or small truck, which is equipped for temporary use as a
dwelling while traveling and meant for short-term occupancy and which may also
be moved on short notice.
      USE. The activity or function that actually takes place or is intended to
take place on a lot.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. A use listed in the Table of Permissible Uses.
      UTILITY FACILITIES. Any aboveground structures or facilities (other than
buildings, unless such buildings are used as storage incidental to the
operation of such structures or facilities) owned by a governmental entity, a
non-profit organization, a corporation or any entity defined as a public
utility for any purpose by G.S. § 62-3(23) and used in connection with the
production, generation, transmission, delivery, collection or storage of water,
sewage, electricity, gas, oil or electronic signals. Excepted from this
definition are utility lines and supporting structures listed in §
153.085.
      UTILITY FACILITIES, NEIGHBORHOOD. Utility facilities that are designed to
serve the immediately surrounding neighborhood and that must, for reasons
associated with the purpose of the utility in question, be located in or near
the neighborhood where such facilities are proposed to be located.
      UTILITY FACILITIES, TOWN OR REGIONAL. All utility facilities other than
neighborhood facilities.
      VARIANCE. A permit which the Board of Adjustment may grant in certain
situations, enabling a property owner to make use of his or her property in
some way that conflicts with the literal provisions of this chapter. The
circumstances under which the Board of Adjustment may do this are set out in §§
153.375 through
153.380.
      VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles
for access, circulation, parking and loading and unloading. It comprises the
total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas.
      VEHICLE STORAGE AREA. An opaque screened storage area for used vehicles
or parts thereof that is used in connection with an automobile service station
or an automobile repair shop or body shop as a place to store used vehicles or
parts thereof while they are awaiting repair or pending the pickup of such
vehicles or parts by their owners, for a period not to exceed 180 days. The
opaque screen shall be that type of screen defined in § 153.233.
      VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use
of property under the terms and conditions of an approved site-specific
development plan, subdivision general plan or special use permit.
      VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town's land use ordinance regulations. A structure or other
development without the proper permits, certificates or other evidence of
compliance required herein is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
that documentation is provided.
      WHOLESALE SALES. On-premises sales of goods primarily to customers
engaged in the business of reselling the goods.
      WOODED AREA. An area of contiguous wooded vegetation where trees are at a
density of at least one six-inch or greater caliper tree per 325 square feet of
land where the branches and leaves form a contiguous canopy.
      YARD. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by a structure or
portion of a structure; provided, however, that, fences, walls, poles, posts,
other customary yard accessories, yard ornaments and yard furniture, and normal
roof overhangs (not exceeding two feet) may be permitted in any YARD subject to
height limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility or
movement.
      YARD, FRONT. An area extending between side lot lines across the front of
a lot adjoining a street. Depth of required FRONT YARDS shall be measured at
right angles to a straight line joining the foremost point of the side lot
lines at which the lot meets the normal minimum lot width required by this
chapter. In the case of lots with rounded property corners at street
intersections, the foremost point of the lot lines shall be assumed to be the
point at which the side and front lines would have met without such rounding.
      YARD, REAR. An area extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto at a distance therefrom
as required in the applicable district.
      YARD, SIDE. An area extending along the length of the lot between the
required front yard and the required rear yard, and between the side lot line
and a line parallel thereto and a distance therefrom as required in the various
districts.
      YARD, CORNER SIDE. An area extending the length of the lot between the
required front yard and required rear yard, and between the side street lot
line and a line thereto and a distance therefrom as required in the various
districts.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. See §
153.014.
      ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed
7-9-2024)
§ 153.014 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, primary responsibility for
administering and enforcing this chapter may be assigned by the Town
Administrator to one or more individuals. The person or persons to whom these
functions are assigned shall be referred to in this chapter as the "Zoning
Administrator" or "Administrator". The term "staff" or "planning staff" is
sometimes used interchangeably with the term "Administrator".
   (B)   Administrative staff may inspect work undertaken pursuant to a
development approval to assure that the work is being done in accordance with
applicable state and local laws and of the terms of the approval. In exercising
this power, staff are authorized to enter any premises within the jurisdiction
of the town at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials; provided, however,
that the appropriate consent has been given for inspection of areas not open to
the public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been secured.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.015 BOARD OF ALDERMAN.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen, when acting in a quasi-judicial capacity, is
required to observe the procedural requirements set forth in §§
153.340 through
153.355 and
153.375 through
153.380.
   (B)   In considering proposed changes in the text of this chapter or in the
official zoning map, the Board of Aldermen acts in its legislative capacity and
must proceed in accordance with the requirements hereof.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, in acting upon
permit requests or in considering amendments to this chapter or the official
zoning map, the Board of Aldermen shall follow the regular voting procedures
and other requirements as set forth in other provisions of the town code, the
town charter or general law.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.016 APPROVALS AND DISAPPROVALS.
   When this chapter specifies that a matter may or shall be approved or
disapproved, such approvals and disapprovals shall be communicated by the
officer or board making the determination who shall in turn give written notice
to the owner of the property that is the subject of the determination and to
the party who sought the determination, if different from the owner. The
written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by
first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the last address listed for
the owner of the affected property on the county tax abstract and to the
address provided in the application or request for a determination if the party
seeking the determination is different from the owner.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 153.030 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, unless otherwise specifically provided,
or unless otherwise clearly required by the context, the words and phrases
defined in this subchapter shall have the meaning herein set forth when used in
this subchapter. If a word or phrase used in this subchapter is not defined by
G.S. Ch. 160D or elsewhere in this chapter, to the extent such word or phrase
is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition shall control.
   DIMENSIONAL NON-CONFORMITY. A non-conforming situation that occurs when the
height, size or minimum floorspace of a structure or the relationship between
an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does not
conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property is
located.
   EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER. Whenever this subchapter refers to the
EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER, the reference shall be deemed to include the
effective date of any amendments to this chapter if the amendment, rather than
this chapter as originally adopted, creates a non-conforming situation.
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. The term also includes binding contractual commitments
to make future expenditures, as well as any other substantial changes in
position.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot existing at the effective date of this chapter
that does not meet the minimum area and dimensional requirements of the
district in which the lot is located.
   NON-CONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development or undertaking that is
incomplete at the effective date of this chapter and would be inconsistent with
any regulation applicable to the district in which it is located if completed
as proposed or planned.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign (see §
153.013) that, on the effective date of this chapter, does not conform to one
or more of the regulations set forth in this chapter, particularly §§
153.180 through
153.192.
   NON-CONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective
date of this chapter, an existing lot or structure or use of an existing lot or
structure does not conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to the
district in which the lot or structure is located. Among other possibilities, a
NON-CONFORMING SITUATION may arise because a lot does not meet minimum square
footage requirements, because structures exceed maximum height limitations,
because the relationship between existing buildings and the land (in such
matters as density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with this
chapter, or because land or buildings are used for purposes not permitted by
this chapter. Non- conforming signs shall not be regarded as non-conforming
situations for purposes of this subchapter, but shall be governed by the
provisions of §
153.038.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A non-conforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. The term also
refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the property.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.031 CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS AND COMPLETION OF NON-
CONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)    Non-conforming situations that were otherwise lawful on the effective
date of this chapter may be continued, subject to the restrictions and
qualifications set forth in the sections below.
   (B)   Non-conforming projects may be completed only in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.037.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.032 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   When a non-conforming lot, existing prior to the adoption of this
chapter, can be used in conformity with all of the regulations applicable to
the intended use, except that the lot is smaller than the required minimums set
forth in §
153.135, the lot may be used as proposed just as if it were conforming.
However, no use (e.g., a duplex) that requires a greater lot size for a
particular zone is permissible on a non-conforming lot.
   (B)   When the use proposed for a non-conforming lot is one that is
conforming in all other respects but the applicable setback requirements (see §
153.142) cannot reasonably be complied with, the Zoning Administrator shall be
authorized to reduce the yard requirements for such lot by not more than 20%.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, compliance with applicable
building setback requirements is not reasonably possible if a building that
serves the minimal needs of the use proposed for the non- conforming lot cannot
practicably be constructed and located on the lot in conformity with such
setback requirements. However, mere financial hardship does not constitute
grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
   (D)   This section applies only to undeveloped non-conforming lots. A lot is
undeveloped if it has no substantial structures upon it. A change in use of a
developed non-conforming lot may be accomplished in accordance with §
153.035.
   (E)   Subject to the following sentence, if, on the date this section
becomes effective, an undeveloped non-conforming lot adjoins and has continuous
frontage with one or more other undeveloped lots under the same ownership, then
neither the owner of the non-conforming lot, nor his or her successors in
interest, may take advantage of the provisions of this section. This division
(E) shall not apply to a non-conforming lot if a majority of the developed lots
located on either side of the street where such lot is located and within 500
feet of such lot are also non-conforming. The intent of this division (E) is to
require non-conforming lots to be combined with other undeveloped lots to
create conforming lots under the circumstances specified herein, but not to
require such combination when that would be out of character with the way the
neighborhood has previously been developed.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.033 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)    Except as specifically provided in this section, no person may engage
in any activity that causes an increase in the extent of non-conformity of a
non-conforming situation. In particular, physical alteration of structures or
the placement of new structures on open land is unlawful if such activity
results in:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a non-
conforming use; or
      (2)   Greater non-conformity with respect to dimensional restrictions
such as setback requirements, height limitations or density requirements or
other requirements such as parking requirements.
   (B)   Subject to division (D) below, a non-conforming use may be extended
throughout any portion of a completed building that, when the use was made non-
conforming by this chapter, was manifestly designed or arranged to accommodate
such use. In addition, a non-conforming use may be extended to additional
buildings located on the premises or to unimproved land outside the original
building or the additional buildings upon the issuance of a special use permit
by the Board of Adjustment which authorizes such additional non-conforming use.
Review and action on said special use permit shall be based on the criteria
contained in §
153.347.
   (C)   Subject to §
153.037, a non-conforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became non-conforming; except that,
a use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
quarry) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the use was
established at the time it became non-conforming if 10% or more of the earth
products had already been removed at the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   The volume, intensity or frequency of use or property where a non-
conforming situation exists may be increased, and the equipment or processes
used at a location where a non-conforming situation exists may be changed, if
these or similar changes amount only to changes in the degree of activity
rather than changes in kind, and no violations of other paragraphs of this
section occur.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, any stick-built structure used for
single-family residential purposes (other than manufactured homes) and
maintained as a non-conforming use may be enlarged or replaced with a similar
structure of a larger size, so long as the enlargement or replacement does not
create new non-conformities or increase the extent of existing non-conformities
with respect to such matters as setback and parking requirements. With the
following exceptions, manufactured homes used for single-family residential
purposes may be enlarged or replaced in accordance with this division (E);
provided, however, said enlargement or expansion in the case of those
manufactured homes that have remained vacant beyond the 180-day discontinuance
period shall be prohibited by this chapter. This division (E) is subject to the
limitations stated in §
153.036. These exceptions are as follows.
      (1)   Manufactured homes on individual lots in any commercial, office and
institutional district may not be replaced by another manufactured home of any
class.
      (2)   Manufactured homes on individual lots in the R-10 and R-15 Zoning
Districts may only be replaced by Class A manufactured homes on permanent
foundations with brick or masonry underpinning.
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, whenever:
         (a)   There exists a lot with one or more structures on it;
         (b)   A change in use that does not involve any enlargement of a
structure is proposed for such lot; and
         (c)   The parking requirements of §§
153.205 through
153.217 that would be applicable as a result of the proposed change cannot be
satisfied on such lot because there is not sufficient area available on the lot
that can practicably be used for parking, then the proposed use shall not be
regarded as resulting in an impermissible extension or enlargement of a non-
conforming situation.
      (2)   However, the applicant shall be required to comply with all
applicable parking and loading requirements that can be satisfied without
acquiring additional land, and shall also be required to obtain satellite
parking in accordance with §
153.214 if:
         (a)   Parking requirements cannot be satisfied on the lot with respect
to which the permit is required; and
         (b)   Such satellite parking is reasonably available.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.034 REPAIR, MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)    Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property where non-
conforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged. Major renovation
(i.e., work estimated to cost more than 75% of the appraised valuation of the
structure prior to damage and/or renovation) may be done only in accordance
with a zoning permit issued pursuant to this section.
   (B)   If a structure located on a lot where a non-conforming situation
exists is damaged to an extent that the costs of repair or replacement would
exceed 75% of the appraised valuation of the damaged structure, then the
damaged structure may be repaired or replaced only in accordance with a zoning
permit issued pursuant to this section. This division (B) does not apply to
structures used for single-family residential purposes, which structures may be
reconstructed pursuant to a zoning permit just as they may be enlarged or
replaced as provided in § 153.033(E).
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of divisions (A) and (B) above:
         (a)   The COST of renovation or repair or replacement shall mean the
fair market value of the materials and services necessary to accomplish such
renovation, repair or replacement;
         (b)   The COST of renovation or repair or replacement shall mean the
total cost of all such intended work, and no person may seek to avoid the
intent of divisions (A) and (B) above by doing such work incrementally; and
         (c)   The APPRAISED VALUATION shall mean either the appraised
valuation for property tax purposes, updated as necessary by the increase in
the consumer price index since the date of the last valuation, or the valuation
determined by a professionally recognized property appraiser.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to supply the
town with the appraised valuation of the property. Said valuation shall include
the necessary documentation to support the valuation.
   (D)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit authorized by this
section if he or she finds that, in completing the renovation, repair or
replacement work:
         (a)   No violation of §
153.033 will occur; and
         (b)   The permittee will comply to the extent reasonably possible with
all provisions of this chapter applicable to the existing use (except that the
permittee shall not lose his or her right to continue a non-conforming use,
except for those reasons outlined in §
153.036).
      (2)   Compliance with a requirement of this subchapter is not reasonably
possible if compliance cannot be achieved without adding additional land to the
lot where the non-conforming situation is maintained or moving a substantial
structure that is on a permanent foundation. Mere financial hardship caused by
the cost of meeting such requirements as paved parking does not constitute
grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.035 CHANGE IN USE OF PROPERTY WHERE A NON-CONFORMING SITUATION EXISTS.
   (A)   A change in use of property that is sufficiently substantial to
require a new zoning or special use permit in accordance with §
153.340(A) may not be made, except in accordance with divisions (B) through (D)
below. However, this requirement shall not apply if only a sign permit is
needed.
   (B)   If the intended change in use is to a principal use that is
permissible in the district where the property is located, and all of the other
requirements of this chapter applicable to that use can be complied with,
permission to make the change must be obtained in the same manner as permission
to make the initial use of a vacant lot. Once conformity with this chapter is
achieved, the property may not revert to its non-conforming status.
   (C)   If the intended change in use is to a principal use that is
permissible in the district where the property is located, but all of the
requirements of this chapter applicable to that use cannot reasonably be
complied with, then the change is permissible if the Zoning Administrator
issues a permit authorizing the change. This permit may be issued if the Zoning
Administrator finds, in addition to any other findings that may be required by
this chapter, that:
      (1)   The intended change will not result in a violation of §
153.033; and
      (2)   All of the applicable requirements of this chapter that can
reasonably be complied with will be complied with. Compliance with a
requirement of this chapter is not reasonably possible if compliance cannot be
achieved without adding additional land to the lot where the non-conforming
situation is maintained or moving a substantial structure that is on a
permanent foundation. Mere financial hardship caused by the cost of meeting
such requirements as paved parking does not constitute grounds for finding that
compliance is not reasonably possible. And in no case may an applicant be given
permission pursuant to this division (C)(2) to construct a building or add to
an existing building if additional non- conformities would thereby be created.
   (D)   If the intended change in use is to another principal use that is also
non-conforming, then the change is permissible if the Zoning Administrator
issues a permit authorizing the change. The Zoning Administrator may issue the
permit if it finds, in addition to other findings that may be required by this
chapter, that:
      (1)   The use requested is one that is permissible in some zoning
district with either a zoning or special use permit;
      (2)   All of the conditions applicable to the permit authorized in
division (C) above are satisfied; and
      (3)   The proposed development will have less of an adverse impact on
those most affected by it and will be more compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood than the use in operation at the time the permit is applied for.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.036 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)    When a non-conforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of
180 days, the property involved may thereafter be used only for conforming
purposes, except as detailed in division (F) below.
   (B)   If the principal activity on property where a non-conforming situation
other than a non-conforming use exists is discontinued for a continuous period
of 180 days, then that property may thereafter be used only in conformity with
all of the regulations applicable to the preexisting use, unless the entity
with authority to issue a permit for the intended use (i.e., the Board of
Adjustment) issues a permit to allow the property to be used for this purpose
without correcting the non-conforming situations. This permit may be issued if
the Board of Adjustment finds that eliminating a particular non-conformity is
not reasonably possible (i.e., cannot be accomplished without adding additional
land to the lot where the non-conforming situation is maintained or moving a
substantial structure that is on a permanent foundation). The permit shall
specify which non-conformities need not be corrected.
   (C)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a non-
conforming situation is lost pursuant to this section, all of the buildings,
activities and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered as
a whole. For example, the failure to rent one apartment in a non-conforming
apartment building for 180 days shall not result in a loss of the right to rent
that apartment or space thereafter so long as the apartment building as a whole
is continuously maintained. Likewise, if a non- conforming building remains on
the market for rent or sale and fails to be rented within a 180-day period, the
said non-conforming building shall be allowed to continue as a non-conformity
so long as there is evidence of the owner's intention to actively rent or sell
the said building.
   (D)   If a non-conforming use is maintained in conjunction with a conforming
use, discontinuance of a non-conforming use for the required period shall
terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
   (E)   (1)   When a structure or operation made non-conforming by this
chapter is vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the
180-day period for purposes of this section begins to run at the effective date
of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to determine
"substantial" compliance with the minimum standards set forth above, along with
other applicable standards specified by this chapter. The determination of the
Zoning Officer must be set forth in writing and must include an affirmative
assertion by him or her that:
         (a)   The continuance of the non-conforming residential dwelling will
contribute to the preservation of the existing housing stock and not result in
an increase in any non-conformity;
         (b)   The continuance of the non-conforming residential dwelling will
provide the occupants thereof with decent, safe and sanitary housing; and
         (c)   The continuance of the non-conforming residential dwelling will
be in general conformity with the town's objectives of providing affordable
housing opportunities for its citizens and/or encouraging historic
preservation.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.037 COMPLETION OF NON-CONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)    All non-conforming projects on which construction was begun at least
180 days before the effective date of this chapter as well as all non-
conforming projects that are at least 25% completed in terms of the total
expected cost of the project on the effective date of this chapter may be
completed in accordance with the terms of their permits, so long as these
permits were validly issued and remain unrevoked and unexpired. If a
development is designed to be completed in stages, this division (A) shall
apply only to the particular phase under construction.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, all work on any non-
conforming project shall cease on the effective date of this chapter, and all
permits previously issued for work on non-conforming projects shall be revoked
as of that date. Thereafter, work on non-conforming projects may begin or may
be continued only pursuant to a zoning, special use, or sign permit issued in
accordance with this section by the individual or board authorized by this
chapter to issue permits for the type of development proposed. The permit-
issuing authority shall issue such a permit if it finds that the applicant has,
in good faith, made substantial expenditures or incurred substantial binding
obligations or otherwise changed his or her position in some substantial way in
reasonable reliance on the land use law as it existed before the effective date
of this chapter and thereby would be unreasonably prejudiced if not allowed to
complete his or her project as proposed. In considering whether these findings
may be made, the permit-issuing authority shall be guided by the following, as
well as other relevant considerations.
      (1)   All expenditures made pursuant to a validly issued and unrevoked
building, zoning, sign or special use permit shall be considered as evidence of
reasonable reliance on the land use law that existed before this chapter became
effective.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(1) above, no expenditures made
more than 180 days before the effective date of this chapter may be considered
as evidence of reasonable reliance on the land use law that existed before this
chapter became effective. An expenditure is made at the time a party incurs a
binding obligation to make that expenditure.
      (3)   To the extent that expenditures are recoverable with a reasonable
effort, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having made those
expenditures. For example, a party shall not be considered prejudiced by having
made some expenditure to acquire a potential development site if the property
obtained is approximately as valuable under the new classification as it was
under the old, for the expenditure can be recovered by a resale of the
property.
      (4)   To the extent that a non-conforming project can be made conforming
and that expenditures made or obligations incurred can be effectively utilized
in the completion of a conforming project, a party shall not be considered
prejudiced by having made such expenditures.
      (5)   An expenditure shall be considered substantial if it is significant
both in dollar amount and in terms of:
         (a)   The total estimated cost of the proposed project; and
         (b)   The ordinary business practices of the developer.
      (6)   A person shall be considered to have acted in good faith if actual
knowledge of a proposed change in the land use law affecting the proposed
development site could not be attributed to him or her.
      (7)   Even though a person had actual knowledge of a proposed change in
the land use affecting a development site, the permit-issuing authority may
still find that he or she acted in good faith if he or she did not proceed with
his or her plans in a deliberate attempt to circumvent the effects of the
proposed ordinance. The permit-issuing authority may find that the developer
did not proceed in an attempt to undermine the proposed ordinance if it
determines that:
         (a)   At the time the expenditures were made, either there was
considerable doubt about whether any ordinance would ultimately be passed, or
it was not clear that the proposed ordinance would prohibit the intended
development; and
         (b)   The developer had legitimate business reasons for making
expenditures.
   (C)   The permit-issuing authority shall not consider any application for
the permit authorized by division (B) above that is submitted more than 60 days
after the effective date of this chapter. The permit-issuing authority may
waive this requirement for good cause shown, but in no case may it extend the
application deadline beyond one year.
   (D)   The permit-issuing authority shall establish expedited procedures for
hearing applications for permits under this section, so that construction work
is not needlessly interrupted.
   (E)   When it appears from the developer's plans or otherwise that the non-
conforming project was intended to be or reasonably could be completed in
stages, segments or other discrete units, the permit-issuing authority shall
not allow the non-conforming project to be constructed or completed in a
fashion that is larger or more extensive than is necessary to ensure reasonable
completion of the project.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.038 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)    No person may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the
extent of non-conformity of a non-conforming sign. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, no non-conforming sign may be enlarged or altered
in such a manner as to aggravate the non-conforming condition. Nor may
illumination be added to any non-conforming sign.
   (B)   A non-conforming sign may not be moved or replaced, except to bring
the sign into complete conformity with this chapter.
   (C)   If a non-conforming sign is destroyed by natural causes, it may not
thereafter be repaired, reconstructed or replaced, except in conformity with
all the provisions of this chapter, and the remnants of the former sign
structure shall be cleared from the land. For purposes of this section, a non-
conforming sign is "destroyed" if damaged to the extend that the cost of
restoring the sign to its former stature, or replacing it with an equivalent
sign, equals or exceeds 50% of its value as listed for tax purposes by the
County Tax Administrator.
   (D)   The message of a non-conforming sign may be changed so long as this
does not create new non-conformities (for example, by creating an off-premises
sign under circumstances where such a sign would not be allowed).
   (E)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, non-conforming signs
may be repaired and renovated so long as the cost of such work within any 12-
month period does not exceed the lesser of:
      (1)   Its fair market value; or
      (2)   Its most current tax value.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.050 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)    The following residential districts are hereby established: A-5, R-
20, R-15, R-10, RM-10, R-8, RM-8, R-6 and RM-6. The purpose of each residential
district is to secure for the persons who reside there a comfortable, healthy,
safe and pleasant environment in which to live, sheltered from incompatible and
disruptive activities that properly belong in non-residential districts.
   (B)   The A-5, R-20, R-15, R-10, RM-10, R-8, RM-8, R-6 and RM-6 Districts
differ primarily in the density and dimensional requirements as contained in §§
153.135 through
153.146 and in uses allowed as contained in §
153.080:
      (1)   The A-5 Agriculture District is designed to secure the agricultural
integrity of the areas so classified and to allow for low-density single-family
development on five-acre minimum lots. The uses encouraged in this district are
primarily agricultural or forestry related. Residential developments of five
units or more shall comply with the cluster subdivision provision outlined in §
153.145. For the A-5 Agriculture District, in promoting the general purposes of
this chapter, the specific intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage the conservation of the area's existing
agricultural and forestry resources and to promote the further expansion of
these land-related resources;
         (b)   To prohibit non-agricultural and non-forestry-related commercial
and industrial use of the land and to prohibit any other influx of uses likely
to render it undesirable for farms and low-density development;
         (c)   To encourage the sensitive incorporation of low-density single-
family or multi-family development into an agricultural and forested area in an
effort to maintain rural character and conserve valuable lands; and
         (d)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and cost for public services, such as police and fire
protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and cost if the district were developed solely for single-family
purposes.
      (2)   The R-20 Rural Residential District is designed to accommodate low-
density single-family dwellings with 20,000 square feet minimum lots that may
not be serviced with town sewer service or multi-family dwellings that are
serviced with town sewer. For the R-20 Residential District, in promoting the
general purposes of this chapter, the specific intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the
land for low density single-family or multi-family dwellings;
         (b)   To encourage the preservation of the rural character of the
land;
         (c)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other influx of uses likely to render it undesirable for low
density development;
         (d)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and cost for public services, such as police and fire
protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and cost if the district were developed solely for single-family
dwellings;
         (e)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in this district; and
         (f)   To encourage development to take place in a manner that promotes
a healthy environment.
      (3)   The R-15 Residential District is designed to accommodate low-
density single-family dwellings with 15,000 square feet minimum lots. For the
R-15 Residential District, in promoting the general purposes of this chapter,
the specific intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage the construction of and the continued use of the
land for single-family dwellings;
         (b)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of single-family dwellings in the district;
         (c)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in this district;
         (d)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor
streets other than normal traffic to serve residences on those streets; and
         (e)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
      (4)   The R-10 Residential District is designed to accommodate medium-
density single-family dwellings with 10,000 square feet minimum lots. For the
R-10 Residential District, in promoting the general purposes of this chapter,
the specific intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage the continued use of the land for residential
purposes;
         (b)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of single- and multi-family dwellings (see R-10A) in the district;
         (c)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in this district;
         (d)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor
streets other than normal traffic to serve residences on those streets; and
         (e)   To discourage any use which because of its character and size
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as police and
fire protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
      (5)   The RM-10 Residential District is designed to accommodate single-,
two- and multi-family dwellings with the same lot sizes and density as allowed
in the R-10 Residential District. In promoting the general purposes of this
chapter, the general intent of this district is the same as the R-10
Residential District.
      (6)   The R-8 Residential District is designed to accommodate single-
family dwellings with a minimum 8,000 square feet lot for one unit and 4,000
square feet for each additional unit; multi-family density maximum is
approximately 10.6 units per acre (based on a five-acre tract). For the R-
8 Residential District, in promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the
specific intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage the continued use of the land for residential
purposes;
         (b)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land and to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development or
continuation of residential uses in the district;
         (c)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in this district;
         (d)   To discourage any use which would generate traffic on minor
streets other than normal traffic to serve residences on those streets; and
         (e)   To discourage any use which because of its character or size
would create requirements and costs for public services such as police and fire
protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for residential
purposes.
      (7)   The RM-8 Residential District is designed to accommodate single-,
two- and multi-family dwellings with the same lot sizes and density as allowed
in the R-8 Residential District. In promoting the general purposes of this
chapter, the general intent of this district is the same as the R-8 Residential
District.
      (8)   The R-6 Residential District is designed to accommodate single-
family dwellings with 6,000 square feet minimum lots for one dwelling unit and
2,000 square feet required for each additional unit. For the R-6 Residential
District, in promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the specific
intent of this district is:
         (a)   To encourage continued use of the land for residential purposes
and certain compatible non-residential uses;
         (b)   To prohibit commercial and industrial use of the land; to
prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with the development
or continuation of residential structures in the district;
         (c)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in the district; and
         (d)   To discourage any use which because of its character or size
would generate traffic or require municipal services substantially in excess of
traffic and services that would exist if the district were developed solely for
residential uses.
      (9)   The RM-6 Residential District is designed to accommodate single-,
two- and multi-family dwellings with the same lot sizes and density as allowed
in the R-6 Residential District. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are also permitted and shall be subject to the standards described in §
153.113. In promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the general intent
of this district is the same as the R-6 Residential District.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall not affect property used for bona
fide farm purposes within the Town's extraterritorial jurisdiction; provided,
however, this chapter shall apply to the use of farm property for nonfarm
purposes. The provisions of G.S. § 160D-903 shall control whether the use of
property is for "bona fide farm purposes," and the provisions of such section
are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth herein verbatim.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.051 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
    The following commercial districts are hereby created to accomplish the
purposes and serve the objectives indicated.
   (A)   The C-1 Central Business District is established as the centrally
located trade and commercial service area of the community and region. The
regulations are designed to encourage the continued use of land for regional
trade and commercial service uses, to permit a concentrated, intensive
development of the permitted uses while maintaining a substantial relationship
between the intensity of land use and the capacity of utilities and streets.
Residential uses are also permitted. The use of this zoning classification, as
is expressly provided in the title of the district itself, is limited to the
Central Business District of the town, and any expansion thereof which might
take place. It shall not be applied to outlying commercial areas.
   (B)   The C-2 Commercial District is established as a district for offices,
personal services and the retailing of durable and convenience goods. This
district will generally be located on the town's major radial roads. Because
these districts will be located on high-volume traffic arteries and will be
subject to the view not only of local residents, but tourists and other non-
local motorists, ample off-street parking, controlled traffic movement and an
appropriate appearance including suitable planting shall be provided.
   (C)   The C-3 Neighborhood Business District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is to provide for the retailing of goods and
services to the nearby residential neighborhoods. The regulations of this
district are designed to limit the businesses which may be established therein
in order to protect the abutting residential areas.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.052 OFFICE AND INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
    The following office and institutional districts are hereby created to
accomplish the purposes and serve the objectives indicated.
   (A)   The C-4 Office and Institutional District is established as the
district in which the principal use of the land is for residences, certain
limited business and professional offices, and some institutional type uses,
such as hospitals, medical offices and clinics. In establishing this zoning
classification, the specific intent of this district is:
      (1)   To encourage use of land for institutional and office purposes;
      (2)   To prohibit commercial and industrial uses of land which would
generate large volumes of traffic, or would interfere with the use of land for
residential, office and institutional purposes;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses in this district; and
      (4)   To encourage the development of areas which will serve as a
transition zone between the more intensive business districts and less
intensive residential districts provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   The C-5 Professional Office District is established as the district in
which the principal use of the land is for certain professional offices,
governmental facilities and residences. In establishing the zoning
classification, the specific intent of this district is:
      (1)   To encourage the use of land for office, governmental facility and/
or residential purposes;
      (2)   To prohibit commercial and industrial uses of land which would
generate large volumes of traffic or would interfere with the use of land for
professional office, governmental facility and residential purposes;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses in this district; and
      (4)   To encourage the development of areas which will serve as a
transition zone between the more intensive commercial districts and less
intensive residential districts provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.053 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)    The industrial districts are designed to accommodate enterprises
engaged in the manufacturing, processing, creating, repairing, renovating,
painting, cleaning or assembling of goods, merchandise or equipment.
   (B)   In promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the following
industrial districts are hereby created to accomplish the purposes and serve
the objectives indicated.
      (1)   The I-1 Industrial District is established as a district in which
the principal use of land is for industries which can be operated in a
relatively clean and quiet manner and which will not be obnoxious to adjacent
residential or business districts; warehousing and wholesaling activities with
limited contact with the general public; and for certain outdoor amusement
facilities which generate large volumes of automobile traffic. The regulations
are designed to prohibit the use of land for heavy industry which should be
properly segregated and to prohibit any other use which would substantially
interfere with the development of industrial and wholesaling establishments in
the district. Residential uses in this district are permitted only upon the
issuance of a special use permit.
      (2)   The I-2 Industrial District is established as a district in which
the principal use of land is for warehousing, mixed industrial, heavy
industrial and heavy commercial type uses. For the I-2 Industrial District, in
promoting the general purposes of this chapter, the specific intent of this
district is:
         (a)   To provide appropriate zoning districts for existing industrial
type areas which are predominantly developed at the time of the adoption of
this chapter;
         (b)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not
be permitted as new uses in this district;
         (c)   To encourage the continued use of land for industrial purposes;
         (d)   To discourage residential and light commercial uses of land and
to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with the
continuation of permitted uses in the district; and
         (e)   To encourage heavy users of municipal services, especially water
and sewer service, to congregate in specific sections of the community so that
the town may effectively provide services to its industries without undue
expenditure of funds.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.054 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There are hereby established different planned unit developments
(PUDs) as described in this section. Each PUD is designed to accommodate a
range of residential, commercial or industrial uses either singularly or in
combination. The intent of a planned unit development is to provide the
necessary flexibility to encourage creative land development, while working
with the density and permissible use requirements mandated by the established
zoning districts and the town's standards for streets and other public
utilities. Planned unit developments may be constructed without complying with
minimum lot size, permissible yard coverage, yard dimensions and setback
requirements within the district in which the development is located. However,
all planned unit developments shall be located no less than 20 feet from any
adjoining property zoned for residential uses only, unless the use is
commercial or industrial in nature in which case the separation must be no less
than 100 feet. Such separations shall be accomplished through the use of
appropriate screening as detailed in §
153.234.
   (B)   The residential planned unit development (PUD) is designed to
accommodate those uses which would be permissible in one of the town's eight
residential zoning districts (A-5, R-20, R-15, R-10, R-10A, R-10S, R-8 and R-
6). All development must be in accordance with the regulations applicable to
the residential zoning district to which the particular PUD corresponds, except
as modified in division (A) above.
   (C)   The residential/commercial planned unit development (PUD) is designed
to accommodate a combination of residential and C-3 commercial uses. Within the
portion of a PUD that is developed for purposes permissible in a commercial
district, all development must be properly screened from adjoining residential
developments within the PUD in accordance with the standards outlined in §
153.234. All development must be in accordance with the regulations applicable
to the commercial district in which the particular PUD is to be located.
Additionally, no commercial use located within the residential/ commercial PUD
may be located within 100 feet of any residential district that is not a part
of the PUD.
   (D)   The commercial planned unit development (PUD) is designed to
accommodate those uses which would be permissible in one of the town's five
commercial zoning districts (C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, and C-5). All development must
be in accordance with the regulations applicable to the commercial district in
which the particular PUD zoning district is to be located.
   (E)   The commercial/industrial planned unit development (PUD) is designed
to accommodate a combination of commercial and light industrial uses. Within
the portion of the PUD that is developed for purposes permissible in an I-
1 Industrial District, all development must be properly screened from adjoining
commercial development in the PUD in accordance with the standards outlined in
§
153.234.
   (F)   The industrial planned unit development (PUD) is designed to
accommodate those uses which would be permissible in one of the town's two
industrial zoning districts (I-1 and I-2). All development must be in
accordance with the regulations applicable to the industrial district in which
the particular PUD is to be located.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
ZONING MAP
§ 153.065 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)    There shall be a map known and designated as the official zoning map,
which shall show the boundaries of all zoning and overlay districts within the
town's planning jurisdiction. This map shall be drawn on acetate or other
durable material from which prints can be made, shall be dated and shall be
kept in the Engineering Department. Copies of the official zoning map may be
reproduced by any method of reproduction that gives legible and permanent
copies and, when certified by the Town Clerk in accordance with G.S. § 160A-79,
shall be admissible into evidence and shall have the same force and effect as
would the original map.
   (B)   (1)   The official zoning map is the map which was adopted as a part
of the Zoning Ordinance, which was adopted on 3-5-1968, as amended to date by
ordinances adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the town. The latest edition of
said map bears the title:
         RICHLANDS ZONING MAP
         Revised February 19, 2013
         Produced by Onslow County GIS
      (2)   Amendments to the map shall be made and posted in accordance with §
153.066 of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Should the official zoning map be lost, destroyed or damaged,
the Director of Planning and Inspections may have a new map drawn on acetate or
other durable material from which prints can be made.
      (2)   No further Board authorization or action is required so long as
district boundaries are not changed in this process.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.066 AMENDMENTS TO OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Amendments to the official zoning map are accomplished using the
procedures set forth in §§
153.435 through
153.441.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall update the
official zoning map as soon as possible after amendments to it are adopted by
the Board.
      (2)   Upon entering any such amendment on the map, the Town Administrator
or his or her designee shall change the date of the map to indicate its latest
revision.
      (3)   New prints of the updated map may then be issued.
   (C)   No unauthorized person may alter or modify the official zoning map.
   (D)   (1)   The Planning Department shall keep copies of superseded prints
of the zoning map for historical reference.
      (2)   Additional copies of current and superseded zoning maps shall be
kept in the town vault.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
PERMISSIBLE USES
§ 153.080 TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE USES.
   (A)    There is hereby established a table of permissible uses, as
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   This table should be read in close conjunction with the definitions of
terms set forth in §
153.013 and the other interpretive provisions set out in this subchapter.
Table of Permitted Uses
    District
    Residential                                  Commercial          Industrial
Use A-5 R-2 0 R-1 5 R-10 RM- R-8 RM -8 R-6 RM- 6 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 C-5 I-1 I-2
                         10
Table of Permitted Uses
                                 District
                                 Residential                    Commercial     Industrial
                                      R- R- R- RM- R- RM R- RM- C- C- C- C- C- I-
Use                              A-5  2  1  10 10  8  -8 6  6   1  2  3  4  5  1  I-2
                                      0  5
Accessory structures             P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P  P  S  P  P  P  P
Accessory uses (see §           P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P  P  P
153.084)
Adult establishment                                                S           S
Agriculture-vege tative          P    P                  S  S
Agriculture-lives tock           S    S
Alcohol beverage packaged,                                         P           P
retail sales
Amusement, commercial outdoor                                      P           P
Amusement, commercial indoor                                    P  P
Advertising agency
Ambulance service/ rescue squad                                 P  P  P  P  P
(EMS)
Amusement park
Animal hospital/ veterinarian                                   P  P  P  P
clinic
Antique shops                                                   P  P  P
Apparel and footwear (sales)                                    P  P  P
Appliances (sales)                                              P  P
Appliances (service and repair)                                 P  P
Aquarium                                                        P  P
Architect companies                                             P  P  P  P
Art galleries                                                   P  P  P
Art supplies                                                    P  P
Arts and graphics services                                      P  P
Asphalt products manufacturing                                                 P
Auction house                                                      P
Auto, truck and motorcycle sales                                   P  S
Auto-detailing                                                     P  P
Automatic teller machine                                        P  P  P  P  P
Automobile salvage yard                                                        S
Automobiles manufacturing                                                      P
Automotive supplies                                             P  P  S
Bait and tackle sales                                           P  P  P
Bakeries                                                        P  P           P
Banks and finance companies                                     P  P
Barber and beauty shops                                         P  P  P  S  S
Baseball hitting ranges                                            P
Bed and breakfast                     S            S  S  S  S   S
Bedding and carpet manufacturing                                               P
Bicycle sales and service                                       P  P  P
Big box development                                                S           S
Billiard or pool halls                                          P  P
Blacksmith operations                                                          P
Blueprints and drafting supplies                                P  P
Boat (repairs, sales and                                           P           P
service)
Bicycle repair shops                                            P  P  P
Boat works manufacturing                                                       P
Bona fide farms (10 acres or     P    P
more)
Book and stationary stores                                      P  P  P
Bottling plants                                                                P  P
Bowling alley                                                      P
Brick, tile and pottery yards                                      P           P
(sales/service)
Building cleaning and                                              P           P
maintenance services
Building materials (sales)                                         P           P
Building over 50 feet in height
Bus garages                                                        P
Bus terminal                                                       P           P
Business offices                                                P  P     P  P
Cabinet shops                                                   P  P           P
Camera and photography supplies                                 P  P  P
Campgrounds and RV parks         P                                 P
Campsites                        P
Candy store                                                     P  P  P
Canvas goods manufacturing                                                     P
Car wash                                                           P
Cardboard containers                                                           P
manufacturing
Cemetery, private                S    S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
Cemetery, public                 S    S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
Chemical manufacturing                                                         P
Chicken houses                   S
Church (see “religious
institutions”)
Clothing and textiles production                                               P
Club and/or lodge
Coin-operated laundry                                           P  P  P
College/university/              P    P                            P  P
technical college
Community centers, private                                      S  P  S
Community centers, public                                       P  P  P  P  P
Computer and data processing                                    P  P
services
Concrete products production                                                   P
Contractor’s office                                              P           P
Convenience store                                               P  P  P
Correctional facilities          S                                             P
Cottage development
Country clubs (golf course/      P    P
private)
Country clubs (golf course/      P    P
public)
Crematorium                                                        S           S
Dairy, meat and seafood market                                  P  P  P
Dance schools                                                   P  P  P
Day care center                       S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S   P  P  P  P  P
Day care home (small)                 S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
Day care (large)                      S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
Delicatessen                                                    P  P  P  P  P
Department stores                                               P  P
Detective agency                                                P  P
Discount stores                                                    P
Dragstrip and race tracks                                                      P
Drinking establishments (bars/                                  P  P
lounge/pub )
Drug stores                                                     P
Dry cleaners                                                    S  P
Dry cleaning plants                                                            S
Dwelling (see “residence”)
Electrical appliances and                                                      P
equipment manufacturing
Electrical equipment sales                                         P           P
Electronic and electrical repair                                P  P  S
Electronic gaming establishment                                    S
Employment agency                                               P  P
Engineering company                                             P  P  P  P  P
Equipment rental                                                P  P           P
Exterminators                                                   P  P  P
Fabric stores                                                   P  P
Family care home                      S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S      P  P
Farm machinery manufacturing                                                   P  P
Farm supplies                                                   P  P
Farm/heavy equipment sales and                                  P  P
rental
Fertilizers manufacturing and                                      P           P
storage
Fiberglass manufacturing and                                                   P
storage
Firing range, indoor                                               P           P
Firing range, outdoor                                              S           P
Fishing lakes/ impoundments
Fitness centers                                                 P  P
Flea markets (indoor)                                           P  P
Flea markets (outdoor)                                             S
Floor covering stores (sales and                                P  P
installations)
Florists                                                        P  P  P
Flour and feed mills                                               P           P
Food and food products                                                         P
manufacturing
Food catering                                                   P  P  P
Food store (under 10,000 sq.                                    P  P  P
ft.)
Forestry service (public)        P                                             P
Funeral home w/o crematorium                             S  S   P  P  P
Furniture manufacturing                                                        P
Furniture and home furnishings                                  P  P
store
Furniture refinishing and repair                                   P           P
Gas or service station                                          P  P  S
Gift shops                                                      P  P  P
Glass and mirror shops (sales
and service)
Glass products manufacturing
Go cart track
Golf course, public/private      S    S
Golf driving ranges
Governmental maintenance                                           P        P
facility
Grading business
Greenhouse and/or nurseries                                        P  P        P  P
(commercial)
Greenhouse (private)                  P  P  P
Greenways
Guest house (private)                 P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P
Guest house (rental)                               S  S  S  S
Gun and ammunition sales                                        P  P
Gunsmith (repair shop)                                          P  P
Hardware stores                                                 P  P
Hatcheries                                                                     P
Health clubs                                                       P
Health practitioner’s office                                  P  P  S  P
Heating and refrigeration sales                                 P  P
and service
Heavy equipment manufacturing                                                     P
Hobby, toy and craft stores                                     P  P  P
Home occupation                  S    S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
Hookah, tobacco, vape and                                          S
similar establishments
Horse show/riding facility                                         P           P
Hosiery mills                                                                  P
Hospital (human)                                                   P
Hotels/motels                                                   P  P
Hunting preserves/hunt clubs     S
Ice manufacturing                                                              P
Industrial supplies and                                            P           P
equipment sales
Insurance agency                                                P  P  P  P
Interior designers                                              P  P  P  P
Jewelry stores                                                  P  P  P
Judicial and law enforcement                                       P     P  P
services
Junkyards and auto salvage yards                                               S
Kennel and animal shelters                                         S
Knitting mills                                                                 P
Landfills, construction,                                                          S
demolition
Landfills, L.C.I.D. site                                                          S
Landfills, sanitary                                                               S
Landscapers                                                     P  P  P
Lawn and garden care (service)                                  P  P  P        P
Lawn and garden supplies                                        P  P  P        P
Lawnmower repair                                                   P  P        P
Leather products manufacturing                                     P  P        P
Legal services                                                  P  P  P  P  P
Libraries                                                       P  P  P  P  P
Licensed massage/ bodywork                                      P  P  S
therapists
Linen and uniform supply                                        P  P
services
Liquor store (ABC store)                                           P  S
Livestock petting zoo
Livestock sales
Locksmith                                                       P  P  P
Log home manufacturing                                                            P
Luggage manufacturing                                                          P
Lumber and building materials                                      P
(sales)
Machine and welding shops                                          P           P
Machine tools manufacturing                                        S           P
Mail order office                                               P  P  P
Management consultants                                          P  P  P  P
Manufactured home/ recreational                                    P           P
vehicle sales
Manufactured home parks (see §  S
153.113)
Manufacturer’s showrooms                                         P
Meatpacking and poultry                                                           S
processing plants
Medical/dental clinics                                          P  P  P  P  P
Medical/dental laboratories                                     P  P  P  P  P
Metal fabrication plants                                                       P
Metal fabrication shop                                             P           P
Miniature golf                   S                                 P
Mining under 1 acre                   S
Mining and quarrying             S
Mini-warehouse                                                     P           P
Monument works/sales                                            P  P           P
Motor vehicle body and paint                                       P           P
shop
Motor vehicle repair shop/                                      P  P  S
service/tow ing
Motorcross track                 S
Movie theaters (indoor)                                         P  P
Museums                                                         P  P  P  P  P
Music stores                                                    P  P  P
News syndicates (publisher)                                        P
Newsstands                                                      P  P  P  P
Novelty and souvenir stores                                     P  P  P
Nursing, convalescent, assisted                                    P           S
living facility
Oil and gasoline bulk storage                                                     S
Open storage facility                                              S           P
Optician and optical supply                                     P  P  P  P  P
store
Outdoor advertising signs (off-                                    S
premise)
Paint and wallpaper stores                                      P  P  P
Paints, varnishes, finishes                                                    S
manufacturing
Parking lot (commercial)                                        P  P
Paving and grading operation                                       P
Paper goods manufacturing
Par 3 golf course                                                  P
Parks and playgrounds (public)   S    S  S  S  S   P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  P
Pawn shop                                                       S  P
Pet shop                                                        P  P  P
Pharmaceuticals manufacturing                                                  S
Photocopying services                                           P  P  P
Photofinishing laboratories                                                    S
Photography services and studios                                P  P  P
Pillow manufacturing                                                           P
Plastic products manufacturing                                                    S
Plumbing and heating supplies                                   P  P           P
Post office                                                     P  P  P     P
Precision instruments                                                          P
manufacturing
Private recreation clubs (non-                     S  S  S  S      P  S
adult)
Processing plants                                                                 S
Produce sales                                                   P  P  P
Public relations services                                       P  P     P  P
Public utility facility                            P  P  P  P
(substation)
Publishing and printing                                         P  P  P  P
Radio and television repair                                     P  P
Radio and television studios                                       P
Real estate office and services                                 P  P  P  P
Recycling collection center                                                    S  S
Recycling facility                                                                S
Recycling plant                                                                   S
Refineries
Rehabilitation facility                                         S  P  P  P  P
Religious institutions (See §        P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P  P  P     P
153.106)
Rental of vehicles                                              P  P
Research activities
Residence, duplex                     S        P   S  P  P  P
Residence, dwellings located                                    P
over a business
Residence, manufactured home     P    S                  S  P
(Class A)
Residence, manufactured home                                S
(Class B)
Residence, multi-family                        S   S  P  P  P   S
Residence, multi-family                        S   S  P  P  P
condominium
Residence, multi-family                        S   S  P  P  P
townhouses
Residence, single-family         P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P  P  P
detached
Residential development sales         P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P
(office on-site)
Restaurant (walk-in, fast-food)                                    P  S
(with drive through)
Restaurant (walk-in) (without                                   P  P  P  S
drive through)
Roadside stand                                                     S
Rodeo                            S
Saddleries (repairs, sales and                                  P  P
service)
Sanitarium and mental                                                       S
institutions
Sawmills                                                                       P
School facilities, permanent     P    P  S  S  P   P  P  P  P   S  P  P  P
(public or private)
School facilities, mobile        S    S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S   S  S  S  S
(public or private)
Seamstress shop                                                 P  P
Secondhand store/swap shops/                                    P  P
thrift shops
Septic services                                                    P
Sheet metal shops                                                  P           P
Sheriff Department and jail
facility
Shoe repair and shining                                         P  P  P
Shoe stores                                                     P  P  P
Sign painting                                                   P  P
Skating rinks                                                      P
Slaughterhouse                                                                    S
Small motor repair                                              P  P  P
Sporting goods                                                  P
Springs manufacturing                                                          P
                                 See
                                 Sec
Stable (private)                 tion P  P
                                 9-2-
                                 159
                                 See
                                 Sec
Stable (public)                  tion S  S
                                 9-2-
                                 159
Swimming pool                    P    P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P
Swine farm (see “agricultural-
live stock”)
Supermarkets (over 10,000 sq.                                      P  S
ft.)
Surveying company                                               P  P  P  P
Tattoo parlors                                                  S  S
Taxi dispatch stand                                                P
Taxi dispatch stand and garage                                     P
Tailoring and dressmaking shops                                 P  P
Telephone call centers                                             P
Tire recapping shops                                               P
Tobacco products manufacturing
Tree service
Truck, farm equipment, heavy                                    P  P
equipment (sales and service)
Truck/freight terminal (6 or                                       P
fewer trucks)
Truck/freight terminal (more                                       S
than 6 trucks)
Turkey houses (see
“agricultural-live stock”)
Upholstering shops                                              P  P
Utility company operation center                                   P
Vacuum cleaner repair                                           P  P
Variety stores                                                  P  P  P
Vending companies                                                  P
Volunteer Fire Department                                       P  P
Warehousing                                                        P           P
Watch, clock, jewelry repair                                    P  P  P
Wholesale distribution                                             P
Wholesale store                                                    P
Winery                           S
Wireless communication towers    S                                 P           S  S
Woodworking shops                                               P  P
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2013-02, passed 10-8-2013; Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-
13-2018; Ord. 2021-05, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Ord.
2022-07, passed 11-8-2022)
§ 153.081 USE OF THE DESIGNATIONS P, S, C IN TABLE OF PERMISSIBLE USES.
   (A)   Subject to §
153.082, when used in connection with a particular use in the table of
permissible uses, the letter "P" means that the use is permissible in the
indicated zone with a zoning permit issued by the Zoning Administrator. The
letter "S" means a special use permit must be obtained from the Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   Subject to §
153.082, the use of the designation "P, S" means that a zoning permit must be
obtained if the development is located on a lot of two acres or less, while a
special use permit must be obtained for developments in excess of two acres.
   (C)   When used in connection with multi-family residences the designation
"P, S" means that such developments of less than five dwelling units must be
pursuant to a zoning permit and developments of five or more dwelling units
need a special use permit.
   (D)   Subject to §
153.082, use of the designation "P, S" means that a zoning permit must be
obtained if the development is located on a lot of:
      (1)   Two acres or less in the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5 or C-5A Zones; or
      (2)   Two acres or less in all other zones, while a special use permit
must be obtained for all developments on lots in excess of these limits.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.082 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT JURISDICTION OVER USES OTHERWISE PERMISSIBLE WITH
A ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, whenever the
table of permissible uses (interpreted in the light of § 153.081 and the other
provisions of this subchapter) provides that a use in a non-residential zone is
permissible with a zoning permit, a special use permit shall nevertheless be
required if the Zoning Administrator finds that the proposed use would have an
extraordinary impact on neighboring properties or the general public. In making
this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall consider, among other
factors:
      (1)   Whether the use is proposed for an undeveloped or previously
developed lot;
      (2)   Whether the proposed use constitutes a change from one principal
use classification to another;
      (3)   Whether the use is proposed for a site that poses peculiar traffic
or other hazards or difficulties; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed use is substantially unique or is likely to
have impacts that differ substantially from those presented by other uses that
are permissible in the zoning district in question.
   (B)   Said determination by the Zoning Administrator shall be rendered in
writing and shall include findings based on the above-mentioned factors.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.083 PERMISSIBLE USES AND SPECIFIC EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   (1)    The presumption established by this chapter is that all
legitimate uses of land are permissible within at least one zoning district in
the town's planning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Therefore, because the list of permissible uses set forth in the
table of permissible uses cannot be all-inclusive, those uses that are listed
may be interpreted broadly to include other uses that have similar impacts to
the listed uses in terms of traffic volume generation, emphasis on vehicular or
walk-in trade, number of employees and nature of business operations.
   (B)   (1)   All uses that are not listed in the table of permissible uses
and that do not have impacts that are similar to those of the listed uses are
prohibited.
      (2)   Nor shall the table of permissible uses be interpreted to allow a
use in one zoning district when the use in question is more closely related to
another specified use that is permissible in other zoning districts.
   (C)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions, the
following uses are specifically prohibited in all districts:
      (1)   Stockyards, slaughterhouses, rendering plants;
      (2)   Use of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle as a residence,
temporary or permanent; and
      (3)   The use of any motor vehicle parked on a lot as a structure in
which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold or stored, any service is
performed, or other business is conducted (as defined in
Ch. 114 of this code of ordinances); except that the following shall not be
prohibited solely by this division (C)(3):
         (a)   Retail sales of food products and goods manufactured, created or
produced by the seller; and
         (b)   Sale of food products on property by persons authorized by or
acting on behalf of the town.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.084 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   (1)   The Table of Permissible Uses (§
153.080) classifies different principal uses according to their different
impacts. Whenever two activities or uses occur on the same lot and one use
constitutes only an incidental or insubstantial part of the total activity that
takes place on a lot; or is commonly associated with the principal use and
integrally related to it, then that use which meets the criteria enumerated in
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) below may be regarded as accessory to the principal
use and may be carried on underneath the umbrella of the permit issued for the
principal use; provided that the accessory use is of equal or lesser zoning
classification.
      (2)   For example, a swimming pool/tennis court complex is customarily
associated with and integrally related to a residential subdivision or multi-
family development and would be regarded as accessory to such principal uses,
even though such facilities, if developed apart from a residential development,
would require a special use permit.
   (B)   For purposes of interpreting division (A) above:
      (1)   A use may be regarded as incidental or insubstantial if it is
incidental or insubstantial in and of itself or in relation to the principal
use; and
      (2)   To be "commonly associated" with a principal use means that the
association of the accessory use with such principal use takes place with
sufficient frequency to establish a common acceptance of their relatedness.
   (C)   Without limiting the generality of divisions (A) and (B) above, the
following activities are specifically regarded as accessory to residential
principal uses so long as they satisfy the general criteria set forth above:
      (1)   Hobbies or recreational activities of a non-commercial nature;
except that, the repair of automobiles owned by persons who do not reside on
the premises, is prohibited;
      (2)   The renting out of one room within a single-family residence (which
one room does not in itself constitute a separate dwelling unit) to not more
than one person who is not part of the family that resides in the single-family
dwelling; and
      (3)   Yard sales or garage sales, so long as such sales are not conducted
on the same lot for more than three days (whether consecutive or not) during
any 90-day period.
   (D)   Without limiting the generality of divisions (A) and (B) above, the
following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a residential
principal use and are prohibited in residential districts:
      (1)   Parking outside a substantially enclosed structure of more than
four motor vehicles between the front building line of the principal building
and the street on any lot used for purposes that fall within the principal use
of a residence (single- or multi-family); and
      (2)   Parking and storage outside a substantially enclosed structure of
any motor home boat or other recreational vehicle between the front building
line of the principal building and the street on which the lot fronts. The
prohibited vehicles include trailers and commercial vehicles. As used herein,
the term "commercial vehicles" does not include pick-up trucks.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.085 PERMISSIBLE USES NOT REQUIRING PERMITS.
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no zoning or special
use permit is necessary for the following uses (except when located in overlay
districts where certain design guidelines must be met):
   (A)   Streets and street signs;
   (B)   Electric power, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water and
sewer lines, wires or pipes, together with supporting poles or structures,
located within a public right-of-way; and
   (C)   Neighborhood utility facilities may be located within public right-of-
way with the permission of the owner (state or town) of the right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.086 CHANGE IN USE.
   (A)   (1)    A substantial change in use of property occurs whenever the
essential character or nature of the activity conducted on a lot changes.
      (2)   This occurs whenever:
         (a)   The change involves a change from one principal use category to
another;
         (b)   If the original use is a combination use (§
153.088) or planned unit development (§
153.089), the relative proportion of space devoted to the individual principal
uses that comprise the combination use or planned unit development use changes
to such an extent that the parking requirements for the overall use are
altered;
         (c)   If the original use is a combination use or planned unit
development use, the mixture of types of individual principal uses that
comprise the combination use or planned unit development use changes; and
         (d)   If there is only one business or enterprise conducted on the lot
(regardless of whether that business or enterprise consists of one individual
principal use or a combination use), that business or enterprise moves out, and
a different type of enterprise moves in, and is found under the same principal
use or combination use category as the previous type of business. For example,
if there is only one building on a lot and a florist shop that is the sole
tenant of the building moves out and is replaced by a clothing store that
constitutes a change in use even though both tenants fall within the scope of
general retail. However, if the florist shop were replaced by another florist
shop, that would not constitute a change in use since the type of business or
enterprise would not have changed. Moreover, if the florist shop moved out of a
rented space in a shopping center and was replaced by a clothing store, that
would not constitute a change in use since there is more than one business on
the lot and the essential character of the activity conducted on that lot
(shopping center - combination use) has not changed.
   (B)   A mere change in the status of property from unoccupied to occupied or
vice versa does not constitute a change in use. Whether a change in use occurs
shall be determined by comparing the two active uses of the property without
regard to any intervening period during which the property may have been
unoccupied, unless the property has remained unoccupied for more than 180
continuous days or there has been no affirmative attempt or expressed intention
on the part of the property owner to rent, sell or use the property.
   (C)   A mere change in ownership of a business or enterprise shall not be
regarded as a change in use.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.087 COMBINATION USES.
   (A)    When a combination use comprises two or more principal uses that
require different types of permits (zoning or special use), then the permit
authorizing the combination use shall be:
      (1)   A special use permit if any of the principal uses combined requires
a special use permit; and
      (2)   A zoning permit in all other cases.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, when a combination use consists of a
residential subdivision and a multi-family development, the total density
permissible on the lot shall be determined by having the developer indicate on
the plans the portion of the total lot that will be developed for each purpose
and calculating the density for each portion as if it were a separate lot.
   (C)   (1)   Notwithstanding §§
153.136(B) and
153.137(B), whenever:
         (a)   A combination use consists of a standard residential subdivision
and a multi-family development; and
         (b)   The subdivided portion of the tract contains lots that exceed
the minimum lot size requirements set forth in §
153.136, but that do not exceed an average of 20,000 square feet, then the
density of the portion of the tract developed for multi-family purposes may be
increased beyond the permissible density calculated in accordance with division
(B) below.
      (2)   The increase in density shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   The minimum lot size requirement for the applicable zoning
district shall be subtracted from each lot that exceeds the minimum lot size,
and the remainders totaled.
         (b)   The sum derived from the calculation in division (C)(1)(a) above
shall be divided by the minimum lot size requirement. Fractions shall be
rounded to the nearest whole number.
         (c)   The product of the calculation in division (C)(1)(b) above shall
yield the number of additional multi-family dwelling units that may be located
within the portion of the tract developed for multi-family purposes.
   (D)   When a residential use is combined with a non-residential use in a
commercial district, the lot used for the residential use must have at least
the minimum square footage required for the residential use alone.
   (E)   When two principal uses are combined, the total amount of parking
required for the combination use shall be determined by calculating the amount
of parking required for each individual principal use according to the relative
amount of space occupied by that use.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.088 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)    In a planned unit development, the developer may make use of the land
for any purpose authorized in the particular PUD in which the land is located,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. Section
153.054 describes the various types of PUDs.
   (B)   Within any tract in a residential zoning district developed as a
residential/commercial PUD, not more than 10% of the total tract area may be
developed for purposes that are permissible only in a commercial zoning
district. Likewise, within any tract in a commercial zoning district developed
as a commercial/industrial PUD, not more than 10% of the total tract area may
be developed for purposes that are permissible in an I-1 Zoning District.
   (C)   The plans for the proposed planned unit development shall indicate the
particular portions of the tract that the developer intends to develop for
purposes permissible in a residential district (as applicable), purposes
permissible in a commercial district (as applicable), and purposes permissible
only in an industrial district (as applicable). For purposes of determining the
substantive regulations that apply to the planned unit development, each
portion of the tract so designated shall then be treated as if it were a
separate district, zoned to permit, respectively, residential, commercial or
industrial uses. However, only one permit (a planned unit development permit)
shall be issued for the entire development. Said permit may be issued by the
Zoning Administrator following subdivision general plan approval.
   (D)   The non-residential portions of any planned unit development may not
be occupied until all of the residential portions of the development are
completed or their completion is assured by any of the mechanisms provided in
§§
153.340 through
153.363 to guarantee completion. The purpose and intent of this provision is to
ensure that the planned unit development procedure is not used, intentionally
or unintentionally, to create non-residential uses in areas generally zoned for
residential uses except as part of an integrated and well-planned, primarily
residential, development.
   (E)   The submission and approval of any PUD as defined and authorized in §
153.054 shall follow the same submission procedures as a major subdivision as
regulated in the subdivision regulations of the town. The adoption of any PUD
defined and authorized by §
153.054 is considered an amendment to this chapter and shall follow the
requirements set forth in §§
153.435 through
153.441.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.089 MORE SPECIFIC USE CONTROLS.
   Whenever a development could fall within more than one use classification in
the Table of Permissible Uses (§
153.080), the classification that most closely and most specifically describes
the development controls. For example, a small doctor's office or clinic
clearly falls within the 3.110 classification (office and service operations
conducted entirely indoors and designed to attract customers or clients to the
premises). However, classification 3.130 (physicians and dentist offices and
clinics occupying not more than 10,000 square feet of gross floor area) more
specifically covers this use and therefore is controlling.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.090 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Encroachments permitted into required yard setbacks.
      (1)   Interior lots. Carports, porches, decks, canopies, stairways,
completely open (except for reasonable supports) may encroach into required
side and rear yards by 50%.
      (2)   Corner lots. Carports, porches, decks, canopies, stairways,
completely open (except for reasonable supports) may encroach by 75% into any
yard other than the right-of-way yard setback.
      (3)   Handicap ramps. Handicap ramps may encroach into the required
front, side and/or rear setbacks by 50%. Where no other practical alternative
is available, encroachments greater than 50% may be allowed by the Zoning
Administrator when an existing development has insufficient land available, an
unsafe condition would be created or other extenuating circumstances exist.
Whenever flexibility is granted, the reasons for granting the flexibility shall
be documented. In addition, the owner of the property shall provide a written
statement agreeing to remove the ramp once the person with disabilities no
longer needs the ramp.
      (4)   Definition. In defining carports, three sides must be left open;
decorative walls, planters, shrubbery or other obstructions are permitted as
part of the carport or adjacent to the carport as long as it does not exceed
three feet in height and a minimum of 50% of the area is unobstructed.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles may be stored on any lot
in any residential zoning district; provided, they are not stored in the
required setback for front yards. Recreational vehicles, while being stored in
this area, cannot be used for sleeping, utility, office, material storage and
the like.
   (C)   Impeding vision. On a corner lot in any residential district, nothing
shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as
materially to impede vision between a height of three and ten feet above the
centerline grades of the intersection streets; and in the area bounded by the
centerlines of intersecting streets and a line joining points along said
centerlines 80 feet from the point of the intersection.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.091 OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)    In the interest of public safety and particularly the safety of
children, all outdoor swimming pools in the town having a depth of water of 18
inches or greater at its deepest point shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or wall not less than four feet in height. Such wall shall be so
constructed as not to have any openings larger than six inches in height,
except where width is five inches or less, the height may extend full height of
fence or wall. If a picket fence is erected, the width between pickets shall
not exceed five inches. A fence or wall may be made of any material, wood,
metal, wire, masonry, concrete, tile and plastic material, or any combination
of these or other suitable materials if the openings in the fences do not
exceed the maximum width described above. A dwelling house or accessory
building may be used as part of such enclosure. All gates or doors opening
through such fence or wall shall have self-closing and self-latching devices
for keeping the gate or door closed at all times when not in actual use; except
that, the door of dwelling which furnished part of the enclosure need not be so
equipped.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may make modifications with respect to the
height, nature or location of the fence, wall, gates or latches, in individual
cases, upon a showing of good cause provided the protection as sought hereunder
is not reduced thereby. The Zoning Administrator may permit other protective
devices or structures to be used so long as the degree of protection afforded
by the substitute devices or structures is not less than the protection
afforded by the wall, fence, gate and latch described herein.
   (C)   Any pool that is not in use for more than 30 days shall either be
drained or covered.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.092 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
    The height limitations contained in the dimensional requirements by
districts do not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.105 SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   In deciding whether a permit for a special event should be denied for
any reason specified in §§
153.340 through
153.363, the Zoning Administrator shall ensure that, if the special event is
conducted at all:
      (1)   The hours of operation allowed shall be compatible with the uses
adjacent to the activity;
      (2)   The amount of noise generated shall not disrupt the activities of
adjacent land uses;
      (3)   The applicants shall guarantee that all litter generated by the
special event be removed at no expense to the town; and
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall not grant the permit unless it finds
that the parking generated by the event can be accommodated without undue
disruption to or interference with the normal flow of traffic or with the right
of adjacent and surrounding property owners.
   (B)   In cases where it is deemed necessary, the Zoning Administrator may
require the applicant to post a bond to ensure compliance with the conditions
of the zoning permit.
   (C)   If the permit applicant requests the town to provide extraordinary
service or equipment, or if the Town Manager otherwise determines that
extraordinary services or equipment should be provided for the public health or
safety, the applicant shall be required to pay a fee sufficient to reimburse
the town for the costs of these services. This requirement shall not apply if
the event has been anticipated in the budget process and sufficient funds have
been included in the budget to cover the costs incurred.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.106 PLACES OF WORSHIP.
   (A)    Places of worship, churches and religious institutions are permitted
in any residential zoning district in the town unless otherwise regulated by
this chapter. However, no place of worship, church or religious institution
shall be permitted to be located in any pre-existing storefront buildings
located in the C-1 Commercial District.
   (B)   Moreover, places of worship located in zoning classifications other
than the town's C-1 and C-2 Commercial Districts shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Height limitations of the zone in which it is located shall be
observed; provided, however, the spire, belfry or other similar architectural
features are exempt.
      (2)   The parking requirements of §§
153.205 through
153.217 shall be observed.
      (3)   Open space and planting requirements shall be in accordance with §
153.160 governing non- residential developments.
      (4)   Required setbacks shall be: front yard, 35 feet; side yards (each),
25 feet; rear yard, 25 feet. No parking shall be located in front yards. Inside
and rear yards, parking shall not be in any area required for a setback unless
densely planted buffer strips or other fencing is installed to protect abutting
property from noise, dust, glare of lights and other nuisances; then parking
may be permitted, but no closer than ten feet to the property line.
      (5)   Places of worship located within a residential zoning district
shall be permitted a maximum sign surface area of 32 square feet. In the case
of freestanding signs in a residential zoning district, said signs shall not
exceed a height of ten feet. Signs for places of worship found in a commercial
zoning district shall be the same as prescribed in that particular zoning
district as outlined in §§
153.180 through
153.192.
      (6)   Places of worship shall install a semi-opaque screen, as defined in
§
153.233, along all property lines that abut residential properties.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.107 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
   (A)    Public and private schools (permanent facilities) are permitted in
any residential zoning district in the town, except for mobile school
facilities as regulated in the Table of Permitted Uses.
   (B)   However, the following requirements must be fulfilled:
      (1)   All height limitations on the zoning district in which it is
located shall be observed; provided that, flagpoles, electronic gear and
mechanical appurtenances are exempt from the height restrictions.
      (2)   In addition to the off-street parking requirements outlined in §§
153.205 through
153.217 of this chapter, there shall be one off-street parking space of
appropriate size provided for each bus to be used for the transportation of
students to and from school and/or extracurricular activities.
      (3)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided for the
aforementioned buses.
      (4)   Off-street loading facilities shall be provided for private
vehicles and be so designed that its use is convenient with points of ingress
and egress on a major street.
      (5)   No school building may be closer than 150 feet to any property
line, unless an opaque screen as defined in §§
153.230 through
153.236 of this chapter is provided in which case said school building may be
constructed no closer than 75 feet to a property line.
      (6)   Public and private schools signs shall follow the regulations as
outlined in §§
153.180 through
153.192. However, free-standing signs located along the public right-of-way
shall be limited to ground signs as prescribed in §
153.187(E).
      (7)   That the site plan must be approved by the State Board of Public
Instruction, Division of School Planning, in the case of public schools or in
the case of private or parochial schools meet the requirements of the division
of school planning.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2017-01, passed 4-11-2017; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
§ 153.108 PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL FACILITIES OF A NON-
COMMERCIAL NATURE.
    Such uses are permitted in any zoning district in the town under the
following restrictions:
   (A)   Off-street parking adequate to meet the needs of the people who will
be using the facilities shall be provided. (See §
153.207.)
   (B)   Parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities of a non-
commercial nature located within a residential zoning district shall be allowed
signage; provided, such signage shall not exceed 32 square feet and, in the
case of freestanding signs, shall not exceed a height of ten feet.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.109 CHILD CARE HOMES.
    The following specific provisions shall be met as minimum standards prior
to the approval of any child care home as a special use in a residential zoning
district.
   (A)   Off-street parking adequate to meet the needs of the people who will
be using the facilities shall be provided. (See §
153.207.)
   (B)   Child care homes located within a residential zoning district shall be
allowed signage; provided, such signage does not exceed a total sign surface
area of 12 square feet and, in the case of freestanding signs, shall not exceed
a height of ten feet.
   (C)   Child care homes located within a residential zoning district shall
meet the requirements of the zoning district in which they are placed in terms
of setback, lot coverage, density and the like.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.110 CHILDREN’S DAY CARE FACILITIES.
     The following specific provisions shall be met as minimum standards prior
to the approval of any children's day care facility as a special use in a
residentially zoned area.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for the facility shall be 14,000 square feet.
   (B)   Building setback (minimum) from any public or private street shall be
30 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard setback (minimum) shall be 35 feet.
   (D)   Side yard setback (minimum) shall be 20 feet.
   (E)   Corner lot setback (minimum) from interior lot lines shall be 20 feet.
   (F)   Minimum distance to another children's day care facility, whether
conforming or non- conforming, shall be 500 feet.
   (G)   The minimum number of paved off-street parking spaces shall be two
with one additional space added for each employee.
   (H)   There shall be a paved off-street loading and unloading area for use
at the child care facility. This space shall be in addition to the minimum
paved off-street parking areas. Each facility must have sufficient paved
driveway to accommodate at least two autos at one time for the purpose of
loading and unloading passengers.
   (I)   All children's outside play areas shall be enclosed with a fence. The
fence must be at least six feet high.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.111 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
    Where permitted by this chapter, bed and breakfast establishments shall
meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Dwelling cannot provide more than three bedrooms for overnight guests.
   (B)   One parking space per guest room must be provided off the street in
addition to two off street parking spaces for the principal occupants. The
parking area must not encroach beyond the side, and rear setback lines of the
zoning district.
   (C)   Bed and breakfast establishments located within a residential zoning
district shall be permitted a maximum sign surface area of 32 square feet. Said
signs shall also not exceed a height of ten feet.
   (D)   No pulsating, flashing, oscillating or other types of attention
getting devices shall be permitted.
   (E)   No outdoor activities other than those associated with the normal
activities of a single-family home are permitted.
   (F)   The use must annually meet the health standards of the state and
county government and proof will be presented to the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   The dwelling must be the primary residence of the owner.
   (H)   A buffer of vegetation which will grow to a height of four feet must
surround the parking area on three sides.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.112 HORSE STABLES.
   (A)    Private horse stables shall be permitted in the A-5 and R-20 Zoning
Districts. Public horse stables shall be permitted by special use in the A-
5 and R-20 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   Both private and public horse stables shall meet the following minimum
requirements.
      (1)   Storage areas for manure, feed and tack supplies shall be provided
for each stable according to the following schedule:
 
1 to 3 horses   500 square feet
4 to 8 horses   1,000 square feet
9 to 12 horses  2,000 square feet
13 to 16 horses 3,000 square feet
17 to 20 horses 4,000 square feet
21 plus horses  6,000 square feet
 
      (2)    The storage areas for manure shall be maintained away from the
stalls and enclosed pasture area.
      (3)   A minimum stall size of 120 square feet must be provided for each
horse on site.
      (4)   The minimum area requirements for both private and public stables
are as follows.
         (a)   The minimum lot size is two acres.
         (b)   The minimum pasture area is two acres for one to seven horses
and an additional 1.25 acres for each horse after seven.
         (c)   The minimum setbacks for pasture areas are 100 feet from
dwellings and 20 feet from property lines.
         (d)   Stalls shall be at least 200 feet from dwellings and 50 feet
from property lines.
         (e)   Manure and feed storage shall be at least 400 feet from
dwellings and 100 feet from property lines.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.113 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES LOCATED BOTH INSIDE AND
OUTSIDE OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS WITHIN THE ZONING JURISDICTION OF THE TOWN.
   (A)    Unless otherwise specifically provided, or unless otherwise clearly
required by the context, the words and phrases defined below shall have the
meaning set forth when used in this section. If a word or phrase used in this
section is not defined by this section or elsewhere in this chapter, to the
extent such word or phrase is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition shall
control.
   (B)   Manufactured home. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145(7).
      (1)   Manufactured home, Class A.
         (a)   A manufactured home that:
            1.   Is not constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
State Uniform Residential Building Code as amended;
            2.   Is composed of two or more components, each of which was
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported
to the home site;
            3.   Meets or exceeds the construction standards of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development; and
            4.   Conforms to the following appearance criteria:
               a.   The manufactured home has a minimum width, as assembled on
the site, of 20 feet;
               b.   The pitch of the manufactured home's roof has a minimum
nominal vertical rise of three inches for each 12 inches of horizontal run and
the roof is finished with asphalt or fiberglass shingles;
               c.   A continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall, unpierced
except for required ventilation and access, is installed under the manufactured
home;
               d.   The primary entrance has a landing which is no smaller than
three feet by three feet in size; and
               e.   The tongue, axles, transporting lights and towing apparatus
are removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy.
         (b)   Class A manufactured homes are allowed as a permitted use in
manufactured home parks and the A-5, R-6 and RM-6 Zoning Districts. Please
refer to the Table of Uses for a complete listing of permitted locations.
      (2)   Manufactured home, Class B. A manufactured home constructed after
7-1-1996 that meets or exceeds the construction standards by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development and which is at least 14 feet wide
but less than 20 feet wide. A Class B may not satisfy all the criteria
necessary to qualify as a Class A manufactured home, but a Class B manufactured
home must have a continuous, permanent masonry curtain wall, unpierced except
for required ventilation and access. Class B manufactured homes are only
permitted in manufactured home parks and the A-5 and RM-6 Zoning Districts.
      (3)   Manufactured home, Class C. Any manufactured home that is less than
14 feet wide or does not meet the definition of a modular home or a travel
trailer. Class C manufactured homes are not allowed in any zoning district for
any use.
      (4)   Manufactured home park. A residential use in which three or more
Class A or B manufactured homes are located on a single lot or tract. See §
153.114 for specific provisions related to manufactured home parks.
Manufactured home parks are only permitted, by special use permit, in the A-
5 Zoning Districts.
      (5)   Modular home. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the
standards set forth in the State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported to the
building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Modular homes are
allowed in all zoning districts, except I-2.
      (6)   Travel trailer. A small house trailer on wheels, usually drawn by a
passenger automobile or small truck, which is equipped for temporary use as a
dwelling while traveling and meant for short-term occupancy and which may also
be moved on short notice.
   (B)   Unless hereinabove authorized, or hereinbelow authorized, it shall be
unlawful for any person to place or maintain any Class A or Class B
manufactured home used for living, sleeping, business or utility purposes on
any premises in the town's zoning jurisdiction, other than in a manufactured
home park duly permitted by this chapter and maintained pursuant to the
provisions of this section, except:
      (1)   That one travel trailer not to exceed 30 feet in length may be
parked or stored in the rear yard of any lot; provided that, no living quarters
shall be maintained, nor any business conducted therein while such trailer is
so parked or stored;
      (2)   That manufactured homes may be parked in manufactured home sales
lots for the purpose of inspection or sale within a district in which such use
is permitted; provided that, no living quarters or offices shall be maintained
in any of the manufactured homes so parked;
      (3)   That manufactured homes used in connection with and by owners and/
or employees of circuses, fairs, carnivals, duly authorized by the town and
complying with the requirements of this chapter may be permitted by a special
14-day permit issued by the Zoning Administrator. Such manufactured homes, if
they are located on the same lot as the circus, or carnival, or fair, may be
used temporarily for living quarters of the owners and/or employees of the
circuses, fairs or carnivals. If such manufactured homes are not located on the
same lot, then they must be located in a manufactured home park;
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a Class A or
Class B manufactured home, as defined in this chapter, and in G.S. § 160D-910,
the standards established therein, and otherwise, by state law and regulations,
may be placed and maintained upon a lot in accordance with the Table of
Permissible Uses, found in §
153.080, for use as a single-family dwelling, under the same terms and
conditions as if it were a house being constructed thereon, subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   The installation and set-up shall comply with State Building
Code;
         (b)   The primary entrance, defined as an entrance leading to a living
room, foyer, vestibule, kitchen or other common area, shall face on a public
improved street;
         (c)   No manufactured home shall be used solely for storage purposes;
         (d)   No owner or manufactured home dealer may deliver, or cause
anyone, including his, her or its set-up contractor to deliver, a manufactured
home to a site within the planning jurisdiction of the town until the
manufactured home dealer, or the set-up contractor, shall have in hand all
zoning/building permits required by the land use ordinance to enable the
manufactured home to be legally located on the proposed site. No manufactured
home shall be located in the town's planning jurisdiction as herein provided
until a building permit shall have been issued by the Planning and Inspections
Department of the town. The building permit shall authorize:
            1.   The location of said manufactured home on the proposed site;
            2.   The installation of the required masonry piers;
            3.   The installation of appropriate skirting; and
            4.   The construction of the specific stairs, porches, entrance
platforms, ramps or other means of entrance and exit required by this chapter.
         (e)   No such building permit shall be issued for the location of a
manufactured home, as hereinabove permitted, until the Planning and Inspections
Department shall have received a written commitment from the owner of the
premises and from the applicant for the building permit (if different), in a
manner and form satisfactory to the Town Attorney, that he, she or they will
cause said manufactured home to be set up as required herein within 30 days on
the subject premises on penalty of being required to remove the said
manufactured home from the premises within 48 hours if the required setup shall
not be accomplished. Further, no building permit shall be issued for the
location of a manufactured home, as hereinabove permitted, until the Planning
and Inspections Department shall have received a written commitment from the
owner of the premises or the applicant (if different), in manner and form
satisfactory to the Town Attorney, that he, she or they will remove the piers
and curtain walls from the premises within 30 days of removal of the
manufactured home from said lot, should said manufactured home not be replaced
by another within said period.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.114 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)    In districts in which this chapter provides for manufactured home
parks, they shall be permitted; provided that, the following occurs before the
Zoning Administrator issues a permit for the construction of the park. The
Zoning Administrator shall certify the authenticity of each approval before the
permit is issued and shall keep copies of the manufactured home park plan and
certified approvals as a record.
   (B)   Plans for the proposed manufactured home park shall be submitted to
and approved by the:
      (1)   County Health Department (if required);
      (2)   Zoning Administrator; and
      (3)   Town Planning and Zoning Board.
   (C)   Manufactured home parks shall be located on a well-drained site which
shall be properly graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant
pools of water.
   (D)   Manufactured home parks shall contain at least two acres of land and
shall be buffered from adjacent residential districts through the installation
of a semi-opaque buffer screen as detailed in §§
153.230 through
153.236.
   (E)   The number of manufactured homes in the manufactured home park shall
not exceed the density of six units per gross acre of land contained within the
park.
   (F)   The minimum land area of any manufactured home space shall be 3,500
square feet.
   (G)   Each manufactured home space must be at least 40 feet wide.
   (H)   No manufactured home, nor appurtenance thereto, shall occupy land
within ten feet of the boundary of the manufactured home space to which it is
assigned. No permanent addition shall be constructed to any manufactured home.
   (I)   No manufactured home space shall be within 50 feet of any public
street right-of-way, nor 30 feet of any property line.
   (J)   No manufactured home shall have direct access to a public street, but
shall abut upon and have access to a private drive, built to State DOT
standards, with a width of not less than 20 feet, which shall have unobstructed
access to a public right-of-way.
   (K)   Automobile parking shall not be permitted, except in the areas
specified. One and one-half off-street and off-drive parking spaces shall be
provided for each manufactured home the park is designed to accommodate. In
locating the parking spaces, consideration shall be given to vehicular and
pedestrian safety and convenience of park residents. In no instance shall there
be more than one parking space permitted on any manufactured home space.
   (L)   Each manufactured home park shall provide the following minimum
facilities on the site for the common use of all manufactured home occupants:
      (1)   Refuse collection as provided by local government with
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Approved water and sewer connections must be available at each
manufactured home space. Manufactured homes shall be connected to the water and
sewer lines;
      (3)   Electrical connections (110-220 volts) shall be provided for each
manufactured home space. Service connections to each manufactured home space
shall be made in accordance with the National Electrical Code;
      (4)   All driveways and walkways within the park shall be lighted at
night with electric lamps of not less than 200 watts each, spaced at intervals
of not more than 100 feet or equivalent lighting; and
      (5)   Adequate and suitable recreation facilities shall be developed
within the park consisting of at least 400 square feet of recreation area for
each manufactured home space in the park. Safety, convenience of the park
residents, presence of existing vegetation and good drainage are among the
features that shall be considered in locating the recreational areas.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.115 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)    A building permit is required when installing, moving or
substantially constructing or reconstructing a dish antenna over four feet in
diameter.
   (B)   A dish antenna must be installed in compliance with the manufacturer's
specifications at a minimum.
   (C)   In all residential districts dish antennas which exceed four feet in
diameter must be permanently installed on the ground in the rear yard, and
shall not exceed 12 feet in diameter.
   (D)   In business and industrial districts, dish antennas may either be
installed on the ground or on the roof of the building. If installed on the
roof, the dish shall not be larger than 12 feet in diameter, shall not project
higher than ten feet above the maximum building height of the zoning district
or more than one-third the actual height above the roof, whichever is less,
shall be set back from the front and sides of the building at least 18 feet and
shall not be used for any advertising purposes. A dish antenna may be installed
on the top of another part of the building which is lower than the roof, and
such as a balcony or parking deck only if such location is at the rear or side
of the building and all other requirements are met.
   (E)   Digital dish antenna 24 inches in diameter or less may be attached to
the principal building in any residential district.
   (F)   A dish antenna may be attached to an accessory building which is
permanently secured to the ground, but may not be attached to the principal
building, except as provided in division (D) above.
   (G)   If a dish antenna is repainted, the only permissible colors are the
original color used by the manufacturer, off-white, pastel beige, grey or
pastel grey-green. The paint must have a dull (non-glossy) finish and no
patterns, lettering or numerals shall be permitted on either side of the dish
surface.
   (H)   No dish antenna shall be installed in any public right-of-way or in
any drainage or utility easement.
   (I)   A dish antenna shall be installed in the rear yard only in all
districts, except as provided for in division (J) below.
   (J)   In business and industrial districts, a dealer selling dish antennas
may have a maximum of one such antenna installed in the front or side yard for
display purposes providing all other requirements are met. If a dealer displays
a dish antenna in a front or side yard, his or her permissible sign area shall
be reduced by one-half. In residential districts, a digital dish antenna 24
inches or less in diameter may be placed in the front yard only if such
placement is necessary to acquire a sufficient satellite signal.
   (K)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas, from the side lot
line, shall be the same as the principal building setback. On corner lots, on
the side abutting the street, the minimum required setback shall be the same as
the required front yard setback.
   (L)   The minimum require setback for dish antennas, from the rear lot line,
shall be six feet or the same as accessory buildings, whichever is greater, but
in no case shall any part of the antenna come closer than one foot to the
property line.
   (M)   In districts where there are no side or rear yard requirements, a
minimum setback of six feet from the side and rear lot lines shall be required
of dish antennas, but in no case shall any part of the antenna come closer than
one foot to the property line.
   (N)   In all cases no dish antenna shall be located within 15 feet of any
street right-of-way.
   (O)   In all residential districts the maximum height of dish antennas shall
be 15 feet or the height of the principal building, whichever is less.
   (P)   In business and industrial districts, the maximum height of dish
antennas installed on the ground shall be 20 feet. Dish antennas mounted on the
roof of a building shall not project higher than ten feet above the maximum
building height of the district or more than one-third the actual building
height above the ground, whichever is less.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.116 CONDOMINIUMS.
   (A)    Condominiums established in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 47C may be erected in the town's planning jurisdiction within any
residential zoning classification so long as the use to be made of each
individual unit in a particular condominium is permitted within that zoning
classification in which the site lies.
   (B)   Although condominium ownership does not involve ownership in fee
simple of any portion of the land on which the condominium is located, area and
dimensional requirements, including front, rear and side yards, if any are
required by the zoning classification in which the site lies, shall apply. The
development shall be platted so that it might be determined by the Zoning
Administrator whether the structure housing one or more condominium units
complies with the area and other dimensional requirements of the particular
zoning classification in which the site lies.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.117 SALE OF TOWNHOUSES.
   (A)    Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the individual
dwelling units of two-family and multi-family units which are, or have been,
constructed in compliance with the terms of this chapter, which qualify as
townhouses as the same are defined in this chapter, or the individual business,
office, institutional or commercial units which are, or have been, constructed
in compliance with the terms of this chapter and the state building code which
qualify as townhouses, as the same are defined in this chapter, may be conveyed
as separate units so that the same might be individually owned. Each such
conveyance shall consist of the unit, including the portion of the lot on which
it is constructed, and a portion of the lot which lies between the unit and the
front and back line of the lot on which the townhouses are constructed. In the
case of end units, the conveyance shall include the remainder of said lot to
the side lot line. There shall be no further division of such townhouse lots by
conveyance of a portion of same, or otherwise, and no additional construction
shall be permitted on any lot, which, had it (conveyance or construction)
occurred prior to division into townhouses, would have caused the structure of
which said townhouse is a part to be a violation of the dimensional
requirements of this chapter; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall
obviate the requirements that the subdivision of land as defined in the
subdivision regulations, be submitted to the town for approval as set forth in
this chapter; provided further, however, the division of a tract in single
ownership, whose entire area is no greater than two acres, into not more than
three lots, where no street right- of-way dedication is involved, and where the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town, shall not
constitute the subdivision of land, and such division into not more than three
lots for the purpose of conveying townhouses, as herein permitted, shall
constitute compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The dimensional requirements, if any, including area, front, side and
rear yard, shall be determined by the zoning classification applicable to the
particular site. Said dimensional requirements shall be applied to the overall
structure, as opposed to the individual townhouse units, as if the individual
units were going to be owner-occupied or rented, as opposed to being sold as
townhouses.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.118 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)    Studies have shown that lowered property values and increased crime
rates tend to accompany and are brought about by the concentration of adult
establishments as defined herein. Regulation of these uses is necessary to
ensure that these effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding
neighborhoods and to protect the integrity of the town's schools, churches,
childcare centers, parks and playgrounds which are typically areas in which
juveniles congregate. It is the intent of this provision to establish
reasonable regulations to prevent a concentration of adult establishments
within the town and to separate adult establishments from those sensitive uses
listed below.
   (B)   Adult establishments shall include an adult bookstore, adult motion
picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, adult live entertainment
business, massage business as they are defined in G.S. § 14-202.10 and any
establishment meeting the definition of "sexually oriented business" as defined
in G.S. § 160D-902(f). These definitions shall be construed consistent with
G.S. §§ 14-202.10 et seq., but shall not include art studios which use nude
models for the purpose of drawing, painting or sculpting.
   (C)   (1)   No adult establishment shall be located in the following areas:
         (a)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from any residentially-
zoned district;
         (b)   Within a minimum distance of 2,500 feet from any child day care
center, park, playground, public or private school, and/or church; and
         (c)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from any other adult
establishment.
      (2)   All measurements shall be made by drawing a straight line from the
nearest point of the lot line where the proposed adult establishment is to be
located to the nearest point of the lot line or boundary of the closest
residentially zoned district, adult establishment, child day care center, park,
playground, public or private school and/or church.
   (D)   This chapter does not conflict with state laws regulating pornographic
materials and activities; but, rather, it regulates the locations of adult
establishments whose materials or activities are legal.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.119 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   (A)   Where allowed. Telecommunications towers, when located on privately-
owned property are permitted by special use permit in A-5, I-1 and I-
2 Districts. Telecommunications towers are permitted by zoning permit in the C-
3 District. Collocation of telecommunication equipment on existing facilities
and structures is permitted by zoning permit.
   (B)   Submission requirements. Applications for special use permits and
zoning permits for a telecommunications tower and facilities shall include:
      (1)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner and lessee
of the parcel of land upon which the tower is proposed to be situated. If the
applicant is not the owner of the parcel of land upon which the tower is
proposed to be situated, the written consent of the owner shall be evidenced in
the application.
      (2)   The legal description, property tax parcel identification number
and address of the parcel of land upon which the tower is proposed to be
situated.
      (3)   Inability to collocate. The applicant must provide evidence of an
inability to collocate on existing towers or usable antenna support structures
within the applicant's search ring. The applicant's search ring is the area in
which the telecommunication facility must be located in order for the
applicant's equipment to function as intended. The applicant must submit the
following information in support of its assertion of an inability to collocate:
         (a)   A map of the applicant's search ring;
         (b)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners of
other towers or usable antenna support structures within the applicant's search
ring, including town owned property;
         (c)   An affidavit attesting to the fact that the applicant made
diligent, but unsuccessful, efforts to obtain permission to install or
collocate the applicant's telecommunications facilities on existing towers
(government or privately-owned) with sufficient capacity for applicant's
equipment or usable (having sufficient capacity for applicant's equipment)
antenna support structures within the applicant's search ring; and
         (d)   Written technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the proposed
tower or telecommunication facilities cannot be installed or collocated on
another tower or usable antenna support structure located within the
applicant's search ring.
      (4)   A description of the design plan proposed by the applicant. The
applicant must identify the utilization of the most recent technological design
as part of the design plan.
      (5)   A written statement from an engineer(s) that the construction and
placement of the tower will not interfere with public safety communications and
the usual and customary transmission or reception of radio, television or other
communications services enjoyed by surrounding properties.
      (6)   Written, technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the proposed
structure meets the standards set forth in division (E) below.
      (7)   Written, technical evidence from a qualified individual(s)
reasonably acceptable to the fire chief and the Zoning Administrator that the
proposed site of the tower or telecommunications facilities does not pose an
undue risk of explosion, fire or other danger to life or property due to its
proximity to volatile, flammable, explosive or hazardous materials such as LP
gas, propane, gasoline, natural gas or corrosive or other dangerous chemicals.
      (8)   In order to assist the reviewing authority in evaluating visual
impact, the applicant shall submit color photo simulations showing the proposed
site of the tower with a photo-realistic representation of the proposed tower
as it would appear viewed from the closest residential property and from
adjacent streets.
      (9)   The Telecommunications Act gives the FCC sole jurisdiction of the
field of regulation of RF emissions and does not allow the reviewing authority
to condition or deny any permit for telecommunications facilities on the basis
of RF impacts (whether mounted on towers or antenna support structures) which
meet FCC standards. Applicants shall be required to submit information on the
proposed power density of their proposed telecommunications facilities and
demonstrate how this meets FCC standards.
      (10)   The Zoning Administrator may require an applicant to supplement
any information that the Zoning Administrator considers inadequate or that the
applicant has failed to supply. The Zoning Administrator may deny an
application on the basis that the applicant has not satisfactorily supplied the
information required in this division (B).
   (C)   Height. Towers shall be permitted to a height of 250 feet in
accordance with division (P) below, criteria for site plan development
modifications. Measurement of tower height for the purpose of determining
compliance with all requirements of this section shall include the tower
structure itself, the base pad, and any other telecommunications facilities
attached thereto which extend more than 20 feet over the top of the tower
structure itself. Tower height shall be measured from the existing, undisturbed
grade.
   (D)   Setbacks.
      (1)   All towers up to 100 feet in height shall be set back on all sides
a distance equal to the underlying building setback requirement in the
applicable zoning district. Towers in excess of 100 feet in height shall be set
back one additional foot per each foot of tower height in excess of 100 feet.
      (2)   Setback requirements for towers shall be measured from the base of
the tower to the property line of the parcel of land on which it is located.
      (3)   Setback requirements may be modified for telecommunication
facilities requiring a special use permit, as provided in division (P) below,
when placement of a tower in a location, which will reduce the visual impact,
can be accomplished. For example, adjacent to trees which may visually hide the
tower.
      (4)   Setback requirements may be modified for telecommunication
facilities requiring a zoning permit by the Zoning Administrator upon the
applicant's submission of an engineer's fall zone letter certifying that the
tower will not cross adjacent property lines or any public right-of-way in the
event of tower failure.
   (E)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   No new tower shall be built, constructed or erected unless the
tower is capable of supporting at least three operating telecommunications
facilities comparable in weight, size and surface area to the
telecommunications facilities installed by the applicant on the tower within
six months of the completion of the tower construction.
      (2)   All towers must be designed and certified by an engineer to be
structurally sound and, at minimum, in conformance with the State Building Code
and any other standards outlined in this chapter.
   (F)   Separation requirements. For the purpose of this section, the
separation distances between towers shall be measured by drawing or following a
straight line between the base of the existing or approved structure and the
proposed base, pursuant to a site plan of the proposed tower. Tower separation
distances from residentially-zoned lands shall be measured from the base of a
tower to the closest point of residentially-zoned property. The minimum tower
separation distances from residentially zoned land and from other towers shall
be calculated and applied irrespective of town jurisdictional boundaries.
      (1)   Towers in excess of 200 feet in height shall be separated from all
residentially zoned lands by a minimum of 200% of the height of the proposed
tower.
      (2)   Towers less than 200 feet in height shall be separated from all
residentially zoned lands by 200 feet.
      (3)   Proposed towers must meet the following minimum separation
requirements from existing tower or towers which have received zoning approval,
but are not yet constructed at the time a special use permit or zoning permit
is granted pursuant to this section.
         (a)   Monopole tower structures shall be separated from all other
towers, whether monopole, self-supporting lattice or guyed, by a minimum of
1,500 feet.
         (b)   Self-supporting lattice or guyed tower structures shall be
separated from all other self-supporting or guyed towers by a minimum of 2,500
feet.
         (c)   Self-supporting lattice or guyed tower structures shall be
separated from all monopole towers by a minimum of 1,500 feet.
   (G)   Illumination. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, except as
required by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Upon commencement of
construction of a tower, in cases where there are residential uses located
within a distance which is 300% of the height of the tower from the tower and
when required by federal law, dual mode lighting shall be requested from the
FAA.
   (H)   Exterior finish. Towers not requiring FAA painting or marking shall
have an exterior finish, which enhances compatibility with, adjacent land uses,
as approved by the Zoning Administrator for a permitted use or the Board of
Aldermen for a special use.
   (I)   Landscaping. All landscaping on a parcel of land containing towers,
antenna support structures or telecommunications facilities shall be in
accordance with §§
153.285 through
153.290. The Board of Adjustment may require landscaping in excess of the
requirements of §§
153.285 through
153.290 in order to enhance compatibility with adjacent land uses. Landscaping
shall be installed on the outside of any fencing.
   (J)   Access/parking. A parcel of land upon which a tower is located must
provide access to at least one maintained vehicular parking space on site.
   (K)   Design.
      (1)   All towers which must be approved as a special use shall be of
stealth design or reasonably similar (i.e., designed to enhance compatibility
with adjacent land uses, including, but not limited to, architecturally
screened roof-mounted antennas, antennas integrated into architectural
elements, and towers designed to look other than like a tower such as light
poles, power poles and trees). The term STEALTH does not necessarily exclude
the use of un-camouflaged lattice, guyed or monopole tower designs.
      (2)   All towers in the C-3 zoning district must be of monopole design.
   (L)   Telecommunication facilities on antenna support structures. Any
telecommunications facilities which are not attached to a tower may be
permitted on any antenna support structure at least 50 feet tall, regardless of
the zoning restrictions applicable to the zoning district where the structure
is located. Telecommunications facilities are prohibited on all other
structures. The owner of such structure shall, by written certification to the
Zoning Administrator, establish the following at the time plans are submitted
for a building permit:
      (1)   That the height from grade of the telecommunications facilities
shall not exceed the height from grade of the antenna support structure by more
than 20 feet;
      (2)   That any telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances,
located above the primary roof of an antenna support structure, are set back
one foot from the edge of the primary roof for each one foot in height above
the primary roof of the telecommunications facilities. This setback requirement
shall not apply to telecommunications facilities and their appurtenances,
located above the primary roof of an antenna support structure, if such
facilities are appropriately screened from view through the use of panels,
walls, fences or other screening techniques approved by the Board of
Adjustment. Setback requirements shall not apply to stealth antennas which are
mounted to the exterior of antenna support structures below the primary roof
but, which do not protrude more than 18 inches from the side of such an antenna
support structure.
   (M)   Modification of towers. A tower existing prior to the effective date
of this amendment may continue in existence as a non-conforming structure. Such
non-conforming structures may be modified or demolished and rebuilt without
complying with any of the additional requirements of this section, except for
divisions (F) above and (N) and (O) below; provided:
      (1)   The tower is being modified or demolished and rebuilt for the sole
purpose of accommodating, within six months of the completion of the
modification or rebuild, additional telecommunications facilities comparable in
weight, size and surface area to the discrete operating telecommunications
facilities of any person currently installed on the tower;
      (2)   An application for a zoning permit is made to the Zoning
Administrator who shall have the authority to issue a zoning permit without
further approval. The grant of a zoning permit pursuant to this division (M)
allowing the modification or demolition and rebuild of an existing non-
conforming tower shall not be considered a determination that the modified or
demolished and rebuilt tower is conforming;
      (3)   The height of the modified or rebuilt tower and telecommunications
facilities attached thereto do not exceed the maximum height allowed under this
section; and
      (4)   Except as provided in this division (M), a non-conforming structure
or use may not be enlarged, increased in size, or discontinued in use for a
period of more than 180 days. This section shall not be interpreted to legalize
any structure or use existing at the time the amendment authorizing this
section is adopted which structure or use is in violation of the town's land
use ordinance prior to enactment of the amendment authorizing this section.
   (N)   Certifications and inspections.
      (1)   All towers shall be certified by an engineer to be structurally
sound and in conformance with the requirements of the State Building Code and
all other construction standards set forth by town, federal and state law. For
new monopole towers, such certification shall be submitted with an application
pursuant to division (B) above and every five years thereafter. For existing
monopole towers, certification shall be submitted within 60 days of the
effective date of this section and then every five years thereafter. For new
lattice or guyed towers, such certification shall be submitted with an
application pursuant to division (B) above and every two years thereafter. The
tower owner may be required by the Zoning Administrator to submit more frequent
certifications should there be reason to believe that the structural and
electrical integrity of the tower is jeopardized.
      (2)   The town or its agents shall have authority to enter on the
property upon which a tower is located, between the inspections and
certifications required above, to inspect the tower for the purpose of
determining whether it complies with the State Building Code and all other
construction standards provided by town, federal and state law.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to conduct such inspections at any
time, upon reasonable notice to the tower owner.
   (O)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Tower owners shall at all times employ ordinary and reasonable care
and shall install and maintain in use nothing less than commonly accepted
methods and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to
cause damage, injuries or nuisances to the public.
      (2)   Tower owners shall install and maintain towers, telecommunications
facilities, wires, cables, fixtures and other equipment in compliance with the
requirements of the national electric safety code and all FCC, state and local
regulations, and in such manner that will not interfere with the use of other
property.
      (3)   All towers, telecommunications facilities and antenna support
structures shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order
and repair so that the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property
of any person.
      (4)   All maintenance or construction of towers, telecommunications
facilities or antenna support structures shall be performed by insured
certified or licensed maintenance and construction personnel.
      (5)   All towers shall maintain compliance with current RF emission
standards of the FCC.
      (6)   In the event that the use of a tower is discontinued by the tower
owner, the tower owner shall provide written notice to the Zoning Administrator
if its intent to discontinue use and the date when the use shall be
discontinued.
   (P)   Criteria for site plan development modifications. Notwithstanding the
tower requirements provided in this section, a modification to the requirements
may be approved by the reviewing authority in accordance with the following.
      (1)   In addition to the requirement for a tower application, the
application for modification shall include the following:
         (a)   A description of how the plan addresses any adverse impact that
might occur as a result of approving the modification;
         (b)   A description of off-site or on-site factors which mitigate any
adverse impacts that might occur as a result of the modification;
         (c)   A technical study that documents and supports the criteria
submitted by the applicant upon which the request for modification is based.
The technical study shall be certified by an engineer and shall document the
existence of the facts related to the proposed modifications and its
relationship to surrounding rights-of-way and properties;
         (d)   For a modification of the setback requirement, the application
shall identify all parcels of land where the proposed tower could be located,
attempts by the applicant to contract and negotiate an agreement for
collocation, and the result of such attempts. Documentation of undertaking
these actions shall be provided by the applicant; and
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator may require the application to be
reviewed by an independent engineer under contract to the town to determine the
basis for the modification requested. The cost of review by the town's Engineer
shall be reimbursed to the town by the applicant. Such fees shall be fixed in
advance and incorporated into a permit or application fee and shall be based on
the reasonable costs to be incurred by the town in connection with such review.
On request, the amount of the consultant charges incorporated into the permit
or application fee shall be separately identified and disclosed to the
applicant. The fee imposed by the town for such review may not be used for (i)
travel time or expenses, meals, or overnight accommodations incurred in the
review of an application by the engineer; or (ii) reimbursements for the
engineer based on a contingent fee basis or a results-based arrangement.
      (2)   The reviewing authority shall consider the application for
modification based on the following criteria:
         (a)   That the tower as modified will be compatible with and not
adversely impact the character and integrity of surrounding properties;
         (b)   Off-site or on-site conditions exist which mitigate the adverse
impacts, if any, created by the modification; and
         (c)   In addition, the reviewing authority may include conditions on
the site where the tower is to be located if such conditions are necessary to
preserve the character and integrity of the neighborhoods affected by the
proposed tower and mitigate any adverse impacts which arise in connection with
the approval of the modification.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements of division (P)(1) above, in the
following cases, the applicant must also demonstrate, with written evidence,
the following:
         (a)   In the case of a requested modification to the setback
requirements, division (D) above that the setback requirement cannot be met on
the parcel of land upon which the tower is proposed to be located and the
alternative for the person is to locate the tower at another site which is
closer in proximity to a residentially zoned land;
         (b)   In the case of a request for modification to the separation
requirements from other towers of division (F) above, separation requirements
that the proposed site is zoned for industrial use and the proposed site is at
least double the minimum standard for separation from residentially zoned lands
as provided for in division (F) above;
         (c)   In the case of a request for modification of the separation
requirements from residentially-zoned land of division (F) above, if the person
provides written technical evidence from an engineer(s) that the proposed tower
and telecommunications facilities must be located at the proposed site in order
to meet the coverage requirements of the applicant's wireless communications
system and if the person is willing to create approved landscaping and other
buffers to screen the tower from being visible to residentially zoned property;
and
         (d)   In the case of a request for modification of the height limit
for towers and telecommunications facilities or to the minimum height
requirements for antenna support structures, that the modification is necessary
to:
            1.   Facilitate collocation of telecommunications facilities in
order to avoid construction of a new tower; or
            2.   To meet the coverage requirements, capacity requirements or
both of the applicant's wireless communications system, which requirements must
be documented with written, technical evidence from an engineer(s) that
demonstrates that the height of the proposed tower is the minimum height
required to function satisfactorily, and no tower that is taller than such
minimum height shall be approved.
   (Q)   Abandonment.
      (1)   If any tower shall cease to be used for a period of 365 consecutive
days, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner, with a copy to the
applicant, that the site will be subject to a determination by the Zoning
Administrator that such site has been abandoned. The owner shall have 30 days
from receipt of said notice to show, by a preponderance of the evidence that
the tower has been in use or under repair during the period. If the owner fails
to show that the tower has been in use or under repair during the period, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a final determination of abandonment for the
site. Upon issuance of the final determination of abandonment, the owner shall,
within 75 days, dismantle and remove the tower.
      (2)   To secure the obligation set forth in this section, the applicant
(and/or owner) shall post a bond in an amount to be determined by the Zoning
Administrator based on the anticipated cost of removal of the tower.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-13-2018; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
§ 153.120 FENCES.
   Unless otherwise stated in this section an approved zoning compliance permit
is required prior to the placement of any fence, which includes walls or shrub
barriers. In all cases, the corner visibility provisions of this chapter shall
be observed. The fence regulations for the various zoning districts are as
follows:
   (A)   Fences located in any residential district shall be no higher than
four feet on properties 15 feet or less away from the public or private street.
If rear or side yard adjoins a major or minor road with no driveway access, the
fence can be no higher than six feet within 15 feet from the road.
   (B)   Fences located in any commercial district shall be no higher than six
feet unless it is 15 feet away from all property lines or complies with
principal building setbacks.
   (C)   Fences located in any agricultural or recreational district can be
higher than eight feet unless it is 15 feet away from all property lines or
complies with principal building setbacks. Otherwise, it may not be higher than
12 feet unless it is part of a tennis court, driving range, or other sport-like
facility.
   (D)   For fence regulations regarding swimming pools see §
153.091.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-10-2016; Ord. 2021-03, passed
6-8-2021)
§ 153.121 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS.
    Electronic gaming operations may be permitted as a special use in
designated districts; provided that, the operation complies with the following
minimum requirements.
   (A)   All electronic gaming operations shall be located at least 1,500 feet
from any church or other religious institution, day care center, public or
private school, public park or playground, library, theater, arcade, tattoo
parlor, adult establishment or other electronic gaming establishment and must
be located at least 300 feet from any residential zoning district.
   (B)   No more than ten electronic gaming machines shall be operated at any
location, the machines must not be prohibited by state or federal law and must
have all applicable permits and licenses required under law.
   (C)   No electronic gaming establishment will be permitted to operate until
all appropriate business license fees have been paid and it shall be the
responsibility of all interested parties that the license required by this
chapter be prominently displayed within the business.
   (D)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed on the premises.
   (E)   The electronic gaming establishment does not operate outside the hours
of 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (F)   There shall be one and one-half parking spaces for every two
electronic gaming machines, plus one space for every employee on the maximum
shift.
   (G)   No electronic gaming establishment shall allow, permit or condone any
person under the age of 18 to engage in electronic gaming operations or
supervise operation of machines.
   (H)   Electronic gaming establishments shall prominently post the rules of
the sweepstakes games.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.122 HOOKAH, TOBACCO, VAPE AND SIMILAR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Hookah, tobacco, vape and similar establishments shall comply with the
following standards:
   (A)   Shall not be located within 400 feet, measured property line to
property line, from any residential zoning districts.
   (B)   Shall not be located within 1,500 feet, measured property line to
property line, from a school (public or private), daycare facility, youth
facility, community center, town park or hospital.
   (C)   Shall not be located within 2,000 feet, measured property line to
property line, from another hookah, tobacco, vape or similar establishment. If
an establishment is being proposed within 2,000 feet of a location where a
previous establishment has closed, a permit cannot be issued for the new
location until after the previous establishment has been discontinued or
abandoned in accordance with § 153.036, Abandonment and Discontinuance of Non-
conforming Situations.
   (D)   All federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations must be
adhered to in the operation of such establishments. This includes regulations
pertaining to advertisements, age restrictions, and the legality of products
sold.
   (E)   Hookah, tobacco, vape and similar establishments that are legally
existing on the effective date of Ord. 2024-06 may continue to operate/expand/
renovate in accordance with § 153.031, Continuation of Non-conforming
Situations and Completion of Non-conforming Projects.
   (F)   The required site plan shall meet all applicable town standards to
include all land uses within 2,500 feet, measured property line to property
line, from the parcel proposed for a hookah, tobacco, vape and similar
establishment use.
   (G)   All street level windows shall be visually permeable between a height
of three feet and eight feet above the walkway grade
(Ord. 2024-06, passed 7-9-2024)
DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.135 MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   Subject to the provisions of §
153.145 of this chapter, all lots in the following zones shall have at least
the amount of square footage indicated in the following table:
Zone Minimum Square Feet
Zone        Minimum Square Feet
A-5         5 acres
C-1         3,000 (if used for residential purposes, otherwise no minimum)
C-2         10,000 (3,000 if used for residential purposes)
C-3         5,000 (if used for residential purposes, R-6 standards apply)
C-4         5,000 (if used for residential purposes, R-6 standards apply)
C-5         5,000 (if used for residential purposes, R-6 standards apply)
I-1         No minimum
I-2         No minimum
R-6, RM-6   6,000
R-8, RM-8   8,000
R-10, RM-10 10,000
R-15        15,000
R-20        20,000
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.136 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
153.145, every lot used for single-family residential purposes shall have at
least the number of square feet indicated as the minimum permissible in the
zone where the use is located, according to §
153.145.
   (B)   Subject to §
153.137, every lot developed for duplex or multi-family residential purposes
shall have the number of square feet per dwelling unit indicated in the
following table. In determining the number of dwelling units permissible on a
tract of land, fractions shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
Zone Minimum Square Feet per Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family and Duplex
Zone   Minimum Square Feet per Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family and Duplex
A-5    5 acres first unit; 20,000 each additional unit
C-1    No minimum, maximum 75% lot coverage
C-2    No minimum, maximum 60% lot coverage
C-3    5,000 first unit; 2,000 each additional unit
R-6    6,000 first unit; 2,000 each additional unit
RM-6   6,000 first unit; 2,000 each additional unit
R-8    8,000 first unit; 4,000 each additional unit
RM-8   8,000 first unit; 4,000 each additional unit
R-10   10,000 first unit
RM-10* 10,000 first unit; 5,000 each additional unit
R-20   20,000 first unit; 10,000 each additional unit
NOTES TO TABLE:
*7,500 square feet minimum per unit if lot is subdivided and units sold as
townhouses.
 
   (C)    Notwithstanding division (B) above, the total ground area covered by
the principal building and all accessory buildings shall not exceed 30% of the
total lot area.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.137 RESIDENTIAL DENSITY BONUSES.
   (A)   (1)    A major housing goal of the town is to obtain in the community
a sufficient number of housing units by type, style and price to afford
residents a suitable dwelling of their choice.
      (2)   The town finds that it is in the best interest of the community to
support opportunities for persons of varying economic levels to reside in the
town and that the provision of affordable housing opportunities is important to
achieve this community goal.
   (B)   The affordable housing density bonus is intended to assist materially
the housing industry in providing adequate and affordable shelter for all
economic segments of the community and to provide a balance of housing
opportunities for low- and moderate-income persons throughout the town.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment, through the issuance of a special use permit,
may grant a density bonus for any residential development. Such residential
development shall be subject to a site plan review process as required in this
chapter. The Board of Adjustment, through the issuance of a special use permit,
may grant a density bonus for any residential development where the total
number of units, including the maximum allowable density bonus, is less than
the thresholds established through calculations outlined in §§
153.139 and
153.140.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.138 PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING DENSITY BONUSES.
   (A)    The applicant shall submit an application to the Board of Adjustment.
The application shall contain two plats:
      (1)   A subdivision plat or site plan complying with the town's rules and
regulations for subdivision plats or site plans and containing the maximum
allowable number of units permitted in the zoning district in which the
development is to be located; and
      (2)   A plat or plan representing the same with the density bonus
included.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such application the planning staff shall transmit to
the Planning and Zoning Board notice of such application. The Planning and
Zoning Board shall review the site plan using the procedures specified as
follows and submit a written advisory report to the Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   An applicant for site plan review shall file with the planning
staff six copies of the site plan documents drawn to a scale not to exceed one
inch equals 100 feet on standard 24-inch by 36-inch sheets. The planning staff
shall acknowledge receipt of these plans by endorsing them with a signature and
a date. The planning staff, along with other departmental staff, shall review
the documents for compliance with the submission data requirements and provide
its recommendations with the submitted documents to the Board of Aldermen,
Board of Adjustment or Zoning Administrator in the case of special use, special
use or zoning permit projects respectively.
      (2)   The permit-issuing authority shall review the proposed site plan
and take final action on the proposal. The date of consideration of site plan
proposals shall be based upon the submission schedule established by the
permit-issuing authority. The Board of Aldermen, Board of Adjustment or Zoning
Administrator shall review the site plan and supporting documents, taking into
consideration the reasonable fulfillment of the objectives listed in division
(A) above. The final action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either:
         (a)   Approval of the site plan based upon a determination that the
proposed plan will constitute a suitable development and is in compliance with
the standards set forth in this subchapter;
         (b)   Approval of the site plan subject to any conditions,
modifications and restrictions as required by the Board of Aldermen, Board of
Adjustment or Zoning Administrator which will ensure that the project meets the
listed principal areas of interest; or
         (c)   Disapproval of the site plan based upon a determination that the
proposed project does not meet the standards for review set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.139 REVIEW CRITERIA FOR DENSITY BONUSES.
   (A)    In considering an application for an affordable housing density
bonus, the Board of Adjustment shall determine if the proposed density bonus
shall result in:
      (1)   The construction of an appropriate number of single-family owner-
occupied units which:
         (a)   Are affordable to low- and moderate-income households as defined
by the guidelines of the State Housing Finance Agency; and
         (b)   Have appropriate resale controls to assure affordability.
      (2)   The construction of an appropriate number of rental units which:
         (a)   Are affordable to low- and moderate-income households as
determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's fair
market rents; and
         (b)   Have appropriate provisions to assure continued affordability.
   (B)   In lieu of construction of low- and moderate-income housing, the offer
of payment by the applicant to the town's community development block grant
fund. The payment shall be equal to 15% of the density bonus's present market
value as certified by an independent certified appraiser acceptable to the
town. All such payments are to be allocated only for the provision of low- and
moderate-income housing units in the town.
   (C)   (1)   An appropriate number of low- and moderate-income units shall be
deemed to be 50% of the density bonus.
      (2)   However, this percentage may be adjusted where an overriding public
benefit is demonstrated.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.140 MAXIMUM DENSITY BONUSES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written advisory opinion as required in §
153.138 and upon making a determination that the application addresses the
goals specified in §
153.137, the Board of Adjustment may grant a density bonus up to 30% above the
maximum density allowance set forth in §
153.139.
   (B)   The computation of the density bonus allowed by this section shall be
rounded off to the nearest whole number.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.141 DENSITY CREDITS FOR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The town shall allow density credits or severable development rights for
dedicated rights-of-way pursuant to G.S. §§ 136-66.10 or 136-66.11.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.142 MINIMUM LOT WIDTHS.
   (A)   No lot may be created that is so narrow or otherwise so irregularly
shaped that it would be impracticable to construct on it a building that:
      (1)   Could be used for purposes that are permissible in that zoning
district; and
      (2)   Could satisfy any applicable setback requirements for that
district.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing standard, the
following minimum lot widths are recommended and are deemed presumptively to
satisfy the standard set forth in division (A) above. The lot width shall be
measured at the building setback line (in no case less than the requirements
set forth in §
153.142) and shall be calculated by running a straight line connecting the
points at which the said setback line intersects with lot boundary lines at
opposite sides of the lot.
Zone Lot Width
Zone      Lot Width
A-5       200 feet
C-1       None
C-2       60 feet
C-3       100 feet first unit; 20 feet each additional unit
C-4       75 feet first unit; 20 feet each additional unit
I-1       100 feet
I-2       100 feet
R-6, RM-6 50 feet first unit; 10 feet each additional unit
R-8, RM-8 60 feet first unit; 10 feet each additional unit
R-10      80 feet first unit
RM-10     80 feet first unit; 10 feet each additional unit
R-15      80 feet
R-20      100 feet
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.143 BUILDING SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No portion of any principal building may be located on any lot closer
to any lot line or to the street right-of-way line than is authorized in the
table set forth below. If the street right-of-way line is readily determinable
(by reference to a recorded map, set irons or other means), the setback shall
be measured from such right-of-way line. If the right-of-way line is not so
determinable, the property owner shall submit proof of his property line. The
term "property line" refers to those lines that form the boundaries of a
recorded lot.
Zone* Front Setback Line  Side Setback Line (feet) Rear Setback Line (feet)
      (feet)
Zone* Front Setback Line  Side Setback Line (feet) Rear Setback Line (feet)
      (feet)
A-5   35                  20                       20
C-1   None                None                     None
C-2   25                  10                       20
C-3   25                  10                       10
C-4   30                  20                       20
C-5   25                  15                       25
I-1   50                  25                       35
I-2   50                  25**                     25**
R-6   25                  8                        10
R-8   30                  8                        15
R-10  30                  8                        15
RM-10 30                  8                        15
R-15  30                  15                       25
R-20  30                  15                       25
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Zones located within the town’s established overlay districts are governed
by the additional provisions of the ordinances governing those overlay
districts.
**A 50-foot side yard and rear yard setback shall be required when said I-
2 lot abuts a residential zoning district or a public street or watercourse
separating the said industrial lot from a residential zoning district.
 
   (B)   Setback distances shall be measured from the property line or street
right-of-way, perpendicularly thereto, to a point on the lot that is directly
below the nearest extension of any part of the building that is substantially a
part of the building itself, excluding the outermost three feet of any
uncovered porches, steps, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures.
   (C)   Whenever an existing private road or private driveway that serves more
than three lots or more than three dwelling units or that serves any non-
residential use tending to generate traffic equivalent to more than three
dwelling units is located along a lot boundary, then:
      (1)   If the lot is not also bordered by a public street, buildings shall
be set back from the right-of-way of the private road just as if such road were
a public street; and
      (2)   If the lot is also bordered by a public street, then the setback
line on that side abutting the public street must meet the minimum front yard
setback requirements for that residential district.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-10-2016; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
§ 153.144 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A lot of record at the time of the adoption of this chapter may be
used as a building site for a structure to be used for a purpose permitted in
the district in which the said lot is situated, although its size does not
permit its owner to comply with minimum area and yard requirements; provided,
however, front, side and rear yards, if required in said district, shall be
provided on said lot in no less than the same proportion to those required, as
the area of the lot of record compares to the area requirement in the said
zoning district. However, in the case of manufactured homes in an RM-
6 Residential Zoning District, a minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet shall be
necessary in order to place said manufactured home on a lot.
   (B)   In residential zones where at least 50% of the structures on a block
do not meet the minimum required front yard depth, a new structure may be
constructed using the average front yard setback depth for that block. In such
cases no building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall
project beyond the average front yard depth so established; provided this
regulation shall not be construed as to require a front yard greater in depth
than the minimum front yard specified for the said district in division (A)
above. Where double-frontage lots occur, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (C)   Cornices, eaves, steps, gutters, buttresses, open or enclosed fire
escapes, outside stairways, balconies and similar features, but not porches,
may project not more than three feet into any required yard.
   (D)   Planned unit developments (PUDs) may be constructed without complying
with the dimensional regulations as specified in this subchapter; provided,
however, planned unit developments do not exceed the density thresholds
established for the zoning districts in which they are located and are
constructed in accordance with the provisions specified in §§
153.050 through
153.054,
153.065 and
153.066.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.145 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section:
      (1)   The height of a building shall be the vertical distance measured
from the mean elevation of the finished grade at the front of the building to
the highest point of the building, not to include chimneys, antennas or other
rooftop appurtenances; and
      (2)   The highest point of a building shall be the top of any parapet
wall or the highest point of the roof's surface, whichever is greater. Roofs
with slopes greater than 75 degrees are regarded as walls.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no building or structure
located in one of the town's residential and commercial zoning districts shall
exceed a height of 35 feet, measured from ground level to its cornice line,
unless authorized by the issuance of a special use permit. Any building or
structure exceeding a height of 35 feet, but not exceeding a height of 50 feet
shall require a special use permit for authorization to construct said building
or structure. Any building or structure in excess of 50 feet shall require a
special use permit for authorization to construct said building or structure.
In such cases, the depth of the front and total width of side yards required
shall be increased one foot for each two feet, or fraction thereof, of building
height in excess of 35 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.146 CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In any single-family residential subdivision in the zones indicated
below, a developer may create lots that are smaller than those required by §
153.135 if such developer complies with the provisions of this section and if
the lots so created are not smaller than the minimums set forth in the
following table:
Zone Minimum Square Feet
Zone      Minimum Square Feet
A-5       10,000
R-6, RM-6 4,000
R-8, RM-8 5,000
R-10      5,000
RM-10     5,000
R-15      7,000
R-20      8,000
 
   (B)   The intent of this section is to authorize the developer to decrease
lot sizes and leave the land "saved" by so doing as usable open space, thereby
lowering development costs without increasing the density beyond what would be
permissible if the land were subdivided into the size lots required by §
153.135.
   (C)   The amount of usable open space that must be set aside shall be
determined by:
      (1)   Subtracting from the standard square footage requirement set forth
in §
153.135, the amount of square footage of each lot that is smaller than that
standard; and
      (2)   Adding together the results obtained in division (C)(1) above for
each lot.
   (D)   The provisions of this section may only be used if the usable open
space set aside in a subdivision comprises at least 10,000 square feet of space
that satisfies the definition and provisions of usable open space set forth in
§§
153.160 through
153.166.
   (E)   The setback requirements of §
153.142 shall not apply in cluster subdivisions. However, front, side and rear
lot setbacks shall be provided on said lot in no less than the same proportion
to those required in the said zoning district in which the cluster subdivision
is located.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.147 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building shall be erected in any required front yard or within
three feet of any lot line not a street line. An unattached accessory building
or use may be located in a side or rear yard; provided it is located a distance
of not less than eight feet from the principal building and three feet from the
rear yard line; and provided further that not more than 30% of the total lot
area is covered by buildings. On reversed corner or double-frontage lots, no
accessory building shall extend beyond the front yard line of the lot to its
rear.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2016-03, passed 5-10-2016; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
OPEN SPACE
§ 153.160 USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all residential subdivisions
containing 31 or more single-family or duplex houses, or multi-family
developments containing ten or more dwelling units, or planned unit
developments shall be developed so that a minimum of 20% of the total area of
the development remains as usable open space. For purposes of this chapter, the
term DEVELOPMENT refers to the entire development developed out of a single
tract or contiguous multiple tracts under common ownership regardless of
whether the development is constructed in phases or stages.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, USABLE OPEN SPACE means an area that:
      (1)   Is not encumbered with any substantial structure;
      (2)   Is not devoted to use as a street (including right-of-way), parking
area or sidewalk;
      (3)   Is left in its natural or undisturbed state if wooded (as of the
date development began), or is properly planted and landscaped with the
objective of creating a wooded area or other area that is consistent with the
objectives set forth in division (B)(4) below;
      (4)   Is protected with a conservation easement to ensure the
preservation and maintenance of such open space in perpetuity;
      (5)   Is capable of being used and enjoyed for purposes of recreation and
relaxation; and
      (6)   Is legally and practicably accessible to the residents of the
development out of which the required open space is taken, or to the public if
dedication of the open space is required pursuant to §
153.163.
      (7)   No more than 40% of the open space may be wetlands.
   (C)   Residential subdivisions that are not required to provide usable open
space may provide said open space if:
      (1)   The town, a homeowners’ association or similar organization that
satisfies the criteria set forth in §
153.164 agrees that it will accept an offer of dedication of such open space,
and in that case the offer of dedication shall be made; and
      (2)   The town, the homeowners’ association or similar organization that
satisfies the criteria set forth in §
153.164 agrees to become the holder of the required conservation easement, in
which case it will execute a legally binding agreement governing the
preservation and maintenance of the open space and be responsible for upholding
the terms of that easement.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.161 MINI-PARKS OPTIONAL.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
153.160, the development of recreational facilities in the form of mini-parks
may be used to satisfy the 5% open space requirements of this subchapter. The
purpose of mini-parks is to provide recreational facilities to serve the
immediate surrounding neighborhood and, most especially, to provide a
convenient and attractive area in which to observe and supervise the play of
young children during daytime hours. Mini-parks are intended for active use.
Larger mini-parks may have multi-purpose hardcourts. Smaller mini-parks may be
equipped with play apparatus and minimum seating accommodations. All mini-parks
shall be attractively landscaped and shall be provided with sufficient natural
or human-made semi-opaque screening (as provided in §§
153.230 through
153.236) to minimize any negative impacts of the mini-park upon adjacent
residences.
   (B)   Tennis courts and swimming pools shall be counted as mini-parks for
purposes of satisfying the requirements of this subchapter; except that not
more than 75% of this requirement can be met by the square footage devoted to
swimming pools and tennis courts. Community buildings shall not be regarded as
mini-parks.
   (C)   Each mini-park shall be centrally located and easily accessible so
that it can be conveniently and safely reached and used by those persons in the
surrounding neighborhood it is designed to serve. The approximate population
that each mini-park is designed to serve can be determined by dividing the
number of square feet in the park by 110.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.162 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
153.163, usable open space required to be provided by the developer in
accordance with this subchapter shall not be dedicated to the public, but shall
remain under the ownership and control of the developer (or his or her
successor) or a homeowners' association or similar organization that satisfies
the criteria established in §
153.164.
   (B)   The person or entity identified in division (A) above as having the
right of ownership and control over such recreational facilities and open space
shall be responsible for the continuing upkeep and proper maintenance of the
same.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.163 DEDICATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   If any portion of any tract proposed for residential development
lies within an area designated in an officially adopted town park plan as a
neighborhood park or part of any proposed greenway system or bikeway system,
the area so designated (not exceeding 5% of the total tract area) shall be
included as part of the area set aside to satisfy the requirement of §
153.160.
      (2)   This area shall be dedicated to public use.
   (B)   If more than 5% of a lot proposed for residential development lies
within an area designated as provided in division (A) above, the town may
attempt to acquire the additional land in the following manner:
      (1)   The developer may be encouraged to resort to the procedures
authorized in §
153.145 and to dedicate the common open space thereby created; or
      (2)   The town may purchase or condemn the land.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to accept a dedication of property that is
not a part of an official town park plan if it sees fit to do so to meet the
recreational needs of the development.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.164 HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS.
   Homeowners' associations or similar legal entities that, pursuant to §
153.162, are responsible for the maintenance and control of common areas,
including open space and recreational facilities, shall be established in such
a manner that:
   (A)   Provision for the establishment of the association or similar entity
is made before any lot in the development is sold or any building occupied;
   (B)   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal authority to
maintain and exercise control over such common areas and facilities; and
   (C)   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from residents of the development to cover their proportionate
shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of such common
areas and facilities.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.165 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)    The requirements set forth in this subchapter concerning the amount,
size, location and nature of usable open space to be provided in connection
with residential developments are established by the town as standards that
presumptively will result in the provision of the amount of open space that is
consistent with officially adopted town plans. The town recognizes, however,
that due to the particular nature of a tract of land, or the nature of the
facilities proposed for installation, or other factors, the underlying
objectives of this subchapter may be achieved even though the standards are not
adhered to with mathematical precision. Therefore, the Zoning Administrator,
with the concurrence of the Director of Parks and Recreation and the Director
of Planning and Inspections, is authorized to permit minor deviations from
these standards whenever it determines that:
      (1)   The objectives underlying these standards can be met without strict
adherence to them; and
      (2)   Because of peculiarities in the developer's tract of land or the
facilities proposed, it would be unreasonable to require strict adherence to
these standards.
   (B)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator authorizes some deviation from the
standards set forth in this subchapter pursuant to division (A) above, the
official record of action taken on the development application shall contain a
statement of the reasons for allowing the deviation.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.166 FEES IN LIEU OF USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)    Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that the open space and
recreational needs of the development required by this subchapter could also be
adequately met by facilities constructed on town property that is located close
enough to such development to reasonably serve the residents, the Zoning
Administrator may authorize the developer to pay a fee to the town's Open
Space, Parks and Recreation Fund in lieu of providing on-site facilities.
   (B)   The developer shall pay a fee to the town's Open Space, Parks and
Recreation Fund in lieu of providing usable open space when the residential
development is exempt from the requirements of §
153.160.
   (C)   The minimum amount of fee paid under this section in lieu of usable
open space shall be $100 per person of those expected to reside in the
development (using the established 2.4 persons per household standard).
   (D)   With respect to any development that is authorized or required by this
section to pay a fee in lieu of providing usable open space, no use may be
commenced, lot sold or building occupied unless the fee has been paid. If a
development is intended to be sold or occupied on a phase-by-phase basis,
payment of the fee relating to each phase must first be made.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
SIGNS
§ 153.180 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, unless otherwise specifically provided,
or unless otherwise clearly required by the context, the words and phrases
defined in this subchapter shall have the meaning herein set forth when used in
this subchapter. If a word or phrase used in this subchapter is not defined by
G.S. Ch. 160D or elsewhere in this chapter, to the extent such word or phrase
is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition shall control.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered:
      (1)   Only elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is displayed;
or
      (2)   Is as a minor and incidental activity upon the premises where the
sign is displayed.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, profession or
industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to type of
products sold, manufactured or assembled, and/or to service or entertainment
offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if such
activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that:
      (1)   Is permanent; and
      (2)   Is attached to, erected on or supported by some structure such as a
pole, mast or frame that is not itself an integral part of a building or other
structure having a principal function other than the support of a sign.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or
other activity that is conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the
premises on which the sign is located. The structure on which an advertising
sign is displayed of type commonly known as a "billboard" is also an
advertising sign.
   SHINGLE SIGN. A small signboard hanging or protruding so that both sides are
visible, which has no dimension more than two feet, which is no larger in area
than three square feet. A SHINGLE SIGN may be mounted as a wall sign so that
only one side is visible.
   SIGN. Any surface, fabric or device bearing lettered, pictorial or
sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public
view; or any structure (including billboard or poster panel) designed to carry
the above visual information.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.
      (1)   A sign that:
         (a)   Is used in connection with a circumstance, situation or event
that is designed, intended or expected to take place or to be completed within
a reasonably short or definite period after the erection of such sign;
         (b)   Is intended to remain on the location where it is erected or
placed for a period of generally not more than 15 days; or
         (c)   Is displayed on a premises only during normal operating hours
and then removed from that location.
      (2)   If a sign display area is permanent, but the message displayed is
subject to periodic changes, that sign shall not be regarded as TEMPORARY.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached or erected against the wall of a building or
structure, only one side of which is visible.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.181 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §§
153.182 and
153.183, no sign may be erected, moved, enlarged or substantially altered,
except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Signs not exempted under the provisions referenced in division (A)
above may be erected, moved, enlarged or substantially altered only in
accordance with a sign permit issued by the Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee and a building permit issued by the chief Building Inspector or his or
her designee.
      (1)   Sign permit applications and sign permits shall be governed by the
same provisions of this chapter applicable to zoning permits.
      (2)   In the case of a lot occupied or intended to be occupied by
multiple business enterprises (e.g., a shopping center):
         (a)   Sign permits shall be issued in the name of the property owner
rather than in the name of the individual business, and it shall be the
responsibility of such owner to allocate among the tenants the permissible
maximum sign surface area that has been approved by the Zoning Administrator;
and
         (b)   Upon application by such owner, the Zoning Administrator must
approve a master sign plan that allocates permissible sign surface area to the
various buildings or businesses within the development according to an agreed-
upon formula, and thereafter sign permits may be issued to individual tenants
by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee only in accordance with the
allocation contained in the master sign plan. In the event an owner is
unwilling or unable to devise a master sign plan, such plan shall be developed
by the Zoning Administrator using building frontage as a calculation for total
sign surface area.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.182 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs are exempt from regulation under this subchapter, except
for the regulations embodied in §
153.192(B) through (E):
   (A)   Signs not exceeding two square feet in area that are customarily
associated with residential use and that are not of a commercial nature, such
as signs giving property identification names or numbers or names of occupants,
signs on mailboxes or paper tubes, and signs posted on private property
relating to private parking or warning the public against trespassing or danger
from animals;
   (B)   Signs erected by or on behalf of or pursuant to the authorization of a
governmental body, including legal notices, identification and informational
signs, and traffic, directional or regulatory signs;
   (C)   Official signs of an informational nature erected by public utilities;
   (D)   Flags, pennants or insignia of any governmental or non-profit
organization when not displayed in connection with a commercial promotion or as
an advertising device;
   (E)   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed two square feet each and that bear no advertising information;
   (F)   Signs painted on or otherwise permanently attached to currently
licensed motor vehicles that are not primarily used as signs; and
   (G)   Temporary help wanted signs, not to exceed six square feet in area,
that do not contain the company's name or logo, unless located in a multi-
tenant property, in which case no more than 30% of the sign area may be
occupied by the company name or logo.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.183 CERTAIN TEMPORARY SIGNS; PERMIT EXEMPTIONS AND ADDITIONAL
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following temporary signs are permitted without a zoning, special
use or sign permit. However, such signs shall conform to the requirements set
forth below as well as all other applicable requirements of this chapter,
except those contained in §§
153.186 and
153.188.
      (1)   Signs containing the message that the real estate on which the sign
is located (including buildings) is for sale, lease or rent, together with
information identifying the owner or agent. Real estate signs advertising
residential properties shall not exceed four square feet in area. Real estate
signs advertising commercial or industrial property shall not exceed 32 square
feet in area. All real estate signs shall be removed within ten days of sale,
lease or rental. For lots of five acres or more in area and abutting more than
one public street, a single sign on each street frontage may be erected. Each
sign shall not exceed the above-mentioned sign area.
      (2)   Construction site identification signs. Such signs may identify the
project, the owner or developer, architect, engineer, contractor and
subcontractors, and funding sources, and may contain related information. Not
more than one such sign shall be erected per site, and it may not exceed 32
square feet in area. Such signs may be erected no more than 30 days prior to
the issuance of a building permit and shall be removed within ten days after
the issuance of the final occupancy permit.
      (3)   Signs proclaiming religious or other non-commercial messages that
do not exceed 16 square feet in area and that are not internally illuminated.
Such signs shall be limited to one per abutting street.
      (4)   Displays of a non-commercial nature, including lighting, erected in
connection with the observance of holidays. Such signs shall be removed within
ten days following the holiday or established holiday season.
      (5)   Signs erected in connection with elections or political campaigns.
Such signs may only be posted on private property only after the official
campaign period has begun and shall be removed within three days following the
election or conclusion of the campaign. No such sign may exceed 12 square feet
in area.
      (6)   Signs indicating that a special event such as a fair, carnival,
circus, festival or similar happening is to take place on the lot where the
sign is located. Such signs may be erected no sooner than two weeks before the
event and must be removed no later than three days after the event.
   (B)   Temporary signs cannot be located within street rights-of-way or
public property unless approved by the Board of Aldermen or its designee. Such
signs include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   All signs listed in division (A) above;
      (2)   Signs made of paper, cloth, polyethylene film or other similar
material, whether or not they include wood as a part of the structure;
      (3)   Signs that are not permanently affixed to the ground or a building
surface in a manner approved by the Building Inspector;
      (4)   Trailer signs (includes such signs without trailer); and
      (5)   Portable signs.
   (C)   Although temporary signs generally do not require a zoning permit, the
following exceptions do apply.
      (1)   Trailer signs. Trailer signs may only be used by new businesses.
They cannot remain on a site in excess of 30 days, nor be modified and used as
permanent signage.
      (2)   Portable sidewalk signs. Said signs cannot exceed a total sign
surface area of six square feet, may be displayed only during normal operating
hours of the business being advertised, and must be located within five feet of
such commercial building. They must meet wind safety standards set by the town,
and their placement upon a street right-of-way or public property must be
approved by the Board of Aldermen or its designee.
      (3)   Miscellaneous. Banners, banner type signs, pennants, streamers,
festoons of lights, flags, strings of twirlers or propellers, flares, balloons
and similar devices of a carnival nature may not be used in any one-year period
for more than a total of 30 days. Said devices such as banners and banner type
signs shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign surface area. In the event any of
the aforementioned devices are used to announce the opening of a new business,
such devices may remain on a site for an additional 30 days upon the opening of
such business. In addition, balloons, blimps and similar devices displayed at a
height greater than 20 feet shall not exceed 36 square feet of surface area as
seen at one time by a person from any vantage point. Surface area shall be
computed based on the diameter of such advertising balloon or the length and
width of such blimp. Said devices shall not exceed a display height of 50 feet
and shall be limited to no more than one such device per development.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.184 DETERMINING THE NUMBER OF SIGNS.
   (A)    For the purposes of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be any surface, fabric or device bearing lettered, pictorial or
sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public
view; or any structure (including billboard or poster panel) designed to carry
the above visual information. A sign contains an organized relationship of
elements designed to convey information.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of division (A) above, a multi-sided
sign shall be regarded as one sign as long as:
      (1)   With respect to V-type signs, the two sides are at no point
separated by a distance that exceeds five feet; and
      (2)   With respect to double-faced (back-to-back) signs, the distance
between the backs of each face does not exceed two feet.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.185 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)    The surface area of a sign shall be computed by including the entire
area that forms the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or
other display, forming a square, rectangle, triangle or circle as appropriate,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which it is placed. This does not include any supporting framework or
bracing that is clearly incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   If the sign consists of more than one section or module, all of the
area, including that between sections or modules, shall be included in the
computation of the sign area.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided for in §
153.184(B), the surface area of two-sided, multi-sided or three-dimensional
signs shall be computed by including the total of all sides designed either to
attract attention or communicate information that can be seen at one time by a
person from any vantage point. For example, with respect to a typical two-sided
sign where a message is printed on both sides of a flat surface, the sign
surface area of only one side (rather than the sum total of both sides) shall
be regarded as the total sign surface area of that sign, since one can see only
one side of the sign from any vantage point.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.186 TOTAL SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter, the total surface area
devoted to all signs on any lot shall not exceed the limitations set forth in
this section. Temporary signs shall not be included in this calculation.
Freestanding signs, while included in this calculation, are subject to maximum
sizes as contained in §
153.187.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in this subchapter or in §§
153.105 through
153.121, the maximum sign surface area permitted on any lot in a residential
zoning district is two square feet.
   (C)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, the maximum sign
surface area permitted on any lot in an agricultural, residential, commercial,
office and institutional, or industrial district as set forth in §§
153.050 through
153.053 shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   There may not be more than one square foot of sign surface area per
linear foot of street frontage up to 200 feet of frontage.
      (2)   There may be up to 0.25 square foot of additional sign surface area
per linear foot of lot frontage in excess of 200 feet.
   (D)   If a lot has frontage on more than one street, then the owner shall
designate which street frontage constitutes the primary street frontage of the
property and shall receive 100% of the allowable sign surface area for that
street. For that street frontage that is deemed to be secondary, the owner
shall receive up to 50% of the total sign surface area for that street
frontage.
   (E)   Whenever a lot is situated such that it has indirect street frontage
by means of a private driveway providing public access to said lot from a
public street, then the owner/developer of the lot shall be entitled to signage
on said street frontage as if the lot directly abutted that public street.
Frontage for such lots shall be determined by using the lot boundary line where
the private driveway providing principal access is located, as well as any
additional direct lot frontage that may exist. Indirect street frontage shall
not be included as part of the total sign surface area calculation for lots
that have direct frontage on the public street where the private driveway
intersects.
   (F)   The sign surface area of any sign located on a wall of a structure
shall not exceed 25% of the total surface area of the wall of a building from
end to end.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.187 FREESTANDING SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a side of a freestanding sign is any
plane or flat surface included in the calculation of the total sign surface
area as provided in §
153.185. For example, wall signs typically have one side. Freestanding signs
typically have two sides (back-to-back), although four-sided and other multi-
sided signs are also common.
   (B)   A single side of a freestanding sign may not exceed 0.75 square foot
in surface area for every linear foot of street frontage along the street
toward which such sign is primarily oriented. However, in no case may a single
side of a freestanding sign exceed 70 square feet in surface area if the lot on
which the sign is located has less than 200 feet of frontage on the street
toward which that sign is primarily oriented, 75 square feet on lots with 200
or more, but less than 400 feet of frontage, and 100 square feet on lots with
400 or more feet of frontage.
   (C)   With respect to freestanding signs that have no discernible "sides",
such as spheres or other shapes not composed of flat planes, no such
freestanding sign may exceed 0.5 square foot in total surface area for every
linear foot of street frontage along the street toward which such sign is
primarily oriented. However, in no case may such sign exceed 100 square feet in
surface area.
   (D)   Notwithstanding §
153.192, the owner/developer of a non-residential development located on a lot
that has indirect street frontage by means of a private driveway providing
public access to such lot from a public street shall be entitled to a
freestanding sign bearing the name of the development and/or its tenants on
said street frontage. Said sign shall be located either in the driveway access
area or in a designated sign easement area immediately adjacent to the
driveway. The freestanding sign shall not exceed a sign surface area of 50
square feet and shall be counted as part of the overall signage allotment for
the development. (A sign easement area shall not be included as part of the lot
frontage calculation, but shall remain a part of the lot frontage of the parcel
out of which the sign easement area was created.) In no case shall the
freestanding sign size exceed the total sign surface area permitted for that
lot based on the calculations prescribed in §
153.186.
   (E)   A ground sign is a freestanding sign attached to a permanently
affixed, solid structural base or planter box designed consistent with the
architectural features of the primary business, which base or box shall be no
more narrow than the message portion of the sign. Ground signs do not include
freestanding signs supported by poles. Total sign surface area (perimeter of
message portion of sign) shall not exceed the limitations set forth in §
153.186; provided, however, that in no case may the total sign surface area of
a ground sign and its structural base exceed 65 square feet, or six feet in
height if the lot on which the sign is located has less than 200 feet of
frontage on the street toward which the sign is primarily oriented, 100 square
feet or eight feet in height on lots with at least 200 feet but less than 400
feet of frontage, and 125 square feet, or ten feet in height on lots of 400
feet or more of frontage. In no event shall the height of a ground sign exceed
ten feet.
   (F)   In a commercial shopping center consisting of three or more units that
share common party walls, the developer or owner of the said shopping center or
building may determine the sign surface area requirements by following the
provisions outlined above in divisions (C) and (E) above concerning lot
frontage or by using a building frontage calculation in which one square foot
of signage is allowed for each square foot of tenant space or retail frontage.
   (G)   The sign surface area of any sign located on a wall of a structure
shall not exceed 25% of the total surface area of the wall of a building from
end to end.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.188 NUMBER OF FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)    Except as authorized by this section, no development may have more
than one freestanding sign.
   (B)   If a development is located on a corner lot that has at least 200 feet
of frontage on each of the two intersecting public streets, then the
development may have not more than one freestanding sign on each side of the
development bordered by such streets.
   (C)   If a development is located on a lot that is bordered by two public
streets that do not intersect at the lot's boundaries (double front lot), then
the development may not have more than one freestanding sign on each side of
the development bordered by such streets.
   (D)   If a development has more than 300 linear feet of frontage along a
single right-of-way boundary, a second freestanding sign may be permitted.
Multiple freestanding signs established in the same development must be
separated by a minimum of 100 linear feet.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.189 SUBDIVISION AND MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT ENTRANCE SIGNS.
   (A)    At any primary entrance to a subdivision or multi-family development
that is approved for less than 400 dwelling units and/or home sites, there may
be installed no more than one sign, not to exceed 50 square feet, identifying
such subdivision or development. Secondary entrances to said subdivisions or
multi-family developments may each have an identifying sign not to exceed 25
square feet.
   (B)   (1)   Within any master planned development or multi-family
development that is approved for between 400 and 749 dwelling units and/or home
sites, there may be installed within the development two types of
identification signs:
         (a)   Development identification signs; and
         (b)   Neighborhood identification signs.
      (2)   The development identification signs may identify the entire
development by name and/or symbol, and are limited to one at the primary
entrance, not to exceed 75 square feet, and one at each secondary entrance, not
to exceed 32 square feet each. Neighborhood identification signs, not to exceed
ten square feet each, may identify a named neighborhood within the development,
and are limited in total number to the number of intersections between streets
within the named neighborhood and streets not within the named neighborhood.
   (C)   (1)   Within any master planned development or multi-family
development that is approved for more than 750 dwelling units and/or home
sites, there may be installed within the development two types of
identification signs:
         (a)   Development identification signs; and
         (b)   Neighborhood identification signs.
      (2)   The development identification signs may identify the entire
development by name and/or symbol, and are limited to one at the primary
entrance, not to exceed 100 square feet, and one at each secondary entrance not
to exceed 32 square feet each. Neighborhood identification signs, not to exceed
ten square feet each, may identify a named neighborhood within the development,
and are limited in total number to the number of intersections between streets
within the named neighborhood and streets not within the named neighborhood.
   (D)   All signs regulated by this section shall be installed in a
professionally designed and maintained planting bed. A proposed planting plan
shall be submitted for approval as part of the required sign permit application
documents.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.190 LOCATION AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    No sign may extend above any parapet or be placed upon any roof
surface; except that, for purposes of this section, roof surfaces constructed
at an angle of 75 degrees or more from horizontal shall be regarded as wall
space. This division (A) shall not apply to displays, including lighting,
erected in connection with the observance of holidays on the roofs of
residential structures.
   (B)   No sign or supporting structure may be located in the traveled portion
of any public right-of-way unless the sign is attached to a structural element
of a building and an encroachment permit has been obtained from the town (and
from the state, if necessary).
   (C)   No part of a freestanding sign may exceed a height of 30 feet,
measured from the grade of the street from which access to the property is
provided.
   (D)   Unless otherwise permitted by this chapter, all freestanding signs
must be placed at least five feet from any public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.191 SIGN ILLUMINATION AND SIGNS CONTAINING LIGHTS.
   (A)    Unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter, signs may be illuminated
if such illumination is in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Lighting directed toward a sign shall be shielded so that it
illuminates only the face of the sign and does not shine directly into a public
right-of-way or residential premises. The reflection from such signs shall not
exceed 25% of the lumens directed toward the sign measured from the property
line of the lot upon which the sign is located.
   (C)   Internally illuminated freestanding signs may not be illuminated in
excess of one hour prior to or following the normal operating hours of the
business or enterprise.
   (D)   Subject to division (F) below, festoons of lights that outline
property lines, sales areas, rooflines, doors, windows or similar areas are
prohibited.
   (E)   Subject to division (F) below, no sign may contain, or be illuminated
by flashing lights or lights of changing degrees of intensity, except:
      (1)   Signs indicating the time, date and weather conditions; and
      (2)   Electronically illuminated signs that contain a fixed message or
screen that changes no more than once every 15 seconds. In addition, no more
than 50% of the maximum allowable sign area of any free-standing or wall sign
may be designated as an electronic illuminated sign, up to a maximum sign area
of 50 square feet. All such signs shall be reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Administrator prior to installation consistent with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Divisions (D) and (E) above do not apply to temporary signs erected in
connection with the observance of holidays.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-9-2018; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-
2021)
§ 153.192 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No off-premise sign may be located within 1,000 feet of any other off-
premise sign. No off-premises signs may be located within 1,000 feet of any
residential district unless all the following requirements are met:
      (1)   Said off-premise sign is to be located no less than 600 feet from a
residential district;
      (2)   Said off-premise sign is advertising a non-residential development
that has street frontage on a local street and desires off-premises signage on
an arterial street that is within 400 feet of the development;
      (3)   Said non-residential development may erect one off-premise sign
advertising said non-residential development;
      (4)   Said off-premise sign shall be calculated as part of the overall
sign surface area for the development as enumerated in §
153.186;
      (5)   Said off-premise sign must be located on property owned by the
requesting nonresidential development and/or community property owned by a
Property Owners Association (POA) that the non-residential development is a
member of such as a stormwater facility lot. Said off-premise sign may not be
located more than 400 feet from the nonresidential development;
      (6)   Said off-premise sign shall not exceed the size restrictions as
enumerated in §
153.187.
   (B)   No sign may be located so that it substantially interferes with the
view necessary for motorists to proceed safely through intersections or to
enter onto or exit from public streets or private roads.
   (C)   All signs must be constructed and erected in accordance with the
Southern Building Code and its related State Building Code amendments.
   (D)   No sign may be erected on town-maintained or private rights-of-way so
that by its location, color, size, shape, nature or message it would tend to
obstruct the view of or be confused with official traffic signs or other signs
erected by governmental agencies.
   (E)   Freestanding signs shall be securely fastened to the ground or to some
other substantial supportive structure so that there is virtually no danger
that either the sign or the supportive structure may be moved by the wind or
other forces of nature and cause injury to persons or property.
   (F)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be located in such a way that they
maintain horizontal and vertical clearance of all overhead electrical
conductors in accordance with the National Electrical Code; provided that, in
no case shall an outdoor advertising sign be erected closer than ten feet
horizontally or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
   (G)   Whenever an outdoor advertising sign or structure becomes structurally
unsafe, the Building Inspector shall give written notice to the owner of the
sign, or the owner of the premises on which the sign is located, that such sign
shall be made safe or removed within ten days of said notification. Further,
whenever an outdoor advertising structure has outlived any useful purpose for
which it was intended, it shall be removed forthwith.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-01, passed 5-11-2021; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-
8-2021)
PARKING
§ 153.205 BOARD FINDINGS CONCERNING THE NEED FOR VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREAS.
    The Board of Aldermen finds the development of vehicle accommodation areas
to be of public benefit and recognizes the importance of their design in
achieving the following objectives:
   (A)   To conserve energy, reduce glare and pollution, and provide for heat
abatement during summer months;
   (B)   To contribute to the preservation of open space and to provide maximum
pervious areas to retard storm water runoff;
   (C)   To promote the safe and efficient flow of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic; and
   (D)   To contribute to the visual enhancement of a development.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.206 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, unless otherwise specifically provided,
or unless otherwise clearly required by the context, the words and phrases
defined in this subchapter shall have the meaning herein set forth when used in
this subchapter. If a word or phrase used in this subchapter is not defined by
G.S. Ch. 160D or elsewhere in this chapter, to the extent such word or phrase
is defined in G.S. Ch. 160D, that definition shall control.
   CIRCULATION AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area used for
access to parking or loading areas or other facilities on the lot. Essentially,
driveways and other maneuvering areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the
CIRCULATION AREA.
   DRIVEWAY. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area that consists of a
travel lane bounded on either side by an area that is not part of the vehicle
accommodation area.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING AREA. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
used to satisfy the requirements of §
153.216.
   PARKING AREA AISLES. The portion of the vehicle accommodation area
consisting of lanes providing access to parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. A portion of the vehicle accommodation area set aside for the
parking of one vehicle.
   VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA. The portion of a lot that is used by vehicles
for access, circulation, parking and loading and unloading. It comprises the
total of circulation areas, loading and unloading areas, and parking areas.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.207 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)    All developments shall provide a sufficient number of parking spaces
to accommodate the number of vehicles that ordinarily are likely to be
attracted to the facility in question.
   (B)   (1)   The presumptions established by this subchapter are that:
         (a)   A development must comply with the parking standards set forth
in division (F) below to satisfy the requirement stated in division (A) above;
and
         (b)   Any development that does meet these standards is in compliance.
      (2)   However, the table of parking standards is only intended to
establish a presumption and should be flexibly administered, as provided in §
153.208.
   (C)   Uses in the table of parking requirements (division (F) below) are
indicated by a numerical reference keyed to the Table of Permissible Uses (§
153.080). When determination of the number of parking spaces required by this
table results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-half
or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half shall be
counted as one parking space.
   (D)   With respect to any parking lot that is required to be paved (see §
153.212), the number of parking spaces required by this article may be reduced
by one if the developer provides a bike rack or similar device that offers a
secure parking area for at least five bicycles.
   (E)   The Board of Aldermen recognizes that the table of parking
requirements set forth in division (F) below cannot and does not cover every
possible situation that may arise. Therefore, in cases not specifically
covered, the permit-issuing authority is authorized to determine the parking
requirements using this table as a guide.
   (F)   Table of parking requirements.
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                 Parking Requirement
Adult day care                      1 space per 8 participants
Amusement and recreation services,  1 per 400 sq. ft.
indoor
Artists, commercial including silk  1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
screening
Assembly Hall                       1 per 400 sq. ft. min or 1 per every 4 seats, whichever is
                                    greater
Automobile and truck dealers        1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Automobile renting and leasing      1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Automobile repair shop              1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area and 1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
                                    of display area
Automotive services, except repair  Per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area and 1 per 2,000 sq. ft. of
and towing                          display area
Banking services                    1 per 400 sq. ft.
Bowling alleys and pool halls       1 space per alley, plus requirements for any other use
                                    associated with the establishment, such as a restaurant
Building material dealers           1 per 400 sq. ft.
Business services                   1 per 400 sq. ft.
Carpet and upholstery cleaners      1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area and 1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
                                    of display area
Catalog stores                      1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area and 1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
                                    of display area
Child daycare                       1 space per 8 participants
Communications facilities           1 per 400 sq. ft.
Contractor’s equipment and supply 1 per 300 sq. ft.
dealers
Contractor’s office               1 per 300 sq. ft.
Contractor’s storage yard         1 per 300 sq. ft.
Cultural arts center                1 per 400 sq. ft.
Dormitory, private                  1 space per resident, plus 1 space per supervisor and staff
                                    person
Drive-in theater                    1 per 1,500 sq. ft. or 1 per 1.5 employees
Duplex                              2 spaces for each dwelling unit; except that, 1-bedroom units
                                    require only one space
Electric motor repair shop          1 per 400 sq. ft.
Family care home                    1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor and staff person
Farmer’s market, seasonal only    1 per 400 sq. ft.
Fraternity or sorority houses       1 space per resident, plus 1 space per supervisor and staff
                                    person
Golf course, private or public      50 spaces per 18 holes
Group day facilities                1 space per supervisor and staff person
Group home residential              1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor and staff person
Group home supportive, small        1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor
Group home supportive, large        1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor
Group home supportive, medium       1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor
Guest lodging                       1 space per guest room and 1 space per supervisor and staff
                                    person
Guns sales, including repair        1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area and 1 per 2,000 sq. ft.
                                    of display area
                                    1 space per each 2 licensed beds intended for patient use,
Hospitals, except animal hospitals  plus 1 space per each staff person, including medical and
                                    support staff based on the largest employee shift
Industrial                          1 per 1,500 sq. ft.
Kennels (breeders and boarders)     1 per 400 sq. ft.
Laboratories, testing               1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Launders, industrial                1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Libraries                           1 per 300 sq. ft.
Manufactured housing dealers        1 space per 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Medical, offices                    1 space per 250 sq. ft.
Mini-warehousing                    1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Mini-warehousing                    1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Motels and hotels                   1 space per guest room, plus 50% of the required space for any
                                    accessory uses
Motor freight companies             1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of non-office floor area, plus 1
                                    space per 300 sq. ft. office floor area
Motorcycle dealers                  1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Movers, van lines and storage       1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Movie theaters, except drive-in     1 space per 4 seats
Multi-family residence              2-1/2 spaces per dwelling unit, plus 1 additional space for
                                    every 4 units in the development
Night clubs, not contained in
restaurant, motels or similar       1 per 4 seats
business
Nursing and personal care           1 space per 4 beds and 1 space per supervisor and staff person
facilities
Offices, medical                    1 space per 250 sq. ft.
Offices, professional               1 per 300 sq. ft.
Package delivery services,          1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial
Parks and recreation areas,         1 per 400 sq. ft.
municipal
Personal services                   1 per 400 sq. ft.
Recreation facility, private        1 per 400 sq. ft.
Religious institutions              1 space per 4 seats
Repair shops, not elsewhere         1 per 400 sq. ft.
classified
Research and development            1 per 400 sq. ft.
laboratories
Restaurant: standard and fast food  1 per 4 seats or 1 per 80 sq. ft. of gross floor area
carry-out                           exclusive of kitchen and restroom facilities
Retail sales establishment          1 per 400 sq. ft.
Sales office, off-premises          1 per 1,500 sq. ft. or 1 per 1.5 employees
                                    1 space per 5 students, or 1 space for each 3 seats in
Schools: colleges and universities  auditoriums and other places of assembly or facilities
                                    available to the public, whichever is greater
Schools: correspondence and         1 space per 5 students, or 1 space for each 3 seats in
vocational                          auditoriums and other places of assembly or facilities
                                    available to the public, whichever is greater
Schools: elementary and junior high 1 space per teacher and staff person
                                    1 space per 5 students, or 1 space for each 3 seats in
Schools: secondary schools          auditoriums and other places of assembly or facilities
                                    available to the public, whichever is greater
                                    1 space per 5 students, or 1 space for each 3 seats in
Schools: specialty training         auditoriums and other places of assembly or facilities
                                    available to the public, whichever is greater
Service stations                    1 per 400 sq. ft.
Single-family residence             2 spaces, plus 1 per room rented (see “accessory uses”, §
                                    153.084)
Skating rink, roller or ice         1 per 400 sq. ft.
Small engine repair, except         1 per 400 sq. ft.
automotive
Social services, not elsewhere      1 per 300 sq. ft.
classified
Swimming pool, private              1 per 400 sq. ft.
Tattoo and body piercing            1 per 400 sq. ft.
Telecommunication facility          1 per 1,500 sq. ft.
unattended
Tire dealers and service            1 space per 500 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Towing services, automobile and     1 per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor area
truck
Used merchandise stores, except     1 per 400 sq. ft. min
automotive goods
Utility stations and plants outside 1 per 1,500 sq. ft. minimum or 1 per 1-1/2 employees
public rights-of-way
Veterinary services                 1 per 250 sq. ft.
Warehousing general                 1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Water transportation                1 per 1,500 sq. ft. minimum or 1 per 1-1/2 employees
Welding, repair                     1 per 400 sq. ft.
Wholesale trade, durable goods      1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Wholesale trade, non-durable goods, 1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
except liquefied bulk storage
Wholesale trade, non-durable goods  1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.208 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen recognizes that, due to the particularities of
any given development, the inflexible application of the parking standards set
forth in §
153.207(F) may result in a development either with inadequate parking space or
parking space far in excess of its needs. The former situation may lead to
traffic congestion or parking violations in adjacent streets as well as
unauthorized parking in nearby private lots. The latter situation results in a
waste of money as well as a waste of space that could more desirably be used
for valuable development or environmentally useful open space. Therefore, as
suggested in §
153.207(E), the permit-issuing authority may permit deviations from the
presumptive requirements of §
153.207(F) and may require more parking or allow less parking whenever it finds
that such deviations are more likely to satisfy the standard set forth in §
153.207(A).
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the permit-issuing
authority may allow deviations from the parking requirements set forth in §
153.207(F) when it finds that:
      (1)   A residential development is irrevocably oriented toward the
elderly;
      (2)   A residential development is located in close proximity to the
central business district and is committed to a policy of placing restrictions
on the vehicle ownership of its tenants;
      (3)   A business is primarily oriented to walk-in trade; or
      (4)   A residential or non-residential development is located within one
of the town's designated National Register historic districts.
   (C)   Whenever the permit-issuing authority allows or requires a deviation
from the presumptive parking requirements set forth in §
153.207(F), it shall enter on the face of the permit the parking requirement
that it imposes and the reasons for allowing or requiring the deviation.
   (D)   If the permit-issuing authority concludes, based upon information it
receives in the consideration of a specific development proposal, that the
presumption established by §
153.207(F) for a particular use classification is erroneous, it shall initiate
a request for an amendment to the table of parking requirements in accordance
with the procedures set forth in §§
153.435 through
153.441.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.209 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)    Subject to divisions (B) and (C) below, each parking space shall
consist of a rectangular area 18 feet long by nine feet wide. Lines demarcating
parking spaces may be drawn at various angles in relation to curbs or aisle, so
long as the parking spaces so created contain within them the rectangular area
required by this section.
   (B)   Wherever parking areas consist of spaces set aside for parallel
parking, the dimensions of such parking spaces shall be not less than 22 feet
by nine feet.
   (C)   Handicapped parking spaces shall comply with the dimensional
requirements found in the Southern Building Code with North Carolina
amendments.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.210 REQUIRED WIDTHS OF PARKING AREA AISLES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Aisle widths. Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the following
table which varies the width requirement according to the angle of parking:
 
                  Parking Angle
                  0 Degrees 30 Degrees 45 Degrees 60 Degrees 90 Degrees
Aisle width in feet:
 One-way traffic 13        11         13         18         24
 Two-way traffic 19        20         21         23         24
 
   (B)   Driveways for business or commercial installation.
      (1)   No driveway shall exceed 30 feet in width at the outer edge of the
driveway; however, driveways for business or commercial installations on state
highway system streets may be as much as 36 feet in width at the street edge of
the driveway, if such width is first approved by the appropriate representative
of the State Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, and if that
agency requests town concurrence in the greater width.
      (2)   All radii and/or angle of turnout of the driveway where it meets
the curb shall be as shown on the State Department of Transportation, Division
of Highways, standard being used.
      (3)   Not more than two driveways shall be permitted to serve one
business at the same location from one street. In such situations, the two
driveways shall be at least 30 feet apart.
      (4)   Any business or commercial establishment located at the
intersection of two or more streets, which desires a driveway into both
streets, shall construct the driveways so as not to be in conflict with
provisions of this or any other subchapters of this chapter or any other
section of the town code pertaining to the regulation of vehicle traffic.
      (5)   No driveway apron shall extend out into the street further than the
face of the curb.
      (6)   If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator and the Director of
Public Works, strict adherence to all dimensions herein set forth would create
a traffic management or safety problem in connection with a specific driveway
installation, a modification may be authorized by the Director if he is of the
opinion that the change would benefit the public and, further, be consistent
with the Department of Transportation's recommendations and requirements.
   (C)   Driveways for residences.
      (1)   No driveway for a residence shall exceed 18 feet in width nor be
less than 12 feet in width at the outer or street edge of the driveway.
      (2)   Residences shall not have more than two driveways; however, one
shared driveway up to, but not exceeding, 32 feet in width may be permitted.
      (3)   No driveway apron shall extend out into the street further than the
face of the curb.
      (4)   All radii and/or angle of turnout of the driveways where the same
meets the curb shall be as shown on the State Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways, standard being used.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.211 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Vehicle accommodation areas shall generally be designed with maximum
60-foot-wide bays, 90-degree parking stalls and two-way traffic aisles unless
such a design standard cannot be practicably accommodated on the site.
   (B)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be designed so that, without
resorting to extraordinary movements, vehicles may exit such areas without
backing onto a public street. This requirement does not apply to parking areas
consisting of driveways that serve one or two dwelling units.
   (C)   Every vehicle accommodation area shall be designed so that vehicles
cannot extend beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way. Such areas shall also be designed so that a minimum two
and one-half inch separation is maintained between the vehicle accommodation
area and any sidewalk or pedestrian access that is provided on site. (Note:
This separation may be achieved by providing a planting strip between the curb
line and the sidewalk or by extending the width of the sidewalk.) Sidewalks in
non-residential developments shall have a minimum width of four feet which
shall remain clear and unobstructed for the purposes of pedestrian access and
safety. Adequate clearance shall also be provided so as to prevent vehicles
from bumping against or damaging any wall, vegetation or other obstruction.
   (D)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall not exceed 360 square feet of paving
for each parking space.
   (E)   Circulation areas shall be designed so that vehicles can proceed
safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles and without
interfering with parking areas.
   (F)   In vehicle accommodation areas where curbing is located at the
perimeter of a parking area, wheel stops shall not be provided in addition to
the curbing on said perimeter. In said areas, the curb shall function as the
wheel stop.
   (G)   Vehicle accommodation areas in multi-family developments shall be
located a minimum of 15 feet from residential buildings within the development.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.212 VEHICLE ACCOMMODATION AREA SURFACES.
   (A)   (1)    Vehicle accommodation areas that:
         (a)   Include lanes for drive-in windows; or
         (b)   Contain parking areas that are required to have more than ten
parking spaces and that are used regularly at least five days per week shall be
graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other material that will provide
equivalent protection against potholes, erosion and dust.
      (2)   Specifications for surfaces meeting the standard set forth in this
division (A) are contained in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Vehicle accommodation areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified in division (A) above shall be graded and surfaced with
crushed stone, gravel or other suitable material (as provided in the
specifications) to provide a surface that is stable and will help to reduce
dust and erosion. The perimeter of such parking areas shall be defined by
bricks, stones, railroad ties or other similar devices. In addition, whenever
such a vehicle accommodation area abuts a paved street, the driveway leading
from such street to such area (or, if there is no driveway, the portion of the
vehicle accommodation area that opens onto such streets), shall be paved as
provided in division (A) above for a distance of 15 feet back from the edge of
the paved street. This division (B) shall not apply to single-family
residences, duplexes, multi-family residences consisting of two dwelling units,
homes for the handicapped or infirm or other uses that are required to have
only one or two parking spaces.
   (C)   Parking spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (A) above
shall be appropriately marked with painted lines or other markings. Parking
spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (B) above shall be marked
whenever practicable.
   (D)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be properly maintained in all
respects. In particular, and without limiting the foregoing, vehicle
accommodation area surfaces shall be kept in good condition (e.g., free from
potholes) and parking space lines or markings shall be kept clearly visible and
distinct.
   (E)   All vehicle accommodation areas shall meet the planting and screening
requirements set forth in §§
153.230 through
153.236 and
153.270 through
153.272 and any other applicable subchapter of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.213 JOINT USE OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)    One parking area may contain required spaces for several different
uses, but, except as otherwise provided in this section, the required space
assigned to one use may not be credited to any other use.
   (B)   To the extent that developments that wish to make joint use of the
same parking spaces operate at different times, the same spaces may be credited
to both uses. For example, if a parking lot is used in connection with an
office building Monday through Friday, but is generally 90% vacant on weekends,
another development that operates only on weekends could be credited with 90%
of the space on that lot; or, if a church parking lot is generally occupied
only to 50% of capacity on days other than Sunday, another development could
make use of 50% of the church lot's spaces on those other days.
   (C)   If the joint use of the same parking spaces by two or more principal
uses involves satellite parking spaces, then the provisions of §
153.214 are also applicable.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.214 SATELLITE PARKING.
   (A)    If the number of off-street parking spaces required by this
subchapter cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot where the principal
use associated with these parking spaces is located, then spaces may be
provided on adjacent or nearby lots in accordance with the provisions of this
section. These off-site spaces are referred to in this section as "satellite"
parking spaces.
   (B)   All such satellite parking spaces (except spaces intended for employee
use) must be located within 600 feet of a public entrance of a principal use
associated with such parking provided, such land is in the same ownership as
the principal use, or the owner of the principal use shall have a lease,
license or easement to him or her as lessee, licensee or grantee, subjecting
such land to parking use in connection with the principal use for which it is
made available, for a period equal to, or in excess of, the reasonable physical
depreciable life of the structure or structures to be served by such parking,
as determined by the Zoning Administrator. Said land shall be used for no other
purpose so long as no other adequate provisions of parking space meeting the
requirements of this chapter have been made for the principal use. In such
cases, the applicant for a zoning permit for the principal use shall submit
with his or her application for a zoning permit an instrument duly executed and
acknowledged, which subjects said land to parking use in connection with the
principal use for which it is made available. Said instrument shall be
submitted to the Town Attorney and shall not be accepted by the Zoning
Administrator as satisfactory until the Town Attorney has endorsed his or her
approval on same in writing. The applicant shall deposit the necessary
recording fee and, upon the issuance of a zoning permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall cause said instrument to be registered in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the county, unless said instrument shall have been
recorded.
   (C)   Persons who obtain satellite parking spaces in accordance with this
section shall not be held accountable for ensuring that the satellite parking
areas from which they obtain their spaces satisfy the design requirements of
this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.215 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR LOTS WITH EXISTING BUILDINGS.
    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever:
   (A)   There exists a lot with one or more structures on it constructed
before the effective date of this chapter;
   (B)   A change in use that does not involve any enlargement of a structure
is proposed for such lot; and
   (C)   The parking requirements of §
153.207 that would be applicable as a result of the proposed change cannot be
satisfied on such lot because there is not sufficient area available on the lot
that can practicably be used for parking, then the developer need only comply
with the requirements of §
153.207 to the extent that:
      (1)   Parking space is practicably available on the lot where the
development is located; and
      (2)   Satellite parking space is reasonably available as provided in §
153.214.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.216 LOADING AND UNLOADING AREAS.
   (A)    Whenever the normal operation of any development requires that goods,
merchandise or equipment be routinely delivered to or shipped from that
development, a sufficient off-street loading and unloading area must be
provided in accordance with this section to accommodate the delivery or
shipment operations in a safe and convenient manner.
   (B)   The loading and unloading area must be of sufficient size to
accommodate the numbers and types of vehicles that are likely to use this area,
given the nature of the development in question. The following table indicates
the number and size of spaces that, presumptively, satisfy the standard set
forth in this division (B). However, the permit-issuing authority may require
more or less loading and unloading area if reasonably necessary to satisfy the
foregoing standard.
Gross Leasable Area of Building (square feet) Number of Spaces*
Gross Leasable Area of Building (square feet) Number of Spaces*
1,000–19,999                                1
20,000–79,999                               2
80,000–127,999                              3
128,000–191,000                             4
192,000–255,999                             5
256,000–319,999                             6
320,000–391,999                             7
NOTES TO TABLE:

Plus 1 for each additional 72,000 square feet or fraction thereof.

*Minimum dimensions of 12 feet by 55 feet with 14 feet height clearance from
street grade required.
 
   (C)    Loading and unloading areas shall be so located and designed that the
vehicles intended to use them can:
      (1)   Maneuver safely and conveniently to and from a public right-of-way;
and
      (2)   Complete the loading and unloading operations without obstructing
or interfering with any public right-of-way or any parking space or parking lot
aisle.
   (D)   No area allocated to loading and unloading facilities may be used to
satisfy the area requirements for off-street parking, nor shall any portion of
any off-street parking area be used to satisfy the area requirements for
loading and unloading facilities.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.217 NO PARKING TO BE INDICATED NEAR FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Whenever a fire hydrant is located adjacent to any portion of a vehicle
accommodation area required to be paved under §
153.212(A), the pavement shall be clearly marked to indicate that parking
within 15 feet of such hydrant is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
SCREENING
§ 153.230 BOARD FINDINGS CONCERNING THE NEED FOR SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
    The Board of Aldermen finds that:
   (A)   Screening between two lots lessens the transmission from one lot to
another of noise, litter, dust and glare of lights;
   (B)   Screening can lessen the visual impact of competing incompatible land
uses that are found in an urbanized area. Screening can provide an impression
of a separation of spaces and can be used to provide transitional zones between
industrial, commercial and residential developments;
   (C)   Screening can establish a greater sense of privacy from visual or
physical intrusion, the degree of privacy varying with the intensity of the
screening;
   (D)   Screening can be used as an effective element of site plan development
by shielding visually disturbing site features such as vehicle accommodation
areas, loading and unloading areas, mechanical systems and trash receptacles;
and
   (E)   The provisions of this part are necessary to safeguard the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.231 GENERAL SCREENING STANDARD.
    Every development shall provide sufficient screening so that:
   (A)   Neighboring properties are shielded from any adverse external effects
of that development; and
   (B)   The development is shielded from the negative impacts of adjacent,
incompatible land uses.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.232 COMPLIANCE WITH SCREENING STANDARD.
   (A)   The table set forth in §
153.234, in conjunction with the explanations in §
153.233 concerning the types of screens, establishes screening requirements
that, presumptively, satisfy the general objectives listed in §
153.230 and the standards established in §
153.231.
   (B)   The table of screening requirements set forth in §
153.234 indicates the type of screening that may be required between two land
uses. The table lists the site features in a typical development that require
screening and bases the screening type required on the location of the site
feature on the lot and its distance from the property line. The table provides
letter designations that are keyed to the screening types that are described in
§
153.233 and gives the minimum width requirements and, in certain cases, the
required location for the screening.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.233 DESCRIPTIONS OF SCREENS.
   The following three basic types of screens are hereby established and are
used as the basis for the table of screening requirements as set forth in §
153.234.
   (A)   Opaque screen, type A. A screen that is opaque from the ground to a
height of at least six feet, with intermittent visual obstructions from the
opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet. An opaque screen is intended to
exclude completely all visual contact between uses and to create a strong
impression of spatial separation. The opaque screen may be composed of a wall,
fence, planted earth berm, planted vegetation, existing vegetation or any
combination thereof. For every linear 100 feet, or fraction thereof, the screen
shall consist of an average of three canopy type trees, each with a minimum
caliper of two inches. Said trees in five years shall reach a height of at
least 20 feet and shall have an average canopy spread of 15 feet. The opaque
portion of the screen must be opaque in all seasons of the year. If shrubbery
is used, said shrubbery shall be evergreen plant materials and be spaced to
provide a solid screen in two years. If fences or walls are used, said fences
or walls shall be masonry, wood, metal or other suitable materials (not to
include chain-link fencing) and shall have architectural character and be of
substantial materials. A graphic illustration of the sample planting pattern is
included in §§
153.285 through
153.290.
   (B)   Semi-opaque screen, type B. A screen that is opaque from the ground to
a height of three feet, with intermittent visual obstruction from above the
opaque portion to a height of at least 20 feet. The semi-opaque screen is
intended to partially block visual contact between uses and to create a strong
impression of the separation of spaces. The semi-opaque screen may be composed
of a wall, fence, planted earth berm, planted vegetation, existing vegetation
or any combination thereof. For every linear 100 feet, or fraction thereof, the
screen shall consist of an average of two canopy type trees, each with a
minimum caliper of two inches. Said trees in five years shall reach a height of
at least 20 feet and shall have an average canopy spread of 15 feet. The opaque
portion of the screen must be opaque in all seasons of the year. If shrubbery
is used, said shrubbery shall be evergreen plant materials and be spaced to
provide a solid screen in two years. If fences or walls are used, said fences
or walls shall be masonry, wood, metal or other suitable materials (not to
include chain-link fencing) and shall have architectural character and be of
substantial materials. A graphic illustration of a sample planting pattern is
included in §§
153.285 through
153.290.
   (C)   Broken screen, type C. A screen composed of intermittent visual
obstructions from the ground to a height of at least 20 feet. The broken screen
is intended to create the impression of a separation of spaces without
necessarily eliminating visual contact between the spaces. It may be composed
of a wall, fence, planted earth berm, planted vegetation, existing vegetation
or any combination thereof. For every linear 100 feet, or fraction thereof, the
screen may consist of a combination of at least two canopy or ornamental type
trees, each having a minimum caliper of at least two inches, and shrubbery
three feet in height that covers an average of 20% of the screen area, or five
canopy or ornamental type trees, each having a minimum caliper of two inches. A
graphic illustration of a sample planting pattern is included in §§
153.285 through
153.290.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.234 TABLE OF SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   There is hereby established a table of screening requirements as follows:
Site Feature to be Screened Screen Type* Screen Width Location
Site Feature to be   Screen Type* Screen Width          Location
Screened
Commercial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area 25 feet to 50   B, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Commercial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area greater than 50 B, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Commercial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area less than 25    A, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Industrial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area less than 25    A, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Industrial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area 25 feet to 50   B, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Industrial building/
parking area/service                                    Property line with
area greater than 50 B, C         10 feet minimum       building/optional with
feet from property                                      other site features
line
Multi-family                      10 feet minimum/
building/parking                  length to equal       Property line with
area/service area    B, C         building length, plus building/optional with
greater than 50 feet              50 feet when dealing  other site features
from property line                with building
Multi-family                      10 feet minimum/
building/parking                  length to equal       Property line with
area/service area 25 B, C         building length, plus building/optional with
feet to 50 feet from              50 feet when dealing  other features
the property line                 with building
Multi-family                      10 feet minimum/
building/parking                  length to equal       Property line with
area/service area    A, C         building length, plus building/optional with
less than 25 feet                 50 feet when dealing  other features
from property line                with building
Separation zone
between non-
residential          C            10 feet minimum       Property line
developments and
street right-of-way
Separation zone
between industrial
and/or commercial
developments located
along 50 feet of     B            10 feet minimum       Property line
property line
perpendicular to
street right-of-way
line
NOTES TO TABLE:

*Screen type: A-Opaque screen, B-Semi-opaque screen, C-Broken screen. “A, C”
means that a type A opaque screen must be used when the land use abuts a
residential land use and a type C broken screen must be used when the land use
abuts any other land use (i.e., another industrial, commercial, or multi-
family land use). “B, C” means that a type B screen must be used when the land
use abuts a residential land use and a type C screen must be used when the
land use abuts any other land use. Note: In the case of multi-family, only a
type B screen may be used when adjacent to commercial or industrial uses.
Graphic illustrations of screening placement are provided in §§
153.285 through
153.290 of this chapter.
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.235 FLEXIBILITY IN ADMINISTRATION REQUIRED.
   The Board recognizes that because of the wide variety of types of
developments and the relationships between them, it is neither possible nor
prudent to establish inflexible screening requirements. Therefore, the permit-
issuing authority may permit deviations from the presumptive requirements of §
153.234.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.236 SPECIAL SCREENING CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
153.234, any new development or substantial improvement to a property which
occurs within one of the town's established office and institutional districts
shall require the installation of a semi-opaque screen on the property when
said use abuts a residential use and a broken screen when said use abuts any
other land use to provide a visual separation between the new development and
adjacent developments. For purposes of this chapter, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
shall be defined as any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure
within any 12-month period, where the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure. A substantial improvement is considered to occur when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other alteration affects
the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state and
local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary
to ensure safe living conditions.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, zoning setback requirements take
precedence over screening requirements.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
TREE PRESERVATION
§ 153.250 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and control the planting and
removal of trees.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.251 BOARD FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY ON TREE PRESERVATION.
    The Board of Aldermen finds the preservation of trees to be of public
interest and recognizes the importance of these resources in achieving the
following objectives:
   (A)   To conserve energy and retard storm water runoff while aiding in
noise, glare and heat abatement;
   (B)   To safeguard and enhance property values and to protect public and
private investment;
   (C)   To contribute to the preservation of an area or site's unique sense of
place;
   (D)   To provide visual buffering and enhance town beautification efforts
which contribute to the quality of life of a given area; and
   (E)   To prevent the indiscriminate removal of significant trees and
facilitate their replacement in certain developments and areas within the town.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.252 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term REGULATED TREE shall mean:
   (A)   The subsurface roots, crown and trunk of any self-supporting woody
plant such as a large shade tree or pine tree, which usually has one main stem
or trunk, and has a measured caliper as follows:
      (1)   A hardwood tree: eight inches, such as an oak, maple and the like;
and
      (2)   A pine tree: 12 inches, such as loblolly pine.
   (B)   Any small flowering tree, such as dogwood, with a measured caliper of
at least four inches; and
   (C)   Any tree having several stems or trunks, such as crepe myrtle, and at
least one defined stem or trunk with a measured caliper of at least two inches.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.253 TREE PRESERVATION AND REPLACEMENT IN NEW NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS
AND RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of achieving the objectives outlined in § 153.251,
the town shall require all non- residential developments or residential
subdivisions in excess of one acre, approved and/or developed after the
effective date of this chapter, to provide for the preservation or replacement
of regulated trees on the subject site. The following minimum standards shall
be applied in determining the required extent of tree preservation or
replacement.
         (a)   The total number of regulated trees to be retained should be at
least 15 trees per acre.
         (b)   If there are less than 15 regulated trees per acre on the site,
then the difference shall be replaced with new or existing smaller trees, to a
total of 15 trees per acre equaling at least two caliper inches per tree
planted or retained.
         (c)   If there are no regulated trees on the site, then at least 15
new or existing trees per acre equaling at least two caliper inches per tree
shall be planted or retained.
         (d)   In the event a developer clear cuts a lot or tract and has
failed to provide a site plan to the permit-issuing authority in accordance
with division (B) below, he or she shall be required to plant 23 trees per
acre, each with a minimum caliper of two inches.
         (e)   A developer shall be eligible for a waiver of the 15 trees per
acre standard if he or she retains at least ten regulated trees per acre.
      (2)   Regulated trees that are retained may be used to fulfill some of
the planting requirements of street yard, parking facilities or screening;
provided they are not damaged by construction activities or the intended use of
the property.
   (B)   All non-residential developments shall be required to submit to the
permit-issuing authority a site plan as part of the development approval
process. In the case of developments involving major non- residential
subdivisions, the site plan shall be submitted as part of the general plan.
Said site plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the site;
address of development site; name, address and telephone number of the
applicant if contractor or agent of the property owner;
      (2)   If required, site plan showing existing site conditions and
location of trees to be removed;
      (3)   The dimensions of the parcel to be developed, together with the
existing and/or proposed locations of structures and improvements, existing
and/or proposed utility services, roadways, bikeways, walkways and parking
areas;
      (4)   The location, caliper and species of all regulated trees to be
retained, or new trees to be planted in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter; and
      (5)   Any proposed grade changes which might adversely affect or endanger
any regulated tree to be retained with a statement of how the tree is to be
protected and maintained in accordance with §§
153.255 and
153.285 through
153.290.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy for any non-residential development shall
be issued and no final plat approval for any residential subdivision in excess
of one acre shall be granted until the property owner or developer has complied
with the minimum standards set forth in division (A) above.
   (D)   If any new, retained or regulated tree shown on the approved site plan
dies or is removed by the developer within one year after the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy or the granting of final plat approval, it shall be
replaced by planting a new tree having a minimum caliper of two inches. In
residential subdivisions, replacement of dead trees within the established one-
year period shall be the responsibility of the developer, regardless of whether
or not the new, retained, or regulated trees are on public or private property.
However, the planting of said replacement trees by the developer shall be
restricted to those areas in the development reserved for usable open space, as
detailed in §§ 153.160 through 153.166. In the event the property in a
residential subdivision is sold and a subsequent owner removes a regulated or
required tree or said tree dies, the developer who initially planted said tree
shall not be required to replace said tree.
   (E)   The retention or protection of regulated trees unreasonably burdens a
development if, to accomplish such retention or protection, the desired
location of improvements on a lot or the proposed activities on a lot would
have to be substantially altered and such alteration would work an unreasonable
hardship upon the developer. In said cases, the Zoning Administrator may permit
deviations from the presumptive requirements of division (A)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.254 PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR REMOVAL OF TREES IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)    No person, directly or indirectly, shall remove any regulated tree
from public or private property within one of the town's established National
Register and locally designated historic districts, or within any existing non-
residential development (regardless of whether it extends beyond the one-year
period established in §
153.253), without first obtaining a tree removal permit.
   (B)   All persons seeking a permit for removal of a regulated tree shall
submit an application in writing to the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Applications for tree removal shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner of the site; address of development
site; name, address, and telephone number of applicant if contractor or agent
of the property owner;
      (2)   Description of regulated tree(s), including species, size and
reason for removal; and
      (3)   If required, a site plan showing existing site conditions and
location of tree(s) to be removed.
   (D)   (1)   No tree removal permit shall be issued unless one or more of the
following criteria are met:
         (a)   The regulated tree is dead, severely diseased, injured or in
danger of falling close to existing or proposed structures;
         (b)   The regulated tree is causing disruption to existing utility
service or causing drainage or passage problems upon the right-of-way;
         (c)   The regulated tree is posing an identifiable threat to
pedestrian or vehicular safety;
         (d)   The regulated tree violates state or local safety standards;
         (e)   Removal of the regulated tree is necessary to enhance or benefit
the health or condition of adjacent trees or property; and
         (f)   The regulated tree restricts the allowable use of the property.
      (2)   A tree removal permit shall be issued for a qualified application
as cited above and shall apply to the specifics of that request.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all properly submitted
applications for tree removal permits and shall grant or deny a permit in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   No person shall engage in the partial or total harvesting of timber by
the practices known respectively as "thinning" or "clearcutting" of any site
within the planning jurisdiction of the town without first obtaining a zoning
permit from the Zoning Administrator. For the purposes of this chapter,
THINNING shall be defined as an intermediate harvest in a forest stand that
reduces tree density and competition for the benefit of remaining trees
intended to be harvested at a later date. THINNING shall also be defined as the
removal of selected trees from a site for the purpose of non-forestry-related
site development, excluding tree cutting necessary for maintenance of existing
utilities or the control of diseases and pests. CLEARCUTTING shall be defined
as any activity that involves the total removal of trees from a tract of land
for the purpose of harvesting and regeneration or non-forestry-related site
development. Zoning permits for "thinning" and "clearcutting" shall be
subjected to the following requirements, supplementing the provisions of §
153.253:
      (1)   (a)   For tracts of land that are greater than one acre, but not
more than five acres, in size, the owner/developer shall retain a minimum 25-
foot tree/vegetation buffer along all property lines, except those adjoining
other lands devoted to recognized timber-harvesting operations (i.e.,
activities that follow a forestry management plan and exercise established
agricultural best management practices (BMPs)) at the time of thinning or
clearcutting. The 25-foot buffer shall consist of a combination of regulated
trees and understory (underbrush) vegetation. For purposes of this division (F)
(1), REGULATED TREES shall be defined as any tree that meets or exceeds the
average caliper size calculated for the forest stand under consideration for
timber harvesting. (Note: In situations where the number of regulated trees in
a given buffer is less than the retention standard found in the chart below,
trees that come closest to meeting the dbh standard for the given tract shall
be considered "regulated trees" for the purpose of satisfying this
requirement.) Average tree size shall be determined by measuring trees at four
and one-half feet above ground (commonly referred to as diameter breast height
(dbh)). The minimum number of regulated trees retained per linear 100 feet of a
25-foot wide buffer shall be in accordance with the following graduated scale
based on the forest stand's average dbh:
 
Average dbh in Forest Stand (In Inches) Minimum # of Regulated Trees Retained
                                        in Buffer
12 and over                             5
 
         (b)    Retained regulated trees shall be evenly distributed throughout
the buffer area. The buffer shall also consist of naturally growing understory
(underbrush) vegetation that has the effect of providing additional screening.
Such understory (underbrush) vegetation shall remain in an undisturbed state,
to the extent practicable to allow for the removal of selected trees in the
designated buffer area. Further, timber harvesting in the buffer will be
authorized at such time as the understory trees reach the average dbh standards
listed on the above scale or following receipt by the permit-issuing authority
of a site development plan that meets the requirements of this chapter.
            1.   The intent of this division (F)(1) is to:
               a.   Lessen the impact of timber harvesting activities on
surrounding properties;
               b.   Provide for ongoing reforestation of the buffer in a manner
that ensures the health of the trees; and
               c.   Provide an opportunity to incorporate existing vegetation
into a future site development scheme.
            2.   This division (F)(1) shall not apply to a lot on which a
single-family residential structure has been or is to be constructed.
      (2)   (a)   For tracts of land that are greater than five acres in size,
the owner/developer shall retain a minimum 50-foot tree/vegetation buffer along
all property lines that abut a residential use or residential zoning district.
A 25-foot tree/vegetation buffer shall be retained along all other property
lines, except those adjoining other lands devoted to recognized timber-
harvesting operations at the time of thinning or clearcutting. The 50-foot
buffer shall consist of a combination of regulated trees and understory
(underbrush) vegetation. For purposes of this division (F)(2), REGULATED TREES
shall be defined as any tree that meets or exceeds the average caliper size
calculated for the forest stand under consideration for timber harvesting.
(Note: In situations where the number of regulated trees in a given buffer is
less than the retention standard found in the chart below, trees that come
closest to meeting the dbh standard for the given tract shall be considered
"regulated trees" for the purpose of satisfying this requirement.) Average tree
size shall be determined by measuring trees at four and one-half feet above
ground (commonly referred to as diameter breast height (dbh)). The minimum
number of regulated trees retained per linear 100 feet of a 50-foot wide buffer
shall be in accordance with the following graduated scale based on the forest
stand's average dbh:
 
Average DBH in Forest Stand (In Inches) Minimum # of Regulated Trees Retained
                                        in Buffer
12 and over                             9
 
         (b)   1.    Retained regulated trees shall be evenly distributed
throughout the buffer area. The buffer shall also consist of naturally growing
understory (underbrush) vegetation that has the effect of providing additional
screening. Such understory (underbrush) vegetation shall remain in an
undisturbed state, to the extent practicable to allow for the removal of
selected trees in the designated buffer area. Further timber harvesting in the
buffer will be authorized at such time as the understory trees reach the
average dbh standards listed on the above scale or following receipt by the
permit-issuing authority of a site development plan that meets the requirements
of this chapter.
            2.   The intent of this division (F)(2) is to:
               a.   Lessen the impact of timber harvesting activities on
surrounding properties;
               b.   Provide for ongoing reforestation of the buffer in a manner
that ensures the health of the trees; and
               c.   Provide an opportunity to incorporate existing vegetation
into a future site development scheme.
      (3)   In lieu of the retention of existing trees and understory
(underbrush) vegetation in the case of clearcutting activities as outlined
under divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above, the owner/developer shall have the
option of removing all said trees and understory vegetation from the site and
installing a newly planted buffer. The owner/developer shall install a type
"A", opaque screen, as defined in §
153.233, along all property lines that abut a residential use or residential
zoning district. A type "C", broken screen, as defined in §
153.233, shall be installed along all other property lines where a buffer is
required under divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above. Said screen shall be
installed within three months of the completion of clearcutting activities in
the designated buffer zone area. Said plant buffer shall be planted within ten
feet of the property line, unless site conditions dictate otherwise in which
case the buffer shall be installed at the closest possible point to the
property line. In the case of ongoing timber harvesting operations where
replanting is to occur, seedlings planted for the purpose of harvest shall not
be planted within the 25-foot and 50-foot buffer zones.
      (4)   (a)   In the event a tract of land proposed for clearcutting is
located adjacent to a developed tract of land that already has a buffer in
place that meets the standards for screening set forth in §
153.233, the Zoning Administrator may waive all or part of the buffering
requirement along the property line abutting said development if he or she
finds that:
            1.   The adjoining property buffer is established to such a degree
that it completely excludes all visual contact between uses and creates a
strong impression of spatial separation; and
            2.   Adequate legal mechanisms are in place to ensure the
preservation of the buffer for the life of the development.
         (b)   If, however, an owner of timberland which abuts a developed
tract of land decides to develop his or her property after clearcutting the
same, but before new growth forms a suitable buffer between the two tracts of
land, the forest owner/developer must provide an acceptable opaque screen, as
prescribed by §
153.233, along the line of his or her property adjoining the developed tract of
land.
      (5)   If no site plan for development or forestry management/tree
replanting plan is submitted in conjunction with the application of a zoning
permit for total harvesting of a site, the owner/developer of said property
shall replant a minimum of 23 trees per acre, each with a minimum caliper of
two inches, at the time the site is developed. This requirement shall run with
the land until the property is initially developed, regardless of any change in
ownership. The intent of this replanting requirement is to discourage the
wholesale removal of trees from the site in an effort solely to market or make
the property available for development without providing an opportunity to
incorporate existing vegetation in the development scheme. This division (F)(5)
shall not apply to recognized timber-harvesting operations where more intensive
tree replanting is to occur.
      (6)   The owner/developer shall be responsible for leaving the site in a
clean condition with all major limbs, stumps and excess debris removed. (Note:
Stump and limb removal will not be required if retention of such timber debris
is a necessary part of the forest regeneration process in accordance with an
established forestry management plan or BMP.) The intent of this provision is
to discourage the retention of timbering debris on-site which could pose a fire
hazard in developed areas.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.255 PROTECTION OF REGULATED TREES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Aldermen recognizes the importance of adequately
protecting trees during the construction phase of developments. To this end, no
excavation or other subsurface disturbances may be undertaken within the
critical root zone of a tree. The critical root zone is defined as the ground
area around a tree trunk with a radius (in feet) that is twice the diameter of
the tree (in inches) measured at breast height (e.g., a ten-inch diameter tree
requires a 20-foot radius of protection). Said critical root zone shall be
marked by means of a barrier fence that meets the design construction standards
contained in §§
153.285 through
153.290.
      (2)   In cases where, because of utility extension, sidewalk installation
or other site improvements, it is neither prudent nor possible to avoid land
disturbance activity in the critical root zone area, the developer shall, upon
consultation with the Zoning Administrator and town groundskeeper, be
responsible for providing the town with a root disturbance mitigation plan
which shall outline a specific course of action for minimizing damage to a
tree's root system.
   (B)   If space that would otherwise be devoted to parking cannot be so used
because of the requirements of division (A) above and, as a result, the parking
requirements set forth in §§
153.205 through
153.217 cannot be satisfied, the number of required spaces may be reduced by
the number of spaces "lost" up to a maximum of 15% of the required spaces.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.256 SHADE TREES IN PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   (1)    Vehicle accommodation areas that are required to be paved
hereby must be shaded by canopy type trees (either retained or planted by
developer).
      (2)   When trees are planted by the developer to satisfy the requirements
of this division (A) above, the developer shall choose trees that meet the
standards set forth in §§
153.285 through
153.290.
   (B)   For purposes of achieving the objectives of this section, parking lots
shall be designed so that one tree planting area is provided for every ten
parking spaces (as further outlined herein).
   (C)   Trees planted or retained shall be located in an area of at least 162
square feet of unpaved pervious area (the equivalent of one standard nine feet
by 18 feet parking space).
   (D)   Vehicle accommodation areas shall be laid out and detailed to prevent
vehicles from striking trees. Vehicles will be presumed to have a body overhang
of three feet six inches.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
PLANTING
§ 153.270 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term PLANTING shall mean any live plant
material such as trees, shrubs, ground cover and grass used in spaces void of
any impervious material or building structure, areas left in their natural
state or areas where mulch is used as ground cover.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.271 BOARD FINDINGS CONCERNING THE NEED FOR PLANTING REQUIREMENTS.
    The Board of Aldermen finds that:
   (A)   Planting has an important impact on better control of flood problems,
soil erosion, air and noise pollution and making the town a healthier, safer
and more aesthetically pleasing place in which to live and work;
   (B)   Planting is an invaluable physical, aesthetic and psychological
element of the urban setting, making urban life more comfortable by providing
shade and cooling;
   (C)   Planting can serve as screening which can provide an impression of
separation of spaces and a greater sense of privacy from visual or physical
intrusion;
   (D)   Planting has an important role in filtering wastewater passing through
the ground from the surface to groundwater tables and lower aquifers;
   (E)   For the reasons indicated in division (B) above, planting has an
important impact on the desirability of land and consequently on property
values; and
   (F)   The provisions of this part are necessary to safeguard the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.272 COMPLIANCE WITH PLANTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    A planting plan on all commercial, office and institutional,
industrial, multi-family, planned unit developments and non-residential uses in
a residential district shall be required according to the following minimum
specifications:
      (1)   Of developments less than one acre, 20% of the total lot area shall
be planted;
      (2)   Of developments of one acre or more, 25% of the total lot area
shall be planted;
      (3)   Of developments of two acres or more, 20% of the total lot area
shall be planted; and
      (4)   Of developments of three acres or more, 15% of the total lot area
shall be planted.
   (B)   Planting plans shall be prepared by a landscape architect licensed in
the state or persons with a minimum of three years' experience in the
preparation of planting plans for commercial developments. Planting plans shall
be drawn at the same scale as the site plan or larger. Said planting plan may
be found on the site plan.
   (C)   All areas that call for grass planting on a planting plan shall be
planted in accordance with generally accepted practices.
   (D)   Parking areas in all commercial, office and institutional, industrial,
multi-family, non-residential uses in a residential district and planned unit
developments which have ten or more parking spaces shall be planted as follows.
      (1)   (a)   For every ten spaces provided, one planting area of not less
than nine feet by 18 feet shall be required. This area shall either be spaced
between each ten parking spaces or otherwise randomly combined or spaced within
the parking area to provide a planting area which shall be planted consistent
with good design standards as provided in this subchapter.
         (b)   The intent of this division (D)(1) is to provide uniform
planting of trees and other plant material within a parking area, rather than
have all required planting space combined into one area or along the perimeter
of the parking lot.
      (2)   Subject to §
153.256, there shall be one tree no less than two inches in caliper for each
nine feet by 18 feet planting area. The type of tree and the planting must be
consistent with good design standards as provided in this subchapter and §§
153.285 through
153.290.
      (3)   Each planting area provided in accordance with division (D)(1)
above may be counted as one parking space when computing the number of parking
spaces required by §§
153.205 through
153.217.
      (4)   Shrubbery, hedges and other live plant material may be used to
complement the tree planting, but shall not be substituted for the tree.
      (5)   Landscape plantings used in parking areas as required in this
division (D) and §
153.256 of this chapter may be used in satisfying the planting requirements of
division (A) above.
   (E)   The owners, their heirs and assigns shall be responsible for
protecting and maintaining all planting in a healthy growing condition,
replacing it when necessary, and keeping it free of refuse and debris.
   (F)   All planting plans shall provide the following general information.
      (1)   Approximate locations of all required plant material to be planted
on the site.
      (2)   Information on the quantity and caliper of all trees to be planted
or retained on the site.
   (G)   The Chief Building Inspector may not issue a permanent certificate of
occupancy for an approved site-specific development plan or part thereof, until
all required seeding, trees and plant material have been placed in accordance
with the approved planting plan. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued for a period of up to 180 days under extenuating circumstances that
would affect the seeding or planting of the site or until the proper planting
season is reached to complete the planting requirements. The Zoning
Administrator may require the developer to provide an irrevocable letter of
credit to the town to cover the costs of planting prior to the Building
Inspector's issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
GUIDE FOR LANDSCAPING
§ 153.285 GUIDE FOR PROTECTING EXISTING TREES.
   (A)    Section
153.253 provides for the retention and protection of regulated trees when land
is developed.
   (B)   To improve the chances of survival of existing trees, the following
guidelines have been established:
      (1)   Protect trees with fencing and armoring during the entire
construction period in accordance with §
153.290;
      (2)   Avoid compaction of the soil around existing trees due to heavy
equipment. Do not pile dirt or other building materials and equipment in the
critical root zone of the tree;
      (3)   Keep fires or other sources of extreme heat well clear of existing
trees; and
      (4)   Injured trees must be thoroughly watered during the ensuing growing
year.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.286 STANDARDS FOR STREET AND PARKING LOT TREES.
   (A)   Trees planted in compliance with the requirements of §§
153.255 and
153.256 shall have most or all of the following qualities.
   (B)   The trees recommended in §
153.290 represent the best combinations of these characteristics:
      (1)   Hardiness;
      (2)   Resistance to extreme temperatures;
      (3)   Resistance to drought;
      (4)   Resistance to storm damage;
      (5)   Resistance to air pollution;
      (6)   Resistance to insects and disease;
      (7)   Ability to survive physical damage from human activity;
      (8)   Foliage and branching;
      (9)   Wide-spreading habit; and
      (10)   Relatively dense foliage for maximum shading.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.287 TYPICAL PARKING LOT PLANTING ISLANDS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fc71a5fa1df97232c563c9bf1efbcb8534229e4c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1239.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.288 GUIDE FOR PLANTING TREES.
   (A)   The trees recommended in §
153.290 have minimal maintenance requirements. However, all trees must receive
a certain degree of care, especially during and immediately after planting.
   (B)   To protect an investment in new trees, the developer should ensure
that the following guidelines are followed when planting:
      (1)   The best times for planting are early spring and early fall. Trees
planted in the summer run the risk of dehydration.
      (2)   Plant all trees at least three and one-half feet from the end of
head-in parking spaces to prevent damage from car overhangs.
      (3)   Provide a no work zone around the tree to prevent damage to the
plant and compaction of the soil.
      (4)   In digging a tree pit, excavate to a depth that approximates the
height of the root ball. The top of the root ball should be level with or
slightly above grade.
      (5)   The width of the tree pit should be no less than twice the diameter
of the root ball.
      (6)   The bottom of the tree pit should be undisturbed soil.
      (7)   Spread at least three inches of mulch over the entire excavation in
order to retain moisture and keep down weeds. This layer of mulch should be
pulled away from the trunk of the tree to prevent rot.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.289 GUIDE FOR PLANTING SHRUBS.
   (A)   Shrubs planted for screening purposes should be given a proper culture
and sufficient room in which to grow. Many of the guidelines for tree planting
listed in §
153.288 also apply to shrubs. However, because specific requirements vary
considerably between shrub types, this subchapter does not attempt to
generalize the needs of all shrubs.
   (B)   For detailed information on individual plant species refer to:
      (1)   Dirr, Michael A. Manual of Woody Landscape Plants: Their
Identification, Ornamental Characteristics, Culture, Propagation, and Use.
Champaign, Illinois: Stipes Publishing Company, 1990 (revised edition); and
      (2)   Whitcomb, Carl E., Ph.D. Know It and Grow It: A Guide to the
Identification and Use of Landscape Plants in the Southern States. Tulsa,
Oklahoma: Oil Capital Printing Company, 1978.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.290 LIST OF RECOMMENDED TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The following lists indicate plantings which will meet the
screening and shading requirements of §§
153.230 through
153.236 and
153.250 through
153.257. The lists are by no means comprehensive and are intended merely to
suggest the types of flora which would be appropriate for screening and shading
purposes. Plants were selected for inclusion on these lists according to four
principal criteria:
         (a)   General suitability for the climate and soil conditions of this
area;
         (b)   Ease of maintenance;
         (c)   Tolerance of town conditions; and
         (d)   Availability from area nurseries.
      (2)   When selecting new plants for a particular site, a developer should
first consider the types of plants which are thriving on or near the site.
However, if an introduced species has proven highly effective for screening or
shading in this area, it too may be a proper selection.
   (B)   Small trees for partial screening.
      (1)   Trident maple;
      (2)   Flowering dogwood;
      (3)   Saucer magnolia;
      (4)   Camellia sasanqua;
      (5)   Carolina cherry-laurel;
      (6)   Assorted holly species;
      (7)   Eastern redbud;
      (8)   Crepe-myrtle;
      (9)   River birch;
      (10)   Yaupon;
      (11)   Pistache;
      (12)   Sweet bay magnolia; and
      (13)   Vitex.
   (C)   Shade trees for evergreen screening.
      (1)   Southern magnolia;
      (2)   Loblolly pine;
      (3)   Live oak; and
      (4)   Deodara cedar.
   (D)   Shade trees for deciduous screening.
      (1)   Assorted maple species;
      (2)   Assorted oak species;
      (3)   Zelkova;
      (4)   Honey locust;
      (5)   Sweet gum;
      (6)   Sycamore;
      (7)   Bald cypress;
      (8)   Pecan;
      (9)   Beech; and
      (10)   Ginko (male).
   (E)   Small shrubs for evergreen screening.
      (1)   Azalea;
      (2)   Dwarf holly;
      (3)   Assorted camellia;
      (4)   Eleagnus;
      (6)   Dwarf yaupon;
      (7)   Boxwood;
      (8)   Juniper; and
      (9)   Nandina.
   (F)   Large shrubs for evergreen screening.
      (1)   Red tip photinia;
      (2)   Wax-myrtle;
      (3)   Yaupon;
      (4)   Privet;
      (5)   Formosa azalea;
      (6)   Euonymus;
      (7)   Eleagnus;
      (8)   Osmanthus; and
      (9)   Assorted holly species.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
§ 153.305 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD MEMBERS.
   (A)    There shall be a Planning and Zoning Board consisting of seven
members. Five members, appointed by the Board of Aldermen, shall reside within
the town. Two members, appointed by the County Board of Commissioners, shall
reside within the town's extraterritorial planning area. If the County Board
fails to make these appointments within 90 days after receiving a resolution
from the Board of Aldermen requesting that they be made, the Town Board may
make them. Members may be removed by the appointing authority at any time for
failure to attend three consecutive meetings without excuse or for failure to
attend 30% or more of the meetings within any 12-month period or, after a
hearing, for other good cause related to performance of duties. All members
shall have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in banking,
economics, environmental and land use policy, housing or industry. The Board of
Aldermen may establish reasonable procedures to solicit, review, and make
appointments.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Board members shall be appointed for three-year
staggered terms, but members may continue to serve until their successors have
been appointed. All appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired
terms only.
   (C)   All members may participate in and vote on all issues before the
Board, regardless of whether the issue affects property within the town or
within the extraterritorial planning area.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.306 MEETINGS OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall establish a regular meeting
schedule and shall meet frequently enough so that it can take action in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall conduct its meetings in accordance
with the quasi-judicial procedures set forth in §§
153.305 through
153.309,
153.320 through
153.325 and
153.340 through
153.363 when it is considering a matter for which an evidentiary hearing is
required under this chapter or by law.
   (C)   Minutes shall be kept of all Planning and Zoning Board meetings.
   (D)   All Planning and Zoning Board meetings shall be open to the public and
the agenda for each board meeting shall be made available in advance of the
meeting.
   (E)   Whenever the Planning and Zoning Board is called upon to make
recommendations concerning a special use permit request or amendments to
previously approved subdivision plats or a zoning amendment proposal, the
planning staff shall post on or near the subject property one or more notices
that are sufficiently conspicuous in terms of size, location and content to
provide reasonably adequate notice to potentially interested persons of the
matter that will appear on the Planning and Zoning Board's agenda at a
specified date, time and place. Such notice(s) shall be posted at least seven
calendar days prior to the meeting at which the matter is to be considered.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.307 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)    A quorum for the Planning and Zoning Board shall consist of five
members if there are no vacant seats. A quorum is necessary for the Planning
and Zoning Board to take official action.
   (B)   All actions of the Planning and Zoning Board shall be taken by
majority vote, a quorum being present.
   (C)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.308 POWERS AND DUTIES OF PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD.
   (A)    The Planning and Zoning Board may:
      (1)   Make studies and recommend to the Board of Aldermen plans, goals
and objectives relating to the growth, development and redevelopment of the
town and the surrounding extraterritorial planning area;
      (2)   Develop and recommend to the Board of Aldermen policies,
ordinances, administrative procedures and other means for carrying out plans in
a coordinated and efficient manner;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Board of Aldermen concerning proposed
special use permits and proposed zoning map changes;
      (4)   Make recommendations to the Board of Adjustment concerning proposed
special use permits upon request from the Board of Adjustment; and
      (5)   Perform any other duties assigned by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this
chapter may be adopted by the Town's Board of Aldermen for the Planning and
Zoning Board. In the absence of action by the town's Board of Aldermen, the
Planning and Zoning Board is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure
that are consistent with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D. A copy of any adopted
rules of procedure shall be maintained by the Town's Clerk and shall be posted
on the town's website.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.309 ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
   (A)    From time to time, the Board of Aldermen may appoint one or more
individuals to assist the Planning and Zoning Board in carrying out its
responsibilities with respect to a particular subject area. By way of
illustration, without limitation, the Board of Aldermen may appoint advisory
committees to consider the thoroughfare plan, revitalization plans, housing
plans, economic development plans.
   (B)   Members of such advisory committees shall sit as non-voting members of
the Planning and Zoning Board when such issues are being considered and shall
lend their talents, energies and expertise to the Planning and Zoning Board.
However, all formal recommendations to the Board of Aldermen shall be made by
the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board of Aldermen from
establishing independent advisory groups, committees or commissions to make
recommendations on any issue directly to the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.320 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)    There shall be a Board of Adjustment consisting of consisting of
seven regular members and two alternate members. Five regular members,
appointed by the Board of Aldermen, shall reside within the town. Two regular
members, appointed by the County Board of Commissioners, shall reside within
the town's extraterritorial planning area. Two alternate members, appointed by
the Board of Alderman, shall reside within the town. If the County Board of
Commissioners fails to make an appointment within 90 days after receiving a
resolution from the town requesting that an appointment be made, the Board of
Aldermen may make the appointment. Upon expansion or reduction of the town's
extraterritorial planning area, the Board of Aldermen shall review the impact
of such change on the extraterritorial membership of the Board of Adjustment
and, if necessary, make appropriate adjustments in the number of
extraterritorial members. Members may be removed by the appointing authority at
any time for failure to attend three consecutive meetings without excuse or for
missing more than 30% of the meetings within any 12-month period or for other
good cause related to performance of duties. Because the Board of Adjustment
primarily conducts evidentiary hearings using quasi-judicial proceedings,
members shall have the ability to read and understand complex land ownership
and development issues. Members should have backgrounds related to land
ownership and development issues (i.e., law, real estate, banking, building,
environmental groups, governmental agencies, community organizations and the
like). The Board of Aldermen may establish reasonable procedures to solicit,
review, and make appointments.
   (B)   (1)   Board of Adjustment members shall be appointed for three-year
staggered terms, but members may continue to serve until their successors have
been appointed.
      (2)   All appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms
only.
   (C)   All regular members may participate in and vote on all issues before
the Board. Alternate members shall only serve in the absence of regular
members.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.321 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall establish a regular meeting schedule and
shall meet frequently enough so that it can take action in conformity with this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall use the quasi-judicial procedures set forth in §§
153.305 through
153.309,
153.320 through
153.325 and
153.340 through
153.363 when it is considering a matter for which an evidentiary hearing is
required under this chapter or by law.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the public
and the agenda for each Board meeting shall be made available in advance of the
meeting.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept of all Board of Adjustment meetings.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.322 QUORUM.
   (A)    A quorum for the Board of Adjustment shall consist of six members.
   (B)   A quorum is necessary for the Board to take official action.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.323 VOTING.
   (A)   The concurring vote of four-fifths of the members shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator or the Town Building Inspector, or to grant a variance from the
provisions of this chapter. All other actions of the Board of Adjustment shall
be taken by majority vote, a quorum being present.
   (B)   Once a member is physically present at a Board meeting, any subsequent
failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the member has
been excused in accordance with division (C) below or has been allowed to
withdraw from the meeting in accordance with division (D) below.
   (C)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present under the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the member has a conflict of interest that would violate §
153.330;
      (2)   If the matter at issue involves the member's own official conduct;
or
      (3)   If participation in the matter might violate the letter or spirit
of a member's code of professional responsibility.
   (D)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member's desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at the meeting.
   (E)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused from
the remainder of the meeting is in order only if made by or at the initiative
of the member directly affected.
   (F)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.324 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)    The Board of Adjustment shall elect one of its members to serve as
Chairperson who shall preside over the Board's meetings and one member to serve
as Vice-Chairperson. The persons so elected shall serve a term of one year or
until their terms expire, whichever comes first. The Chairperson may succeed
himself or herself.
   (B)   The Chairperson or any member temporarily acting as Chairperson may
administer oaths to witnesses coming before the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson may take part in all
deliberations and vote on all issues.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect one of its members to serve as
Secretary of the Board of Adjustment. The person so elected shall serve a term
of one year or until their terms expire, whichever comes first.
   (E)   The Secretary may take part in all deliberations and vote on all
issues.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.325 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)    The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide:
      (1)   Appeals from any order, decision, requirement or interpretation
made by the Zoning Administrator, as provided in §
153.395;
      (2)   Applications for variances, as provided in §
153.376;
      (3)   Questions involving interpretations of the zoning map, including
disputed district boundary lines and lot lines, as provided in §
153.377; and
      (4)   Any other matter the Board is required to act upon by any other
town ordinance.
   (B)   Rules of procedure that are consistent with the provisions of this
chapter may be adopted by the Town's Board of Aldermen for the Board of
Adjustment. In the absence of action by the Town's Board of Aldermen, the Board
of Adjustment is authorized to adopt its own rules of procedure that are
consistent with the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D. A copy of any adopted rules of
procedure shall be maintained by the Town's Clerk and shall be posted on the
Town's website.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
MISCELLANEOUS BOARD REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.330 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Town Aldermen. A Town Alderman shall not vote on any legislative
decision regarding a development regulation under this chapter where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the Alderman.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Board and Adjustment Board of Adjustment. Members
of the Planning and Zoning Board and Adjustment Board of Adjustment shall not
vote on any advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation
under this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member.
   (C)   Administrative staff.
      (1)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision regarding a development regulation under this chapter if the outcome
of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person
subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff member has
a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to
the supervisor of the staff person or to such other staff person as may be
designated by the Ordinance Administrator.
      (2)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town,
as determined by the town.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. When a board is exercising quasi-judicial
functions pursuant to this chapter, board members shall not participate in or
vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected
persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having:
      (1)   A fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible
to change;
      (2)   Undisclosed ex parte communications;
      (3)   A close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person; or
      (4)   A financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on a particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
board shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a CLOSE FAMILIAL
RELATIONSHIP means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.331 OATH.
   Each person appointed to any board under this chapter shall, before entering
his or her duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as required by G.S. §
160A-61.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.332 QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Process required. Boards shall follow quasi-judicial procedures as
directed in this chapter, and in any event in determining appeals of
administrative decisions and variances.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice of evidentiary hearings conducted pursuant
to this chapter shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal,
application, or request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the
hearing; to the owners of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that
is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive
notice as provided by this chapter. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
the town may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least
ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within
that same time period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. The Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has
been convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set
for a given date and a quorum of the Board is not then present, the hearing
shall be continued until the next regular meeting of the Board without further
advertisement.
   (C)   Administrative materials. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit to
the Board all applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the
matter being considered. The administrative materials may be distributed to the
members of the Board prior to the hearing if at the same time they are
distributed to the Board a copy is also provided to the appellant or applicant
and to the landowner if that person is not the appellant or applicant. The
administrative materials shall become a part of the hearing record. The
administrative materials may be provided in written or electronic form.
Objections to inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be made
before or during the hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections shall be made by
the Board at the hearing.
   (D)   Presentation of evidence. The applicant, the town, and any person who
would have standing to appeal the decision shall have the right to participate
as a party at the evidentiary hearing. Other witnesses may present competent,
material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as allowed by the
Board.
   (E)   Objections. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including, but not limited to, the timeliness of an appeal or the
standing of a party, may be made to the Board. The Board Chair shall rule on
any objections, and the Chair's rulings may be appealed to the full Board.
These rulings are also subject to judicial review pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1402.
Objections based on jurisdictional issues may be raised for the first time on
judicial review.
   (F)   Appearance of official new issues. The official who made the decision
or the person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no
longer employed by the town, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a
witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters stated in
a notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the Board shall
continue the hearing.
   (G)   Oaths. The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the
clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board determining a quasi-judicial matter, willfully
swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (H)   Subpoenas. The Board making a quasi-judicial decision under this
chapter through the Chair or, in the Chair's absence, anyone acting as Chair
may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence. To request
issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, the town, and any person with standing
may make a written request to the Chair explaining why it is necessary for
certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The Chair shall issue requested
subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and scope,
and not oppressive. The Chair shall rule on any motion to quash or modify a
subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chair may be immediately
appealed to the full Board. If a person fails or refuses to obey a subpoena
issued pursuant to this section, the Board or the party seeking the subpoena
may apply to the General Court of Justice for an order requiring that its
subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders
after notice to all proper parties.
   (I)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this section, vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
under §
153.330 shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of the
requisite majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take the
place of such members.
   (J)   Decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts and make its
decision within a reasonable time. When hearing an appeal, the Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be based upon competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record. Each quasi-judicial decision
shall be reduced to writing, reflect the Board's determination of contested
facts and their application to the applicable standards, and be approved by the
Board and signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the Board. A
quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the
clerk to the Board. The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or first-class mail to
the applicant, landowner, and any person who has submitted a written request
for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person
required to provide notice shall certify to the town that proper notice has
been made, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of
fraud.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
PERMITS AND VESTED RIGHTS
§ 153.340 PERMITS REQUIRED; NO OCCUPANCY, USE OR SALE OF LOTS UNTIL
REQUIREMENTS FULFILLED.
   (A)   (1)    Subject hereto, no person shall commence or proceed with
development without first securing approval from the town as herein provided.
      (2)   Zoning permits, special use permits and sign permits are issued in
writing under this chapter in respect to plans submitted by the applicant that
demonstrate compliance with the ordinance provisions contained herein. Such
plans as are finally approved are incorporated into any permit issued in
reliance thereon, and, except as otherwise provided in §
153.356, all development shall occur strictly in accordance with such approved
plans.
      (3)   A zoning permit, special use permit or sign permit shall be issued
in the name of the applicant (as defined in §
153.341), and shall identify the property involved and the proposed use, shall
incorporate by reference the plans submitted and shall contain any special
conditions or requirements lawfully imposed by the permit-issuing authority.
   (B)   Issuance of a special use or zoning permit authorizes the recipient to
commence the activity resulting in a change in use of the land, or (subject to
obtaining a building permit) to commence work designed to construct, erect,
move or substantially alter buildings or other substantial structures, or to
undertake activities not specifically prescribed by ordinance, but which are
deemed to reflect the intent of the ordinance. However, except as provided in
§§
153.346,
153.352 and
153.353, the intended use may not be commenced, no building may be occupied,
and no activities not specifically prescribed by ordinance may be undertaken
until all of the requirements of this chapter and/or all additional
requirements imposed pursuant to the issuance of a special use permit have been
complied with.
   (C)   An approval made pursuant to this chapter attaches to and runs with
the land.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.341 WHO MAY SUBMIT PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)    Permit applications will be accepted only from the landowner, a
lessee or person holding an option to purchase or contract to purchase the land
or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder may also apply for
development approval for such development as is authorized by the easement.
   (B)   The town may require an applicant to submit evidence of his or her
authority to submit the application in accordance with division (A) above
whenever there appears to be a reasonable basis for questioning this authority.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.342 APPLICATIONS TO BE COMPLETE.
   (A)    All applications for zoning, special use, or sign permits must be
completed before the permit-issuing authority is required to consider the
application.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, an application is complete when it
contains all of the information that is necessary for the permit-issuing
authority to decide whether or not the development, if completed as proposed,
will comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   In this chapter, detailed or technical design requirements and
construction specifications relating to various types of improvements (streets,
sidewalks and the like) are set forth in one or more of the appendices to this
chapter. It may not be necessary that the application contain the type of
detailed construction drawings that would be necessary to determine compliance
with these appendices, so long as the plans provide sufficient information to
allow the permit-issuing authority to evaluate the application in the light of
the substantive requirements set forth in this text. However, whenever the
permit- issuing authority under this chapter requires a certain element of a
development to be constructed in accordance with the detail requirements set
forth in one or more of these appendices, then no construction work on such
element may be commenced until detailed construction drawings shall have been
submitted to and approved by the Zoning Administrator and/or the Chief Building
Inspector or his or her designee. Failure to observe this requirement may
result in permit revocation, denial of final subdivision plat approval or other
penalty as provided in §§
153.415 through
153.420.
   (D)   The presumption established by this chapter is that all of the
information set forth in this chapter is necessary to satisfy the requirements
of this section. However, it is recognized that each development is unique, and
therefore the permit-issuing authority may allow less information or require
more information to be submitted according to the needs of the particular case.
For applications submitted to the Board of Aldermen or Board of Adjustment, the
applicant may rely in the first instance on the recommendations of the Zoning
Administrator as to whether more or less information than that set forth in
this chapter should be submitted.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall make every effort to develop
application forms, instructional sheets, checklists or other techniques or
devices to assist applicants in understanding the application requirements and
the form and type of information that must be submitted. In classes of cases
where a minimal amount of information is necessary to enable the Zoning
Administrator to determine compliance with this chapter, such as applications
for zoning permits to construct single- family houses or duplexes, or
applications for sign permits, the Zoning Administrator shall develop standard
forms that will expedite the submission of the necessary plans and other
required information.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.343 STAFF CONSULTATION BEFORE FORMAL APPLICATION.
   (A)    To minimize development planning costs, avoid misunderstanding or
misinterpretation, and ensure compliance with the requirements of this chapter,
pre-application consultation between the developer and the planning staff is
encouraged or required as provided in this section.
   (B)   Before submitting an application for a special use permit authorizing
a development that consists of or contains a major subdivision, the developer
shall consult with the planning staff.
   (C)   Before submitting an application for any other permit, developers are
strongly encouraged to consult with the planning staff concerning the
application of this chapter to the proposed development.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.344 STAFF CONSULTATION AFTER APPLICATION SUBMITTED.
   (A)    Upon receipt of a formal application for a zoning, special use
permit, or minor plat approval, the Zoning Administrator shall review the
application and confer with the applicant to ensure that he or she understands
the planning staff's interpretation of the applicable provisions of this
chapter, that he or she has submitted all of the information that he or she
intends to submit, and that the application represents what he or she proposes
to do.
   (B)   If the application is for a special use permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall place the application on the agenda of the appropriate
board after the applicant indicates that the application is as complete as he
or she intends to make it. If the Zoning Administrator believes that the
application is incomplete, he or she shall recommend to the appropriate board
that the application be denied on that basis.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.345 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)    A complete application form for a zoning permit shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator by filing a copy of the application with the Zoning
Administrator in the Planning and Inspections Department.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue the zoning permit unless he or
she finds, after reviewing the application, that:
      (1)   The requested permit is not within his or her jurisdiction
according to the table of permissible uses;
      (2)   The application is incomplete; or
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the development will
not comply with one or more requirements of this chapter (not including those
requirements imposed when a variance has been granted or those the applicant is
not required to comply with under the circumstances specified in §§
153.030 through
153.038).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.346 AUTHORIZING USE OR OCCUPANCY BEFORE COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT UNDER
ZONING PERMIT.
    In cases when, because of weather conditions or other factors beyond the
control of the zoning permit recipient (exclusive of financial hardship), it
would be unreasonable to require the zoning permit recipient to comply with all
of the requirements of this chapter prior to commencing the intended use of the
property or occupying any buildings, the Zoning Administrator may notify the
Building Inspector that the applicant may be allowed to commence the intended
use or the occupancy of buildings (insofar as the requirements of this chapter
are concerned) if the permit recipient provides a performance bond, cash funds,
letter of credit, real estate of equal value or other security satisfactory to
the Administrator to ensure that all of the requirements of this chapter will
be fulfilled within a reasonable period (not to exceed 12 months). In general,
satisfactory security shall be reasonably liquid and shall equal 120% of the
value of the improvements. Final authorization to issue a certificate of
occupancy or commence the use of a property rests with the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.347 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a special use permit shall be submitted to the
Board of Aldermen by filing a copy of the application with the Zoning
Administrator in the Planning and Inspections Department.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen shall conduct an evidentiary hearing on the
application using the quasi-judicial procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The burden of presenting a complete application to the Board of
Aldermen shall be upon the applicant. However, unless the Board informs the
applicant at the hearing in what way the application is incomplete and offers
the applicant an opportunity to complete the application (either at that
meeting or at a continuation hearing), the application shall be presumed to be
complete.
   (D)   Subject to division (E) below, the Board of Aldermen shall issue the
special use permit upon finding that:
      (1)   The requested permit is within its jurisdiction according to the
table of permissible uses;
      (2)   The application is complete;
      (3)   If completed as proposed in the application, the development will
comply with all of the requirements of this chapter;
      (4)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed according to the plan as submitted;
      (5)   The use will not substantially reduce the value of adjoining or
abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
      (6)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of development of
the town.
   (E)   The Board shall then grant a special use permit with the concurring
vote of three-fifths of the members if all of the requirements of division (D)
above have been met; and shall deny the permit if any of the requirements of
division (D) above have not been met.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.348 RECOMMENDATIONS ON SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   When presented to the Board of Aldermen at the hearing, the
application for a special use permit shall be accompanied by a report setting
forth the planning staff's proposed findings concerning the application's
compliance with §
153.342 and the other requirements of this chapter, as well as any staff
recommendations for additional requirements to be imposed by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   If the staff proposes a finding or conclusion that the application
fails to comply with §
153.342 of this chapter or any other requirement of this chapter, it shall
identify the requirement in question and specifically state supporting reasons
for the proposed findings or conclusions.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.349 COMPLETING DEVELOPMENTS IN PHASES.
   (A)   If a development is constructed in phases or stages in accordance with
this section, then, subject to division (C) below, the provisions of §§
153.340 and
153.352 (exceptions to §
153.340) shall apply to each phase as if it were the entire development.
   (B)   As a prerequisite to taking advantage of the provisions of division
(A) above, the developer shall submit plans that clearly show the various
phases or stages of the proposed development and the requirements of this
chapter that will be satisfied with respect to each phase or stage.
   (C)   If a development that is to be built in phases or stages includes
improvements that are designed to relate to, benefit or be used by the entire
development (such as a swimming pool or tennis courts in a residential
development) then, as part of his application for development approval, the
developer shall submit a proposed schedule for completion of such improvements.
The schedule shall relate completion of such improvements to completion of one
or more phases or stages of the entire development. Once a schedule has been
approved and made part of the permit by the permit-issuing authority, no land
may be used, no buildings may be occupied and no subdivision lots may be sold,
except in accordance with the schedule approved as part of the permit; provided
that, if the improvement is one required by this chapter, then the developer
may utilize provisions of §
153.352(A) or (B).
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.350 EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire two years after
the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
substantially commenced. If after commencement the work or activity allowed
under a permit is discontinued for a period of 12 months after commencement,
the permit shall immediately expire.
   (B)   (1)   The permit-issuing authority may extend for a period up to six
months the date when a permit would otherwise expire pursuant to divisions (A)
or (B) above if it concludes that:
         (a)   The permit has not yet expired;
         (b)   The permit recipient has proceeded with due diligence and in
good faith; and
         (c)   Conditions have not changed so substantially as to warrant a new
application.
      (2)   Successive extensions may be granted for periods up to six months
upon the same findings. All such extensions may be granted without resort to
the formal processes and fees required for a new permit.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the permit within the jurisdiction of
the Board of Aldermen or the Board of Adjustment is issued when such Board
votes to approve the application and issue the permit. A permit within the
jurisdiction of the Zoning Administrator is issued when a copy of the fully
executed permit is delivered to the permit recipient, and delivery is
accomplished when the permit is hand delivered or mailed to the permit
applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.351 AMENDMENTS TO AND MODIFICATIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Insignificant deviations from the permit (including approved plans)
issued by the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Adjustment or the Zoning
Administrator are permissible and the Zoning Administrator may authorize such
insignificant deviations. A deviation is insignificant if it has no discernible
impact on neighboring properties, the general public or those intended to
occupy or use the proposed development. Such deviation shall be documented in
writing and submitted to the appropriate permit-issuing authority.
   (B)   Minor design modifications or changes in permits (including approved
plans) are permissible with the approval of the permit-issuing authority. Such
permission may be obtained without a formal application, public hearing or
payment of any additional fee. For purposes of this section, MINOR DESIGN
MODIFICATIONS OR CHANGES are those that have no substantial impact on
neighboring properties, the general public or those intended to occupy or use
the proposed development.
   (C)   All other requests for changes in approved plans will be processed as
new applications. If such requests are required to be acted upon by the Board
of Aldermen or Board of Adjustment, new conditions may be imposed in accordance
with §
153.351, but the applicant retains the right to reject such additional
conditions by withdrawing his or her request for an amendment and may then
proceed in accordance with the previously issued permit.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether amendments to and
modifications of permits fall within the categories set forth above in
divisions (A), (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   A developer requesting approval of changes shall submit a written
request for such approval to the Zoning Administrator, and that request shall
identify the changes. Approval of all changes must be given in writing.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.352 RECONSIDERATION OF BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Whenever Board of Adjustment disapproves an application for a special
use permit or a variance, on any basis other than the failure of the applicant
to submit a complete application, such action may not be reconsidered by the
respective board within a six-month period unless the applicant clearly
demonstrates that:
      (1)   Circumstances affecting the property that is the subject of the
application have substantially changed;
      (2)   New information is available that could not with reasonable
diligence have been presented at a previous hearing. A request to be heard on
this basis must be filed with the Zoning Administrator within the time period
for an appeal to superior court (see §
153.420). However, such a request does not extend the period within which an
appeal must be taken;
      (3)   The Board erred in its decision-making due to a misinterpretation
of the submitted evidence.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the Board of Aldermen or Board of
Adjustment may at any time consider a new application affecting the same
property as an application previously denied. A new application is one that
differs in some substantial way from the one previously considered.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.353 APPLICATIONS TO BE PROCESSED EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   Recognizing that inordinate delays in acting upon appeals or applications
may impose unnecessary costs on the appellant or applicant, the town shall make
every reasonable effort to process appeals and permit applications as
expeditiously as possible, consistent with the need to ensure that all
development conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.354 MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREAS, IMPROVEMENTS AND FACILITIES.
   The recipient of any zoning, special use or sign permit, or his or her
successor, shall be responsible for maintaining all common area improvements,
or facilities required by this chapter or any permit issued in accordance with
its provisions, except in those areas, improvements or facilities with respect
to which an offer of dedication to the public has been accepted by the
appropriate public authority. As illustrations, and without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, this means that private driveways and parking
areas, water and sewer lines, and recreational facilities must be properly
maintained so that they can be used in the manner intended, and required
vegetation and trees used for screening, planting or shading must be replaced
if they die or are destroyed.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.355 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure
allowing a landowner to apply for the right to develop land in accordance with
a previously approved site-specific development (as defined herein).
   (B)   Vested rights.
      (1)   Amendments in land development regulations are not applicable or
enforceable without the written consent of the owner with regard to any of the
following:
         (a)   Buildings or uses of buildings or land for which a development
permit application has been submitted and subsequently issued in accordance
with G.S. § 143-755.
         (b)   Subdivisions of land for which a development permit application
authorizing the subdivision has been submitted and subsequently issued in
accordance with G.S. § 143-755.
         (c)   A site-specific vesting plan.
         (d)   A multi-phased development.
      (2)   A vested right established by the terms of a development agreement
authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 10.
      (3)   The establishment of a vested right under any subdivision of this
section does not preclude vesting under one or more other subdivisions of this
Subsection or vesting by application of common law principles. A vested right,
once established as provided for in this section or by common law, precludes
any action by the town that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or
otherwise delay the development or use of the property allowed by the
applicable land development regulation or regulations, except where a change in
state or federal law mandating town enforcement occurs after the development
application is submitted that has a fundamental and retroactive effect on the
development or use.
   (C)   Duration of vesting.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a development permit, the statutory vesting
granted by this section for a development project is effective upon filing of
the application in accordance with G.S. § 143-755, for so long as the permit
remains valid pursuant to law. Unless otherwise specified by this section or
other statute, local development permits expire one year after issuance unless
work authorized by the permit has substantially commenced. For the purposes of
this section, a permit is issued either in the ordinary course of business of
the town or by the applicable governmental agency as a court directive.
      (2)   Except where a longer vesting period is provided by statute or this
chapter, the statutory vesting granted by this section, once established,
expires for an uncompleted development project if development work is
intentionally and voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24
consecutive months, and the statutory vesting period granted by this section
for a nonconforming use of property expires if the use is intentionally and
voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months.
The 24-month discontinuance period is automatically tolled during the pendency
of any Planning and Adjustment Board proceeding or civil action in a state or
federal trial or appellate court regarding the validity of a development
permit, the use of the property, or the existence of the statutory vesting
period granted by this section. The 24-month discontinuance period is also
tolled during the pendency of any litigation involving the development project
or property that is the subject of the vesting.
   (D)   Multiple permits for development project. Subject to Section 1.10,
where multiple town development permits are required to complete a development
project, the development permit applicant may choose the version of each of the
town land development regulations applicable to the project upon submittal of
the application for the initial development permit. This provision is
applicable only for those subsequent development permit applications filed
within 18 months of the date following the approval of an initial permit. For
purposes of the vesting protections of this section, an erosion and
sedimentation control permit or a sign permit is not an initial development
permit.
   (E)   Multi-phased development. A multi-phased development is vested for the
entire development with the land development regulations then in place at the
time a site plan approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased
development. A right which has been vested as provided for in this section
remains vested for a period of seven years from the time a site plan approval
is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
   (F)   Continuing review. Following issuance of a development permit, the
town may make subsequent inspections and reviews to ensure compliance with the
applicable land development regulations in effect at the time of the original
application.
   (G)   Process to claim vested rights. A person claiming a statutory or
common law vested right may submit information to substantiate that claim to
the Zoning Administrator who shall make an initial determination as to the
existence of the vested right. The decision of the Zoning Administrator may be
appealed to the Planning and Adjustment Board. On appeal, the existence of a
vested right shall be reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking such a determination
or pursuing an appeal, a person claiming a vested right may bring an original
civil action as provided by G.S. § 160D-1403.1.
   (H)   Miscellaneous provisions. The vested rights granted by this section
run with the land except for the use of land for outdoor advertising governed
by G.S. §§ 136-131.1 and 136-131.2 in which case the rights granted by this
section run with the owner of a permit issued by the North Carolina Department
of Transportation. Nothing in this section precludes judicial determination,
based on common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested
right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred.
Except as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the existing common law.
   (I)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(1).
      DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(2).
      LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION. As defined in G.S. § 143-755(e)(3).
      MULTI-PHASED DEVELOPMENT. A development containing 25 acres or more that
is both of the following:
         (a)   Submitted for development permit approval to occur in more than
one phase.
         (b)   Subject to a master development plan with committed elements
showing the type and intensity of use of each phase.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
APPEALS, VARIANCES, INTERPRETATIONS
§ 153.375 APPEALS.
   (A)    Any aggrieved party affected by a decision or interpretation of the
Ordinance Administrator or other administrative official may appeal such
decision or interpretation to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Appeal procedure.
      (1)   Applicability. Appeals of decisions made by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her deputy or staff under this chapter shall be made to
the Board of Adjustment. Appeals shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment in
compliance with the quasi-judicial processes set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Standing. Any person who has standing or the town may appeal an
administrative decision to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by
filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk to the Board. The notice of appeal
shall state the grounds for the appeal.
      (3)   Time to appeal. The owner or other party shall have 30 days from
receipt of the written notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal. Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from
receipt from any source of actual or constructive notice of the determination
within which to file an appeal. The written notice of appeal shall specify the
grounds for the appeal, a statement of the decision or interpretation alleged
to be improper, the date of that decision or interpretation, and all supporting
materials related to the decision. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
notice given pursuant to this chapter by first-class mail shall be deemed
received on the third business day following deposit of the notice for mailing
with the United States Postal Service.
      (4)   Record of decision. The official who made the decision shall
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the
record upon which the decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also
provide a copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property
that is the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
      (5)   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement
order stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines
assessed unless the official who made the decision certifies to the Board after
notice of appeal has been filed that, because of the facts stated in an
affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property or, because
the violation is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with
enforcement of the development regulation. In that case, enforcement
proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order, which may be
granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant
may file with the official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal,
and the board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request
is filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a
development approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is
consistent with the development regulation shall not stay the further review of
an application for development approvals to use such property; in these
situations, the appellant or town may request and the board may grant a stay of
a final decision of development approval applications, including building
permits affected by the issue being appealed.
   (C)   Appeal of decision. Any appeal from the decision of the Board of
Adjustment shall be to the Superior Court for Onslow County by petition for a
writ of certiorari. Any such petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with
the Clerk of Court in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160D-1402.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.376 VARIANCES.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Board of
Adjustment by filing a copy of the application with the Zoning Administrator in
the Planning and Inspections Department. Applications shall be handled in the
same manner as applications for special use permits in conformity with the
provisions of §§
153.341,
153.342 and
153.347.
   (B)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of a requirement of this chapter, the Planning and Adjustment Board
shall vary the requirement of this chapter upon a showing of all of the
following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the requirement. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property; and
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability; and
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved; and
      (5)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance.
   (C)   In granting variances, the Board of Adjustment may impose such
reasonable conditions as will ensure that the use of the property to which the
variance applies will be as compatible as practicable with the surrounding
properties.
   (D)   A variance may be issued for an indefinite duration or for a specified
duration only.
   (E)   The nature of the variance and any conditions attached to it shall be
entered on the face of the zoning permit (or the zoning permit may simply note
the issuance of the variance and refer to the written record of the variance
for further information). All such conditions are enforceable in the same
manner as any other applicable requirement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.377 INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to interpret the official
zoning map and to pass upon disputed questions of lot lines or district
boundary lines and similar questions. If such questions arise in the context of
an appeal from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, they shall be handled as
provided in §
153.375.
   (B)   A written request for a map interpretation shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator (or Board of Adjustment in cases of appeal by filing a
copy of the application with the Zoning Administrator). The written request or
application in the case of appeal shall contain sufficient information to
enable the Zoning Administrator or Board to make the necessary interpretation.
   (C)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
alleys, streets, highways, streams or railroads shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines, town
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following such
lines, limits or boundaries.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as following such changed shorelines.
      (4)   Where distances are not specifically indicated on the official
zoning map, the boundary shall be determined by measurement, using the scale of
the official zoning map. Where a zoning district boundary divides a lot, the
zoning district that occupies the majority of the lot shall be considered the
zoning district for the entire lot. Said district boundary shall be interpreted
to follow lot lines.
      (5)   Where any street or alley is hereafter officially closed, the
regulation applicable to each parcel of abutting property shall apply to that
portion of such street or alley added thereto by virtue of such closing.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.378 REQUESTS TO BE HEARD EXPEDITIOUSLY.
   As provided in this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
all appeals, variance requests and requests for interpretations as
expeditiously as possible, consistent with the need to follow a regularly
established meeting schedule, follow agenda procedures, provide notice in
accordance with §§
153.320 through
153.332, and obtain the necessary information to make sound decisions.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.379 BURDEN OF PROOF IN APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   When an appeal is taken to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with
§
153.375, the Zoning Administrator shall have the initial burden of presenting
to the Board sufficient evidence and argument to justify the order or decision
appealed from. The burden of presenting evidence and argument to the contrary
then shifts to the appellant, who shall also have the burden of persuasion.
   (B)   The burden of presenting evidence sufficient to allow the Board of
Adjustment to reach the conclusions set forth in §
153.376(B), as well as the burden of persuasion on those issues, remains with
the applicant seeking the variance.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.380 BOARD ACTION ON APPEALS.
   (A)   With respect to appeals, a motion to reverse, affirm or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from shall include,
insofar as practicable, a statement of the specific reasons or findings of fact
that support the motion. If such a motion is not made or fails to receive the
votes necessary for adoption (see §
153.323), then the stated decision of the Zoning Administrator shall stand.
   (B)   If a motion to reverse or modify is not made or fails to receive the
four-fifths vote necessary for adoption (see §
153.323), then the decision of the Zoning Administrator shall stand.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW
§ 153.415 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
    Whenever the Zoning Administrator receives a verbal or written signed
complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, he or she shall investigate the
complaint, take whatever action is warranted, and inform the complainant
verbally or in writing what actions have been or will be taken.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.416 PERSONS LIABLE.
    The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation that is contrary to the
requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and
suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.417 PROCEDURES UPON DISCOVERY OF VIOLATIONS.
    When the Ordinance Administrator determines work or activity has been
undertaken in violation of this chapter or any approval issued hereunder, a
written notice of violation may be issued. The notice of violation shall be
delivered to the holder of the approval and to the landowner of the property
involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the approval, by personal
delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by
similar means to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the
work or activity. The notice of violation may be posted on the property. The
person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the town that the
notice was provided, and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the
absence of fraud. A notice of violation may be appealed to the Board of
Adjustment, and the Board of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial processes
as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.418 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General remedies. This chapter may be enforced by any remedy provided
by G.S. § 160A-175. If a building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building,
structure, or land is used or developed in violation of this chapter, the town,
in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or development; to restrain,
correct or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises.
   (B)   Stop work order. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to this chapter is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or
local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, the Ordinance
Administrator may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in
violation or presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped. The order shall
be in writing, directed to the person doing the work or activity, and shall
state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the reasons therefor, and
the conditions under which the work or activity may be resumed. A copy of the
order shall be delivered to the holder of the approval and to the owner of the
property involved (if that person is not the holder of the approval) by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail. The person or
persons delivering the stop work order shall certify to the town that the order
was delivered, and that certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence
of fraud. A stop work order may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment, and the
Board shall follow quasi-judicial processes as set forth in this chapter. No
further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop work order
pending a ruling on the appeal. Violation of a stop work order shall constitute
a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.419 PERMIT REVOCATION.
    Development approvals may be revoked by the town by notifying the holder in
writing stating the reason for the revocation. The town shall follow the same
development review and approval process required for issuance of the
development approval, including any required notice or hearing, in the review
and approval of any revocation of that approval. Development approvals shall be
revoked for any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of any
applicable local development regulation or any state law delegated to the town
for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any development approval
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable State or local law may also be
revoked. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may be
appealed pursuant to Section 4.12 herein. If an appeal is filed regarding a
development regulation adopted by the town pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D, the
provisions herein regarding stays apply.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.420 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of decisions made under this chapter shall be pursuant to
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.435 AMENDMENTS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Hearing with published notice. Before adopting, amending, or repealing
any provision of this chapter, the Board of Aldermen shall hold a legislative
hearing. A notice of the hearing shall be given once a week for two successive
calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The
notice shall be published the first time not less than ten days nor more than
25 days before the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such period,
the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall
be included.
   (B)   No amendment to this chapter or the Official Zoning Map of Richlands
that down-zones property shall be initiated nor is it enforceable without the
written consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the
down-zoning amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated by the
town. For purposes of this prohibition, DOWN-ZONING means a zoning ordinance
that affects an area of land in one of the following ways: (a) by decreasing
the development density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under its
previous usage, or (b) by reducing the permitted uses of the land that are
specified in a zoning ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses
than were allowed under its previous usage.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.436 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    Whenever a request to amend this chapter is initiated by the Board of
Aldermen, the planning staff shall review the request and forward it to the
Planning and Zoning Board for its review and recommendations. Such
recommendations, along with a draft of an appropriate ordinance prepared by the
Town Attorney in consultation with the planning staff, shall then be forwarded
to the Board of Aldermen and considered by that Board after a legislative
hearing held pursuant to §
153.435.
   (B)   Whenever a request to amend this chapter is initiated by a town
department head, board or commission, other than the Board of Aldermen, the
planning staff shall review the request and forward it to the Board of Aldermen
for their review and consideration in accordance with the procedures outlined
in division (A) above.
   (C)   (1)   Any other person may also petition the Board of Aldermen to
amend this chapter. The petition shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator
and shall include, among the information deemed relevant by the Planning and
Inspections Department:
         (a)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the property owner, if
different from applicant, along with written confirmation of owner consent to
the rezoning request;
         (c)   A metes and bounds description of the land affected by the
amendment if a change in zoning district classification is proposed;
         (d)   A description of the proposed map change or a summary of the
specific objective of any proposed change in the text of this chapter; and
         (e)   A concise statement of the reasons why the petitioner believes
the proposed amendment would be in the public interest.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay a fee as established in the annual schedule
of fees to the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee at the time the
application is submitted to town staff.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a petition as provided in division (C) above, the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall ensure that the application
is complete and shall proceed with notification of affected property owners if
required by this chapter, scheduling of the zoning amendment request with the
Planning and Zoning Board. In cases involving Planning and Zoning Board review,
the completed application must be received by the Zoning Administrator no less
than 14 days prior to the scheduled meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.437 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
   (A)    Subsequent to initial adoption of a zoning ordinance, all proposed
amendments to the zoning ordinance or zoning map shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Board for review and comment. If no written report is
received from the Planning and Zoning Board within 30 days of referral of the
amendment to that Board, the Board of Aldermen may proceed in its consideration
of the amendment without the Planning Board report. The Board of Aldermen is
not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning and Zoning Board.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall advise and comment on whether the
proposed amendment is consistent with any comprehensive plan that has been
adopted and any other officially adopted plan that is applicable. The Planning
Board shall provide a written recommendation to the Board of Aldermen that
addresses plan consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the
Planning and Zoning Board, but a comment by the Planning and Zoning Board that
a proposed amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not
preclude consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the governing
board.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.438 NOTICE FOR MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Mailed Notice. The owners of affected parcels of land and the owners
of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed a notice of
the hearing on a proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail at the last
addresses listed for such owners on the county tax abstracts. For the purpose
of this section, properties are "abutting" even if separated by a street,
railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice must be deposited in
the mail at least ten but not more than 25 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (B)   Optional notice for large-scale zoning map amendments. The first-class
mail notice required under division (A) above shall not be required if the
zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of more than 50
properties, owned by at least 50 different property owners, and the town elects
to use the expanded published notice provided for in this section. In this
instance, the town may elect to make the mailed notice provided for in division
(A) above or, as an alternative, elect to publish notice of the hearing as
required by G.S. § 160D-601, provided that each advertisement shall not be less
than one-half of a newspaper page in size. The advertisement shall only be
effective for property owners who reside in the area of general circulation of
the newspaper that publishes the notice. Property owners who reside outside of
the newspaper circulation area, according to the address listed on the most
recent property tax listing for the affected property, shall be notified
according to the provisions of division (A).
   (C)   Posted notice.
      (1)   When a zoning map amendment is proposed, the town shall prominently
post a notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the amendment or on an
adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. The notice shall be posted
within the same time period specified for mailed notices of the hearing. When
multiple parcels are included within a proposed zoning map amendment, a posting
on each individual parcel is not required but the town shall post sufficient
notices to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
      (2)   If any resident or property owner in the town submits a written
statement regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a zoning
regulation, including a text or map amendment, to the Clerk to the Board of
Aldermen at least two business days prior to the proposed vote on such change,
the Clerk to the Board shall deliver such written statement to the Board of
Aldermen. If the proposed change is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding
under G.S. § 160D-705 or any other statute, the Clerk shall provide only the
names and addresses of the individuals providing written comment, and the
provision of such names and addresses to all members of the Board shall not
disqualify any member of the Board from voting.
   (D)   Planning and Zoning Board review and comment.
      (1)   Zoning amendments. All proposed amendments to this chapter or
zoning map shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board for review and
comment. If no written report is received from the Planning and Zoning Board
within 30 days of referral of the amendment to that Board, the Board of
Aldermen may act on the amendment without the Planning and Zoning Board report.
The Board of Aldermen are not bound by the recommendations, if any, of the
Planning and Zoning Board.
      (2)   Plan consistency. When conducting a review of proposed zoning text
or map amendments pursuant to this section, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
advise and comment on whether the proposed action is consistent with any
comprehensive plan that has been adopted and any other officially adopted plan
that is applicable. The Planning and Zoning Board shall provide a written
recommendation to the Board of Aldermen that addresses plan consistency and
other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning and Zoning Board, but a
comment by the Planning and Zoning Board that a proposed amendment is
inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not preclude consideration or
approval of the proposed amendment by the governing board. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the
Planning and Zoning Board statement describing plan consistency may address the
overall rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant
adopted plans were considered in the recommendation made.
      (3)   Separate board required. Notwithstanding the authority to assign
duties of the Planning and Zoning Board to the Board of Aldermen as provided by
G.S. Ch. 160D, the review and comment required by this section shall not be
assigned to the Board of Aldermen and must be performed by a separate board.
   (E)   Board of Aldermen statement.
      (1)   Plan consistency. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map
amendment, the Board of Aldermen shall approve a brief statement describing
whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted comprehensive
plan. The requirement for a plan consistency statement may also be met by a
clear indication in the minutes of the Board of Aldermen that at the time of
action on the amendment the Board of Aldermen was aware of and considered the
Planning Board's recommendations and any relevant portions of an adopted
comprehensive plan. If a zoning map amendment is adopted and the action was
deemed inconsistent with the adopted plan, the zoning amendment shall have the
effect of also amending any future land-use map in the approved plan, and no
additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. A
plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently. The plan
consistency statement is not subject to judicial review. If a zoning map
amendment qualifies as a "large-scale rezoning" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the
Board of Aldermen statement describing plan consistency may address the overall
rezoning and describe how the analysis and policies in the relevant adopted
plans were considered in the action taken.
      (2)   Additional reasonableness statement for rezonings. When adopting or
rejecting any petition for a zoning map amendment, a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of the proposed rezoning shall be approved by the Board of
Aldermen. This statement of reasonableness may consider, among other factors:
(i) the size, physical conditions, and other attributes of the area proposed to
be rezoned; (ii) the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the neighbors,
and the surrounding community; (iii) the relationship between the current
actual and permissible development on the tract and adjoining areas and the
development that would be permissible under the proposed amendment; (iv) why
the action taken is in the public interest; and (v) any changed conditions
warranting the amendment. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a "large-scale
rezoning" under G.S. § 160D-602(b), the Board of Aldermen statement on
reasonableness may address the overall rezoning.
      (3)   Single statement permissible. The statement of reasonableness and
the plan consistency statement required by this section may be approved as a
single statement.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 153.439 BOARD OF ALDERMEN ACTION ON AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the legislative hearing on a proposed amendment,
the Board of Aldermen may proceed to vote on the proposed ordinance, refer it
to a committee for further study or take any other action consistent with its
usual rules of procedure.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen is not required to take final action on a
proposed amendment within any specific period of time, but it should proceed as
expeditiously as practicable on petitions for amendments since inordinate
delays can result in the petitioner incurring unnecessary costs.
   (C)   Voting on amendments to this chapter shall proceed in the same manner
as other ordinances, subject to G.S. § 160A-75.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2024-01, passed
2-20-2024)
§ 153.440 ULTIMATE ISSUE BEFORE BOARD OF ALDERMEN ON AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)    In deciding whether to adopt a proposed amendment to this
chapter, the central issue before the Board of Aldermen is whether the proposed
amendment advances the public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   All other issues are irrelevant and all information related to
other issues at the public hearing may be declared irrelevant by the Mayor and
excluded.
   (B)   In particular, when considering proposed minor map amendments:
      (1)   The Board of Aldermen shall not consider any representations made
by the petitioner that, if the change is granted, the rezoned property will be
used for only one of the possible range of uses permitted in the requested
classification. Rather, the Board of Aldermen shall consider whether the entire
range of permitted uses in the requested classification is more appropriate
than the range of uses in the existing classification; and
      (2)   The Board of Aldermen shall not regard as controlling any
advantages or disadvantages to the individual requesting the change, but shall
consider the impact of the proposed change on the public at large.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2013; Ord. 2021-03, passed 6-8-2021)
CHAPTER 154: VACANT PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
154.01   Intent and scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Registration required
   
154.04   Maintenance requirements
   
154.05   Security requirements
   
154.06   Inspections
   
154.07   Enforcement; violations; penalties
   
154.08   Appeals
   
154.09   Preemption
§ 154.01 INTENT AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Richlands Town Board of Aldermen,
through the adoption of this chapter, to establish a vacant commercial property
maintenance standards ordinance as a mechanism to preserve the historic
integrity of Richlands' Historic District and to protect the town's commercial
districts from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and
security of abandoned and vacant properties. Additionally the town desires to
deter crime and theft of materials, to minimize loss of property value to
vacant properties and surrounding occupied properties, to reduce the risk of
damage from fire, flooding or other hazards, and to promote the comfort,
happiness and emotional stability of area residents. The town finds that the
presence of properties exhibiting evidence of vacancy pose special risks to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community and therefore require heightened
regulatory attention. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
properties in the C-l and C-2 Business districts of the town.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY.  Any aesthetic condition that on its own or combined
with other conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to,
overgrown or dead vegetation, extensively chipped or peeling exterior paint,
exterior walls in poor condition, porches and steps in poor condition, roof in
poor condition, broken windows and other signs of general disrepair,
accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail, past due utility notices
or disconnected utilities, accumulation of trash, junk or debris, the absence
of window coverings such as curtains, blinds, or shutters, the absence of
furnishings or personal items consistent with commercial habitation, statements
by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, government employees that the
property is vacant.
   GOVERNMENT AGENCY. Any public body having authority over the property and
residents of the town, including but not limited to the Town of Richlands,
Onslow County, Richlands Police Department, Richlands Volunteer Fire
Department, Onslow County Sheriffs Office.
   GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL. Any public official representing a public body which
has authority over the property and residents of the town, including but not
limited to the Town Administrator, County Building Inspector, Town Police
Chief, County Fire Marshall, Town Mayor.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. The state-designated Richlands Historic District, as
listed in the National Register of Historic Places and/or defined in the
ordinances establishing the Richlands Historic District Commission.
   LOCAL.  Located within 40 road or driving miles distance of the subject
property.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.  Any real property used or intended to be used for
anything other than residential property as defined herein.
   OUT OF AREA. Located in excess of 40 road or driving miles distance away
from the subject property.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation or fiduciary having
a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property. No trustee in
any Deed of Trust shall be considered an owner.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person or entity listed on recorded deed, probated will
or heir by intestacy.
   PROPERTY.  Any unimproved or improved real property or portion thereof,
situated in the town and includes the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A building, or portion thereof, designed exclusively
for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, multiple
dwellings, mobile homes, house trailers, boarding and lodging houses, apartment
houses, and apartment hotels.
   TOWN. The Town of Richlands corporate limits and its extra territorial
jurisdiction.
   UTILITIES. Water, sewer, telephone, natural and propane gas, and electricity
services.
   VACANT. A property that has not been legally occupied for 180 days. Legally
occupied means occupancy by the owner or any business or individual whose
presence therein is with the consent of the owner with utilities furnished to
the property.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any vacant commercial property located within the town's C-l and C-
2 Districts must be registered by the owner with the town, either:
      (1)   Of the owner of a vacant property's own accord before receiving a
notice of registration requirement; or
      (2)   Within 30 days of receiving a notice of registration requirement
from the town.
   (B)   The town will send a notice of registration requirement to the owner
of record of properties that exhibit evidence of vacancy. Owner shall register
property within the time period set forth in §
154.04(A) of this chapter unless owner can provide clear and convincing
evidence to the Town Administrator, within such time period, that the property
is not vacant.
   (C)   The registration shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner (corporation or individual);
      (2)   The direct street/office mailing address of the owner and P.O. Box
if applicable; and
      (3)   A direct contact name and phone number.
   (D)   Any changes in the information in (C)(1) through (3) of this section
shall be reported to the town within 30 days of such changes.
   (E)   Registration must be renewed annually.
   (F)   Vacant properties shall remain subject to the annual registration,
maintenance, and security requirements of this chapter as long as they remain
vacant.
   (G)   Once the property is no longer vacant or is sold, the owner must
provide written proof of occupancy or sale to the town.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.04 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Properties subject to this chapter shall be kept in compliance with the
following maintenance requirements:
   (A)   The exteriors of building(s)/structure(s) on the property shall be
painted and maintained in a way that does not does not exhibit any evidence of
vacancy.
   (B)   The yard(s) of the property shall be maintained in a way that does not
provide evidence of vacancy.
   (C)   The deck(s) and porch(s) located on the property shall be maintained
in a way that does not provide evidence of vacancy.
   (D)   The window(s) and door(s) of building(s)/structure(s) of the property
shall be intact and operable and shall be maintained in a way that does not
provide evidence of vacancy.
   (E)   Instances of rotting of building(s)/structure(s) located on the
property or portion thereof shall be corrected in order to eliminate evidence
of vacancy so that no visible rotting, with the exterior painted and kept in
good aesthetic condition.
   (F)   The property shall be maintained so as to exhibit no evidence of
vacancy.
   (G)   The storefronts and facades of buildings shall be maintained in a way
that does not provide evidence of vacancy.
   (H)   The interiors, when visible to passersby through storefront windows,
shall be maintained in a way that does not exhibit evidence of vacancy.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.05 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Vacant properties subject to this chapter shall comply with the following
security requirements.
   (A)   The property shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not to be
accessible to unauthorized persons. This includes, without limitation, the
closure and locking of windows, doors (including but not limited to walk-
through, sliding, and garage), gates, pet doors, and any other such opening of
such size that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property or
structure(s).
   (B)   Broken windows shall be replaced and/or re-glazed; windows at street
level shall not be boarded up.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.06 INSPECTIONS.
   The town shall have the authority and the duty to inspect properties subject
to this chapter for compliance and to issue citations for any violations. The
town shall have the discretion to determine when and how such inspections are
to be made, provided that their policies are reasonably calculated to ensure
that this chapter is enforced.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.07 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or fails to comply
with any order made thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such order as affirmed or modified by appeal, or by a
court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally,
for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation, or authorize its continuance.
   (D)   All such persons shall be required to submit an acceptable plan of
action to the Town Administrator within ten business days of notification. This
plan of action must include, but is not limited to, a description of the work
to be done, by whom and a specific schedule. Plans shall be reviewed by the
Board of Aldermen and work is to commence within 15 days of Board approval.
When not otherwise specified, failure to meet any stated condition within ten
days of required action shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Penalties for failure to comply:
      (1)   Initial registration. Failure to initially register with the town
within the time frame required is punishable by a civil penalty of $50.
      (2)   Annual registration. Failure to register annually is punishable by
a civil penalty of $50.
      (3)   Maintenance and security requirements. Failure to meet the
maintenance and security requirements is punishable by a civil penalty of $500.
      (4)   Failure to submit plan. Failure to submit plan of corrective action
is a violation punishable by a civil penalty of $50.
      (5)   Failure to implement plan. Failure to implement plan within 15 days
of approval or complete the plan within 60 days of approval, unless given an
extension in writing by the Town Administrator, is a violation punishable by a
civil penalty of $500.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.08 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this chapter may present
an appeal in writing to the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
§ 154.09 PREEMPTION.
   Except as specifically preempted by town ordinances, this chapter shall
apply to all vacant properties in the C-l and C-2 Zoning Districts in the town.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 10-14-14)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET AND ROAD CLOSINGS
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: STREET AND ROAD CLOSINGS
 
Doc. No. Date Passed Description
Order    3-11-2008   Ordering the closure of Woodson School Road
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
 
Doc. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Interlocal agreement between the town and the County
Agreement 6-9-2009    Board of Commissioners for building inspection,
                      permitting, plan review and minimum housing services
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1987 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
References to Miscellaneous Material
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                  Code Section
1-593                         10.05
Ch. 7A                        151.33
7A et seq.                    Ch. 32
12-3                          10.05
                              10.99;
                              Ch. 72, Sch. I;
                              90.999,
14-4                          92.99,
                              93.99,
                              150.99,
                              152.999
14-202.10                     153.013,
                              153.118
14-202.10 et seq.             153.118
14-202.10(1)                  153.013
14-202.10(10)                 153.013
14-202.10(11)                 153.013
14-234                        Ch. 34
14-269                        92.17
14-269.2                      92.17
14-277.2                      92.09
14-284.1                      92.17
14-288.8                      92.17
15A-402                       Ch. 32
18B-1001                      114.01
Ch. 20                        Ch. 71
20-141(f)                     Ch. 71
20-219.11                     90.064
Ch. 29                     152.001
44A-1 through 44A-6           90.066
47-30                         152.048,
                              152.051
47-30.2                       152.025
47C                           153.116
62-3(17)                      112.02
62-3(23)                      153.013
95-173 through 95-218         153.013
110-86(2)                     153.013
110-86(3)                     153.013
Ch. 113A, Art. 4              152.070
121-34 through 121-42         152.071
Ch. 130A, Art. 6, Pt. 6       94.55
Ch. 130A, Art. 9              151.05
130A-192                      94.57
130A-290(a)(6)                151.05
130A-290(a)(35)               151.05
130A-290(a)(36)               151.05
130A-498                      95.01
Ch. 136, Art. 2A, § 136-44.14152.069
136-66.10                     153.141
136-66.11                     153.141
136-102.6                     152.001,
                              152.069
136.131.1                     153.355
136.131.2                     153.355
136-143                       90.068
Ch. 143                       152.073
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Pt. 6       151.01
143-129 et seq.               33.16
143-143.15                    151.46
143-145(7)                    153.013,
                              153.113
143-215.58                    151.33,
                              151.99
143-318.1 through 143-318.18  30.23
143-318.9 through 143-318.18  30.63
143-755                       153.355
143-755(e)(1)                 153.355
143-755(e)(2)                 153.355
143-755(e)(3)                 153.355
Ch. 153A                      94.99
Ch. 153A, Art. 6              151.01
Ch. 159                       34.32
159-1 et seq.                 34.32
159-25                        33.01
159-28                        33.15
Ch. 160A                      94.99
Ch. 160A, Art. 8              90.001,
                              151.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 12             33.02
160A-11                       10.18
160A-61                       152.073,
                              153.331
160A-64                       30.08
160A-69                       30.03
160A-70                       30.04
160A-71                       30.21
160A-74                       30.20
160A-75                       30.20
160A-78                       30.43
160A-79                       30.42 ,
                              153.065
160A-80                       30.05
160A-164                      30.05
160A-171                      34.16
160A-173                      34.30
160A-174                      90.126
160A-174(a)                   95.01
                              10.99,
                              70.99,
160A-175                      94.99 ,
                              152.999,
                              153.418
160A-175(b)                   Ch. 72,
                              150.99
160A-178                      Ch. 113
160A-193                      50.06,
                              90.010
160A-216 through 160A-238     91.073
160A-232                      91.073
160A-233                      91.073
160A-266(c)                   33.02
160A-281 et seq.              Ch. 32
160A-286                      Ch. 32
160A-296                      Ch. 71
160A-300.6                    70.01
160A-301(d)                   Ch. 72
160A-304                      Ch. 112
160A-304(a)                   112.04
160A-372                      152.045
160A-373                      152.046
                              152.001,
                              152.004,
                              152.073,
                              153.013,
                              153.030,
                              153.113,
Ch. 160D                      153.180,
                              153.206,
                              153.308,
                              153.325,
                              153.419,
                              153.420,
                              153.438
Ch. 160D, Art. 7              151.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 8              152.005
Ch. 160D, Art. 9              151.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10             153.355
Ch. 160D, Art. 11             151.01
160D-103 et seq.              153.002
160D-202                      153.003,
                              153.013
160D-301                      152.001,
                              152.073
160D-501                      153.006
160D-501(b)                   153.006
160D-601                      153.438
160D-602(b)                   153.438
160D-705                      153.438
160D-802                      153.013
160D-802(c)                   152.047
160D-806                      152.027
160D-902(f)                   153.118
160D-903                      153.050
160D-910                      153.113
                              152.074,
160D-1402                     153.332,
                              153.375
160D-1403.1                   153.355
164-7                         10.14
166A-19.31                    130.06
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1987 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1-1-06            10.99
1-1-09            10.19
2-1-01            30.01
2-1-02            30.02
2-1-03            30.03
2-1-04            30.04
2-1-05            30.05
2-1-06            30.06
2-1-07            30.07
2-1-08            30.08
2-1-21            30.20
2-1-22            30.21
2-1-23            30.22
2-1-26            30.23
2-1-41            30.40
2-1-42            30.41
2-1-43            30.42
2-1-44            30.43
2-1-45            30.44
2-1-46            30.45
2-1-47            30.46
2-1-60            30.60
2-1-61            30.61
2-1-62            30.62
2-1-63            30.63
2-2-01            34.30
2-2-02            34.31
2-2-11            34.01
2-2-12            34.02
2-2-13            34.03
2-2-14            34.04
2-3-01            34.15
2-3-03            34.16
2-4-01            33.15
2-4-02            33.16
2-4-03            33.17
2-4-41            33.01
2-4-43            33.02
3-1-01            32.01
3-1-02            32.02
3-1-03            32.03
3-1-04            32.04
3-1-11            32.20
3-1-12            32.21
3-1-13            32.22
3-1-16            32.23
                  130.01—
3-1-16(e)         130.06,
                  130.99
3-3-01            93.01
3-3-02            93.02
3-3-03            93.02
3-3-04            93.02
3-3-05            93.02
3-3-06            93.99
4-1-01            91.070
4-1-02            91.071
4-1-03            91.072
4-1-04            91.073
4-1-05            91.073
4-1-06            91.074
4-1-07            91.075
4-1-11            91.090
4-1-12            91.091
4-1-13            91.092
4-1-14            91.093
4-1-15            91.094
4-1-16            91.095
4-1-17            91.096
4-1-18            91.097
4-1-19            91.098
4-1-20            91.099
4-1-31            91.001
4-1-32            91.002
4-1-33            91.003
4-2-01            50.01
4-2-02            50.02
4-2-03            50.03
4-2-04            50.04
4-2-05            50.05
4-2-06            50.06
4-2-07            50.99
4-2-10            50.20
4-2-11            50.21
4-2-12            50.22
4-2-13            50.23
4-2-14            50.24
4-2-15            50.25
4-2-16            50.26
4-2-20            50.40
4-2-21            50.41
4-2-22            50.42
4-2-23            50.43
4-2-24            50.44
4-2-25            50.45
4-2-26            50.99
4-3-01            91.015
4-3-05            91.016
6-1-20            113.01
6-1-21            113.02
6-1-22            113.03
6-2-01            91.030
6-2-02            91.031
6-2-03            91.032
6-2-04            91.033
6-2-05            91.034
6-2-06            91.035
6-2-07            91.036
6-2-08            91.037
6-2-09            91.038
6-2-10            91.039
6-2-11            91.040
6-2-12            91.041
6-2-13            91.042
6-2-14            91.999
6-2-21            91.055
6-2-22            91.055
6-2-23            91.056
6-2-24            91.056
6-2-50            Ch. 71, Schd. III
6-2-51            Ch. 71, Schd. III
6-2-52            Ch. 71, Schd. III
6-2-60            Ch. 71, Schd. I
6-2-61            Ch. 71, Schd. I
6-2-62            Ch. 71, Schd. I
6-2-70            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-71            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-72            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-73            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-74            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-75            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-76            Ch. 71, Schd. II
6-2-80            70.01
6-2-81            70.02
6-2-82            70.03
6-2-83            70.04
6-2-84            70.05
6-2-85            70.06
6-2-86            70.07
6-2-87            70.08
6-2-88            70.99
6-4-01            111.01
6-4-02            111.02
6-4-03            111.03
6-4-04            111.04
6-4-05            111.99
7-1-01            150.01
7-1-02            150.01
7-1-10            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-11            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-12            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-13            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-14            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-15            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-16            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-17            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-18            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-19            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-20            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-21            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-22            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-23            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-30            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-32            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-33            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-34            Ch. 72, Schd. I
7-1-41            150.02
7-1-42            150.02
7-1-43            150.02
7-1-44            150.02
7-1-45            150.02
7-1-46            Ch. 71, Schd. I
7-1-46            150.02
7-1-47            Ch. 71, Schd. I
7-1-47            150.02
7-1-48            Ch. 71, Schd. I
7-1-48            150.02
7-1-49            150.02
7-1-50            150.99
8-1-01            90.001
8-1-02            90.002
8-1-03            90.003
8-1-04            90.004
8-1-10            90.005
8-1-11            90.006
8-1-12            90.007
8-1-13            90.008
8-1-14            90.008
8-1-15            90.008
8-1-16            90.009
8-1-17            90.010
8-1-18            90.999
8-1-19            90.011
8-2-01            94.01
8-2-02            94.02
8-2-03            94.03
8-2-04            94.04
8-2-05            94.05
8-2-06            94.06
8-2-07            94.07
8-2-08            94.08
8-2-09            94.09
8-2-10            94.10
8-2-11            94.11
8-2-12            94.12
8-2-13            94.13
8-2-14            94.14
8-2-15            94.15
8-2-16            94.16
8-2-17            94.17
8-2-18            94.18
8-2-19            94.19
8-2-20            94.20
8-2-21            94.21
8-2-22            94.22
8-2-23            94.23
8-2-24            94.40
8-2-25            94.41
8-2-27            94.42
8-2-28            94.24
8-2-29            94.99
8-2-30            94.55
8-2-31            94.56
8-2-32            94.57
8-3-15            90.072,
                  90.999
8-4-01            90.090
8-4-02            90.091
8-5-01            90.115
8-5-02            90.116
8-5-03            90.117
8-5-04            90.118
8-5-05            90.119
8-5-06            90.120
8-5-07            90.121
8-5-08            90.122
8-5-09            90.123
8-5-10            90.124
8-5-11            90.125
8-5-12            90.126
8-5-13            90.999
8-6-01            90.025
8-6-02            90.026
8-6-03            90.027
8-6-04            90.028
8-6-05            90.029
8-6-06            90.030
8-6-07            90.031
8-6-08            90.032
8-6-09            90.033
8-6-10            90.034
8-6-11            90.999
8-7-04            90.140
8-7-06            90.141
8-7-07            90.999
8-8-01            90.045
8-8-02            90.046
8-8-03            90.047
8-8-04            90.048
8-8-05            90.049
8-8-06            90.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2009-07  6-9-2009    150.15
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        2-19-1991   Ch. 72, Schd. I
-        10-14-1997  90.090
-        8-11-1998   33.02
-        5-11-1999   Ch. 72, Schd. I
                     152.001—
                     152.010,
                     152.025—
                     152.032,
-        11-21-2000  152.045—
                     152.054,
                     152.065—
                     152.072,
                     152.999
                     94.01—
                     94.24,
                     94.40—
-        2-8-2005    94.42,
                     94.55—
                     94.57,
                     94.99
                     151.01—
                     151.12,
                     151.30—
-        10-11-2005  151.33,
                     151.45—
                     151.49,
                     151.99
-        3-14-2006   Ch. 71, Schd. I
-        6-12-2007   91.037—
                     91.042
2008-02  - -2008     152.069
-        10-5-2010   Ch. 71, Schd. II
                     90.092—
2010-006 10-5-2010   90.102,
                     90.999
                     70.01—
-        1-11-2011   70.08,
                     70.99
2011-04  8-9-2011    Ch. 71, Schd. I
                     92.01—
2012-01  1-1-2012    92.18,
                     92.99
                     153.001—
                     153.015,
                     153.030—
                     153.038,
                     153.050—
                     153.054,
                     153.065,
                     153.066,
                     153.080—
                     153.092,
                     153.105—
                     153.121,
                     153.135—
                     153.140,
                     153.142—
                     153.147,  
                     153.160—
                     153.166,
                     153.180—
                     153.192,
-        4-9-2013    153.205—
                     153.217,
                     153.230—
                     153.236,
                     153.250—
                     153.256,
                     153.270—
                     153.272,
                     153.285—
                     153.290,
                     153.305—
                     153.309,
                     153.320—
                     153.325,
                     153.340—
                     153.355,
                     153.375—
                     153.380,
                     153.415—
                     153.420,
                     153.435—
                     153.440
2013-02  10-8-2013   153.080
2014-01  3-11-2014   Adopting Ordinance
2014-04  10-14-2014  Ch. 72, Schd. I
2014-05  10-14-2014  154.01—
                     154.09
                     95.01—
2015-01  5-19-2015   95.06,
                     95.99
2015-02  8-11-2015   94.20
                     153.120,
2016-03  5-10-2016   153.143,
                     153.147
2016-04  5-10-2016   Ch. 71, Schd. I
2017-01  4-11-2017   153.107
2017-02  9-12-2017   114.01
2018-01  1-9-2018    153.191
2018-02  2-13-2018   153.080,
                     153.119
2019-01  6-11-2019   90.050,
                     90.999
                     151.01—
                     151.12,
                     151.30—
2020-03  5-12-2020   151.34,
                     151.45—
                     151.49,
                     151.60—
                     151.63
2020-05  8-11-2020   153.080
2021-01  5-11-2021   153.192
                     152.001—
                     152.010,
                     152.025—
                     152.033,
                     152.045—
                     152.054,
                     152.065—
                     152.076,
                     152.999,
                     153.001—
                     153.016,
                     153.030—
                     153.038,
                     153.050—
                     153.054,
                     153.065,
                     153.066,
                     153.080—
                     153.092,
                     153.105—
                     153.121,
                     153.135—
                     153.147,
                     153.160—
                     153.166,
                     153.180—
2021-03  6-8-2021    153.192,
                     153.205—
                     153.217,
                     153.230—
                     153.236,
                     153.250—
                     153.256,
                     153.250—
                     153.257,
                     153.270—
                     153.272,
                     153.285—
                     153.290,
                     153.305—
                     153.309,
                     153.320—
                     153.325,
                     153.330—
                     153.332,
                     153.340—
                     153.355,
                     153.375—
                     153.380,
                     153.415—
                     153.420,
                     153.435—
                     153.440
2022-02  4-12-2022   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2022-03  5-10-2022   Ch. 71, Schd. I
2022-05  6-14-2022   Ch. 72, Schd. I
2022-07  11-8-2022   153.080
                     153.082,
                     153.160,
                     153.186,
2024-01  2-20-2024   153.207,
                     153.323,
                     153.347,
                     153.439
2024-03  2-20-2024   152.071
                     153.122,
2024-06  7-9-2024    153.013,
                     153.080
2024-07  8-13-2024   90.060—
                     90.068
                     50.21,
                     50.45,
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II,
2024-09  11-12-2024  III,
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                     90.008,
                     90.046,
                     94.24 
                    
 
REFERENCES TO MISCELLANEOUS MATERIAL
 
Misc.     Date      Code Section
Order     3-11-2008 TSO Table I
Agreement 6-9-2009  TSO Table II
 
