ROANOKE RAPIDS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation adopted through 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2023 Acts, Pamphlet No.
6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
CITY COUNCIL
 
Emery Doughtie    Mayor
Wayne Smith       Mayor Pro Tem/District 2
Rex Stainback     District 1
Curtis Strickland District 1
Sandra Bryant     District 2
W. Keith Bell     District 3
 
CHARTER
Section
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
   
1.1.   Incorporation.
   
1.2.   Powers.
   
1.3.   Corporate Boundaries.
   
1.4.   Form of Government.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
   
2.1.   City Governing Body; Composition.
   
2.2.   City Council; Composition; Terms of Office.
   
2.3.   Mayor; Term of Office; Duties.
   
2.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore.
   
2.5.   Meetings; Quorum; Voting Requirements.
   
2.6.   Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
   
3.1.   Regular Municipal Elections.
   
3.2.   Electoral District Boundaries.
   
3.3.   Election of Mayor.
   
3.4.   Election of Councilmembers.
   
3.5.   Special Elections and Referenda.
ARTICLE IV. CITY MANAGER
   
4.1.   City Manager; Appointment; Powers and Duties.
   
4.2.   Manager’s Personnel Authority; Role of Elected Officials.
   
4.3.   Residency.
   
4.4.   Eligibility of Councilmembers.
   
4.5.   Absence or Disability.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   
5.1.   City Attorney.
   
5.2.   City Clerk.
   
5.3.   Tax Collector.
   
5.4.   Director of Finance.
   
5.5.   Consolidation of Functions.
   
5.6.   Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
ARTICLE VI. STREET IMPROVEMENTS
   
6.1.   Assessments for Street Improvements; Petition Unnecessary.
   
6.2.   Street Improvement Defined.
   
6.3.   Procedure; Effect of Assessment.
ARTICLE VII. SIDEWALKS
   
7.1.   Property Owner’s Responsibility.
   
7.2.   City Cleaning or Repair; Costs Become a Lien.
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE AND TAXATION
   
8.1.   Motor Vehicle Tag Tax.
ARTICLE IX. PROPERTY DISPOSITION
   
9.1.   Disposal of Surplus Personal Property.
ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
   
10.1.   Settlement of Claims by City Manager.
ARTICLE XI. FIREMEN’S SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT FUND
   
11.1.   Supplemental Retirement Fund.
Legislative history: Adopted by the Roanoke Rapids City Council on January 10,
1995 and ratified by the North Carolina General Assembly on April 13, 1995.
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ROANOKE RAPIDS
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1. Incorporation.
   The City of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina in Halifax County and the
inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate, under the name of the “City of Roanoke Rapids,” hereinafter at times
referred to as the “City.”
Section 1.2. Powers.
   The City shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges, and immunities conferred upon the City of Roanoke Rapids
specifically by this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The
term “general law” is employed herein as defined in G.S. § 160A-1.
Section 1.3. Corporate Boundaries.
   The corporate boundaries shall be those existing at the time of ratification
of this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the City and as they may
be altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the
City, showing the current municipal boundaries and the boundaries of the
electoral districts therein, shall be maintained permanently in the office of
the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection. Upon alteration of
the corporate limits or electoral districts pursuant to law, the appropriate
changes to the official map shall be made, and copies shall be filed in the
office of the Secretary of State, the Halifax County Register of Deeds, and the
appropriate board of elections.
Section 1.4. Form of Government.
   The City shall operate under the council-manager form of government, in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
Section 2.1. City Governing Body; Composition.
   The Mayor and the City Council, hereinafter referred to as the “Council,”
shall be the governing body of the City.
Section 2.2. City Council; Composition; Terms of Office.
   The Council shall be composed of five members, two to be elected by and from
the qualified voters of District 1, two to be elected by and from the qualified
voters of District 2, and one to be elected by and from the qualified voters of
District 3, for staggered terms of four years or until their successors are
elected and qualified.
Section 2.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the City for a
term of four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the City government and preside at meetings
of the Council, shall have the right to vote only when there is an equal
division on any question or matter before the Council, and shall exercise the
powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by the Council.
Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the Council.
Section 2.5. Meetings; Quorum; Voting Requirements.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law. Notwithstanding the contrary provisions of G.S. §
160A-74, a majority of the members elected to the Council shall constitute a
quorum for the conduct of business. In the absence of a quorum, a lesser number
may adjourn from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in
such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance. Official actions of the Council
and all votes shall be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of
general law, particularly G.S. § 160A-75.
Section 2.6. Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Councilmembers shall be
in accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office of
the City shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, despite the
contrary provisions of G.S. § 160A-63.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in G.S. §§ 163A-700 et seq.
Section 3.2. Electoral District Boundaries.
   The City shall be divided into three districts. The district boundaries are
those existing at the time of ratification of this Charter, as set forth on the
official map of the City and as they may be altered from time to time in
accordance with general law.
Section 3.3. Election of Mayor.
   A Mayor shall be elected in the regular municipal election in 1997 and every
four years thereafter.
Section 3.4. Election of Councilmembers.
   In the regular municipal election in 1995, and every four years thereafter,
one councilmember shall be elected by and from each of the three Districts. In
the regular municipal election in 1997, and every four years thereafter, one
Councilmember shall be elected by and from Districts 1 and 2.
Section 3.5. Special Elections and Referenda.
   Special elections and referenda may be held only as provided by general law
or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. CITY MANAGER
Section 4.1. City Manager; Appointment; Powers and Duties.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the City government. The City Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter, and the additional powers
and duties conferred by the Council, so far as authorized by general law.
Section 4.2. Manager’s Personnel Authority; Role of Elected Officials.
   As chief administrator, the City Manager shall have the power to appoint and
remove all officers, department heads and employees in the administrative
service of the City, except the City Attorney, who shall be appointed as
provided in Section 5.1 of this Charter. Neither the Mayor nor the Council nor
any of its members shall give orders or directions to any subordinate of the
Manager, either publicly or privately.
Section 4.3. Residency.
   At the time of appointment, the City Manager need not be a resident of the
City but shall reside therein during the tenure of office.
Section 4.4. Eligibility of Councilmembers.
   No person elected as a member of the City Council shall be eligible for
appointment as City Manager until one year shall have elapsed following the
expiration of the term for which the Councilmember was elected.
Section 4.5. Absence or Disability.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Manager, the Council may
designate a qualified administrative officer of the City to perform the duties
of the Manager during such absence or disability.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section 5.1. City Attorney.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to represent the
City, advise City officials and perform other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct.
Section 5.2. City Clerk.
   The City Manager shall appoint a City Clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the Council, to maintain official records and documents, to give
notice of meetings, and to perform such other duties required by law or as the
Manager may direct.
Section 5.3. Tax Collector.
   The City shall have a Tax Collector to collect all taxes owed to the City
and perform those duties specified in G.S. § 105-350 and such other duties as
prescribed by law or assigned by the City Manager. Notwithstanding the contrary
provisions of G.S. § 105-349, the Manager is authorized to appoint and remove
the Tax Collector.
Section 5.4. Director of Finance.
   The City Manager shall appoint a Director of Finance to perform the duties
designated in G.S. § 159-25 and such other duties as may be prescribed by law
or assigned by the Manager.
Section 5.5. Consolidation of Functions.
   The City Manager may, with the approval of the City Council, consolidate any
two or more of the positions of City Clerk, Director of Finance, and Tax
Collector or may assign the functions of any one or more of these positions to
the holder or holders of any other of these positions. The Manager may also,
with the approval of the Council, designate a single employee to perform the
functions of the named offices, in lieu of appointing several persons to
perform the same.
Section 5.6. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   The Council may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the
City Manager and may organize the City government as deemed appropriate,
subject to the requirements of general law.
ARTICLE VI. STREET IMPROVEMENTS
Section 6.1. Assessments for Street Improvements; Petition Unnecessary.
   In addition to any authority granted by general law, the Council may,
without the necessity of a petition, order street improvements and assess the
costs thereof against abutting property, exclusive of the costs incurred at
street intersections, according to one or more of the assessment bases set
forth in G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-239, upon the following findings of
fact:
      (a)   The street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear feet;
and
      (b)   (1)   The street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic or
creates a safety or health hazard, and it is in the public interest to make
such improvement; or
         (2)   It is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved; or
         (3)   It is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved, provided that assessments for widening any street or
portion of a street without a petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with street classification
and improvement standards established by the City’s thoroughfare or major
street plan for the particular street or part thereof.
Section 6.2. Street Improvement Defined.
   For the purposes of this Article, the term “street improvement” shall
include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving,
the acquisition of right-of-way, and the construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters, and street drainage facilities.
Section 6.3. Procedure; Effect of Assessment.
   In ordering street improvements without a petition and assessing the costs
thereof under authority of this Article, the Council shall comply with the
procedures provided by G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-239, except those
provisions relating to petitions of property owners and the sufficiency
thereof. The effect of the act of levying assessments under authority of this
Article shall be the same as if the assessments were levied under authority of
G.S. §§ 160A-216 through 160A-239.
ARTICLE VII. SIDEWALKS
Section 7.1. Property Owner’s Responsibility.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner in the City to keep clean and
free of debris, trash, and other obstacles or impediments the sidewalks
abutting his property.
Section 7.2. City Cleaning or Repair; Costs Become a Lien.
   The City Council may by ordinance establish a procedure whereby City forces
may remove from any sidewalk any debris, trash, ice, or snow upon failure of
the abutting property owner after twenty-four hours’ notice to do so. In such
event, the cost of such removal shall become a lien upon the abutting property
equal to the lien for ad valorem taxes and may thereafter be collected either
by suit in the name of the City or by foreclosure of the lien in the same
manner and subject to the same rules, regulations, costs, and penalties as
provided by law for the foreclosure of the lien on real estate for ad valorem
taxes.
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section 8.1. Motor Vehicle Tag Tax.
   The City is authorized to levy a license tax upon any motor vehicle resident
therein in the amount of eleven dollars per year, or in the amount authorized
by G.S. § 20-97(a), whichever is greater.
ARTICLE IX. PROPERTY DISPOSITION
Section 9.1. Disposal of Surplus Personal Property.
   The City may dispose of personal property valued at less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for any one item or group of items using the procedures
authorized in G.S. § 160A-266(c).
ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
Section 10.1. Settlement of Claims by City Manager.
   The Council may authorize the City Manager to settle claims against the City
for (1) personal injuries or damages to property when the amount involved does
not exceed the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and does not exceed the
actual loss sustained, including loss of time, medical expenses, and any other
expenses actually incurred; and (2) the taking of small portions of private
property which are needed for the rounding of corners at intersections of
streets, when the amount involved in any such settlement does not exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and does not exceed the actual loss sustained.
Settlement of a claim by the City Manager pursuant to this section shall
constitute a complete release of the City from any and all damages sustained by
the person involved in such settlement in any manner arising out of the
accident, occasion, or taking complained of. All such settlements and all such
releases shall be approved in advance by the City Attorney.
ARTICLE XI. FIREMEN’S SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT FUND
Section 11.1. Supplemental Retirement Fund.
   The Roanoke Rapids Firemen’s Supplemental Retirement Fund shall continue as
authorized by Chapter 312, session Laws of 1977, as amended by Chapter 247,
Session Laws of 1989, and any subsequent acts.
Legislative history: Adopted by the Roanoke Rapids City Council on January 10,
1995 and ratified by the North Carolina General Assembly on April 13, 1995.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Roanoke Rapids, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the “Code of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina”
and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.
      CITY. The City of Roanoke Rapids, in the County of Halifax, North
Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and, if the last
day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the City of Roanoke
Rapids, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Halifax, North Carolina.
      EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The land lying within one mile in
all directions of the corporate limits of the city, and not located in the
corporate limits of any other municipality, nor within any part of that area
lying within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of any municipality.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Roanoke Rapids.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the city.
      OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made
to an OFFICIAL, a BOARD or a COMMISSION by title only, it shall be deemed to
refer to the official, board or commission of the city.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STATUTE REFERENCES. Whenever reference is made, for example, to G.S. §
160A-272, it shall be construed to refer to the General Statutes of North
Carolina, Section 160A-272, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the city and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE/TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      WRITING/WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following,
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof
that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed. All such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set forth at length in this code:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or
any evidence of the city’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like any street or public way in
the city;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
city;
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance;
      (17)   Any ordinance relating to Social Security and retirement benefits
for city officers and employees; and/or
      (18)   Any ordinance extending extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Governing body may omit ordinances of limited interest or transitory nature
from code, see G.S. § 160A-77(a)
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following:
      “Section                of the Code of Ordinances, City of Roanoke
Rapids,
      North Carolina, is hereby amended as follows...”
      (2)   The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   (1)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be
added, language substantially similar to the following shall be used:
      “The Code of Ordinances, City of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, is
hereby amended
      by adding a section, to be numbered                , which section shall
read as follows:...”
      (2)   The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   The history notes following sections and the references scattered
throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the benefit of
the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless a greater amount is specified in an ordinance, an act constituting a
violation of the provisions of any ordinance or a failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50, which
includes administrative fees. Each day any single violation continues shall be
a separate violation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in an ordinance, a
violation shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the
offender fails to correct a violation by the prescribed deadline after being
notified of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in
the nature of a debt.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   CITY OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Organization and procedures
   
30.02   Filing fee for elections
Meetings
   
30.15   Police Chief to attend
   
30.16   Time and place
   
30.17   Closing of agenda
   
30.18   Proposals to expend funds; adoption or repeal of ordinances restricted
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Chapter 34
   Finance and Taxation, see
Chapter 32
   Policies and Procedures, see
Chapter 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   The organization and procedures of City Council shall be in accordance with
G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 5, Part 3 entitled “Cities and Towns,” and the City
Charter.
(1997 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 FILING FEE FOR ELECTIONS.
   At the time of filing a notice of candidacy, each candidate for Mayor and
Councilmember shall pay to the County Board of Elections with which he or she
files under the provisions of G.S. § 163-106 a filing fee for the office he or
she seeks.
(1997 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. passed 8-26-1975)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 POLICE CHIEF TO ATTEND.
   The Chief of Police shall attend all meetings of the City Council at the
hour appointed, and remain in attendance until the close of the session unless
otherwise ordered. He or she shall send for or cause to be sent for all absent
members under the direction of the Mayor or other presiding officer, and shall
obey all orders of the Mayor or other presiding officer in enforcing order and
decorum.
(1997 Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.16 TIME AND PLACE.
    Regular meetings of the Roanoke Rapids City Council shall be held on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month at 5:30 p.m. at the Lloyd Andrews City
Meeting Hall at 700 Jackson Street.
(1997 Code, § 30.16) (Ord. 1998-01, passed 1-13-1998; Ord. passed 10-22-2002;
Ord. 2015-08, passed 6-16-2015; Ord. 2020.10, passed 12-15-2020; Ord. 2021.01,
passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2023.01, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 30.17 CLOSING OF AGENDA.
   The agenda for regular meetings shall be closed as of 12:00 noon on the
Thursday preceding the date of the meeting.
(1997 Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.18 PROPOSALS TO EXPEND FUNDS; ADOPTION OR REPEAL OF ORDINANCES RESTRICTED.
   No proposition to appropriate money, to alter or repeal any ordinance or
rule of Council, or to establish any new rule, shall be made or decided at any
other than a regular meeting except by unanimous vote of those entitled to vote
who are present at such other than a regular meeting.
(1997 Code, § 30.18)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Minutes of meetings to go to City Clerk
   
31.002   City Council appointment policy
Parks and Recreation Department
   
31.015   Department of Parks and Recreation; office of Director of Recreation
established
   
31.016   Duties of Director of Parks and Recreation
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
31.030   Establishment and functions
   
31.031   Composition; terms of office
   
31.032   Meetings
   
31.033   Officers
   
31.034   Report of activities
Historic Preservation Advisory Committee
   31.060   Establishment
   
31.061   Functions
   
31.062   Composition; terms of office; vacancies
   
31.063   Election of officers
   
31.064   Meetings
   
31.065   Report of activities
   
31.066   Acceptance of funds
Beautification Committee
   
31.080   Membership; terms; vacancies; compensation
   
31.081   Officers; adoption of rules; keeping records; quorum
   
31.082   Powers
   
31.083   Submission of budget request to City Council
   
31.084   Acceptance of contributions
Library Advisory Committee
   
31.095   Establishment
   
31.096   Composition; terms of office; vacancies
   
31.097   Officers
   
31.098   Functions
   
31.099   Meetings
Minimum Housing Committee
   
31.110   Establishment
Canal Museum Advisory Committee
   
31.125   Establishment
   
31.126   Purpose
   
31.127   Composition; terms of office; vacancies
   
31.128   Election of officers; officers and duties
   
31.129   Meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 MINUTES OF MEETINGS TO GO TO CITY CLERK.
   Minutes of all city boards, commissions and committees shall be forwarded to
the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 31.001) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.002 CITY COUNCIL APPOINTMENT POLICY.
   The “Policy and Procedures for Appointments to City Boards, Commissions,
Committees or Authorities” adopted by the City Council on February 13, 1996,
and any amendments thereto, shall govern appointments.
(1997 Code, § 31.002) (Ord. passed - -)
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
§ 31.015 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION; OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND
RECREATION ESTABLISHED.
   Subject to the general control and supervision of the City Manager, there is
hereby created the Department of Parks and Recreation and the office of
Director of Parks and Recreation.
(1997 Code, § 31.010)
§ 31.016 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have general supervision,
direction and control over all public parks and recreation personnel, programs,
activities, facilities and areas of the city.
(1997 Code, § 31.011)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.030 ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS.
   There is hereby created a Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee which
shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   To assist in the formulation of plans of parks and recreation for the
city;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the City Manager and City Council from time
to time with respect to parks and recreation programs, facilities, resources
and needs of the city;
   (C)   To advise with the City Manager with respect to the conduct of parks
and recreation programs and activities;
   (D)   To assist in the coordination of the City Parks and Recreation Program
with that of private, public or semipublic agencies; and
   (E)   To perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 31.020)
§ 31.031 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall be composed of nine
members, who shall be appointed by the City Council to serve without
compensation for terms of three years, with the exception of the members first
appointed, one-third of whom shall be appointed for terms of one year, and one-
third of whom shall be appointed for terms of two years, and one-third of whom
shall be appointed for terms of three years. Any vacancy arising from a cause
other than expiration of term shall be filled only for the unexpired portion of
the term. No member shall serve more than two consecutive terms without an
intervening period of three years.
(1997 Code, § 31.021) (Ord. passed 9-11-1990)
§ 31.032 MEETINGS.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall hold meetings regularly at
least once a quarter on such days and at such hours as may be fixed by the
Committee. Special meetings may be held on call of the Chairperson upon 24
hours’ notice to the members of the Committee. A copy of the minutes of all
meetings shall be sent to the City Manager.
(1997 Code, § 31.022) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 31.033 OFFICERS.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall annually elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its members. The Director of Parks and
Recreation shall serve as the Secretary.
(1997 Code, § 31.023)
§ 31.034 REPORT OF ACTIVITIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall make a report of its
activities and plans to the City Council at least annually before July 1.
(1997 Code, § 31.024)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Historic Preservation Advisory Committee.
(1997 Code, § 31.040) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.061 FUNCTIONS.
   The Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall perform the following
functions:
   (A)   Provide input and guidance in the formulation of plans for preserving
historic properties in the city;
   (B)   Encourage and assist in the development or adaptive reuse of historic
properties in the city;
   (C)   Facilitate and coordinate activities to preserve public and private
historic properties in the city;
   (D)   Develop public educational and informational activities related to the
preservation of historic properties and resources in the city;
   (E)   Seek voluntary compliance and adherence to preserving historic
properties in the city;
   (F)   Facilitate the coordination of historic preservation efforts by
various agencies and groups involved in the city;
   (G)   Seek funds from various private and public sources for historic
preservation activities; and
   (H)   Perform other duties related to historic preservation in the city as
may be assigned by City Council.
(1997 Code, § 31.041) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.062 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall be composed of nine
members to be appointed by the City Council as follows.
   (A)   Three members shall be appointed to serve a term of one year, three
members shall serve a term of two years, and three members shall serve a term
of three years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. All
terms shall be for three years thereafter. Appointments shall comply with the
City Council Appointment Policy. Vacancies shall be filled as they occur for
the unexpired term.
   (B)   In making appointments to the Committee, the Mayor and City Council
shall seek to appoint persons who possess skills, experience and interest in
the preservation of historic properties.
   (C)   The members of the Committee shall serve without pay.
(1997 Code, § 31.042) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.063 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Committee shall annually elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
Secretary-Treasurer from among its members.
(1997 Code, § 31.043) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.064 MEETINGS.
   The Historic Preservation Advisory Committee shall hold meetings regularly
at least once quarterly and at such hour and place as may be fixed by the
Committee.
(1997 Code, § 31.044) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.065 REPORT OF ACTIVITIES.
   The Committee shall make a report of its activities to the City Council at
least annually, no later than December 31 of each year. Minutes of each meeting
shall be kept and filed with the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 31.045) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
§ 31.066 ACCEPTANCE OF FUNDS.
   The Committee is hereby authorized to solicit and receive funds from private
or public sources for historic preservation activities with the approval of the
City Council. Funds solicited and received for public use shall be
appropriately deposited with the city and appropriated for proper use by the
City Council.
(1997 Code, § 31.046) (Ord. passed 11-12-2002)
BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE
§ 31.080 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Beautification Committee shall consist of nine members. Members
shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council to serve three-year terms.
Vacancies occurring for reasons other than the expiration of terms shall be
filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term.
   (B)   In making appointments to the Committee, the Mayor and City Council
shall seek to appoint persons who possess qualities of impartiality, maturity
and broad judgment, and in whom the community at large may be expected to have
confidence.
   (C)   Members of the Committee shall serve without pay.
   (D)   Pursuant to Council action taken on January 10, 2006, the Council and
staff representatives serving as ex-officio members shall serve as voting
members, in addition to serving in an advisory capacity.
(1997 Code, § 31.050) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-14-1981)
§ 31.081 OFFICERS; ADOPTION OF RULES; KEEPING RECORDS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Beautification Committee shall elect a Chairperson and any other
officers as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election. The Committee shall adopt
rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its
members’ attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and
recommendations, which records shall be open to the public.
   (B)   The Committee shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public. For the purpose of taking any official
action authorized or required by this division (B), there shall be present a
quorum of four members.
(1997 Code, § 31.051) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.082 POWERS.
   The Beautification Committee shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of programs of
general community beautification in the city and its environs;
   (B)   To seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies,
organizations and groups, public and private, whose plans, activities and
programs bear upon the appearance of the city and its environs;
   (C)   To provide leadership and guidance in matters of design and appearance
to individuals, organizations and groups, public and private, who shall request
such assistance;
   (D)   To prepare both general and specific plans for the improved appearance
of the city. Such plans may include the entire city or any part thereof, and
may include private as well as public property. Such plans shall set forth
desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the city or any
part thereof, including public ways and areas, open spaces and public and
private buildings and projects;
   (E)   To direct city officials’ attention to needed enforcement of any
ordinance which in any way may affect the appearance of the city;
   (F)   To seek, through any appropriate means, voluntary adherence to the
standards and policies of its plans;
   (G)   To assume responsibility for seeking funds from various public and
private sources; and
   (H)   To keep the general public informed about what is taking place in all
phases of the city’s beautification effort.
(1997 Code, § 31.052) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.083 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET REQUEST TO CITY COUNCIL.
   Not later than April 1 of each year, the Beautification Committee shall
submit in writing to the City Council its requested budget of funds needed for
operation during the ensuing fiscal year. All accounts and funds of the
Commission shall be administered in accordance with the requirements of G.S. §§
159-24 to 159-38.
(1997 Code, § 31.053) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.084 ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The Beautification Committee is hereby authorized to receive
contributions from private agencies, foundations, organizations, individuals,
the state or federal government, or any other source, with the approval of the
City Council, in addition to any sums which may be appropriated for its use by
the City Council.
   (B)   It may accept and disburse such contributions for special purposes or
projects, subject to any specified conditions which it deems acceptable,
whether or not such projects are included in the approved budget.
(1997 Code, § 31.054) (Ord. passed - -)
LIBRARY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.095 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Library Advisory Committee.
(1997 Code, § 31.065) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.096 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The Library Advisory Committee shall be composed of nine members to be
appointed by the City Council.
   (A)   Members appointed shall serve a term of three years and until their
successors are appointed and qualified. No member shall serve more than two
consecutive terms.
   (B)   Members of the Library Advisory Committee shall serve without
compensation.
(1997 Code, § 31.066) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-8-1977)
§ 31.097 OFFICERS.
   The Library Advisory Committee shall appoint from its membership a
Chairperson and such other officers as it may deem necessary for the orderly
procedure of its business.
(1997 Code, § 31.067) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-8-1977)
§ 31.098 FUNCTIONS.
   The Library Advisory Committee shall perform the following functions:
   (A)   To assist in the formulation of plans of the library for the city;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the City Manager and City Council from time
to time with respect to the library programs, facilities, resources and needs
of the city;
   (C)   To advise with the City Manager with respect to the conduct of library
programs and activities;
   (D)   To assist in the coordination of the city library program with that of
private, public or semipublic agencies; and
   (E)   To perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Council.
(1997 Code, § 31.068) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-8-1977)
§ 31.099 MEETINGS.
   The Library Advisory Committee shall hold meetings regularly at least once
quarterly and at such hours as may be fixed by the Committee. Special meetings
may be held on call of the Chairperson upon 24 hours’ notice to the members of
the Committee.
(1997 Code, § 31.069) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 2-8-1977)
MINIMUM HOUSING COMMITTEE
§ 31.110 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Minimum Housing Committee is hereby established to set minimum standards
of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for
human habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-185.
(1997 Code, § 31.100) (Res. passed 6-13-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Minimum housing standards, see
Ch. 152
CANAL MUSEUM ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 31.125 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Canal Museum Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-2-2010)
§ 31.126 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Canal Museum Advisory Committee is to render advice and counsel to
the Canal Museum Director concerning policies and procedures of the Canal
Museum with the objective of ensuring that quality Museum services are provided
to the residents of the city.
   (B)   This Committee is only advisory in nature and shall not have the
authority to directly supervise or run the daily operations of the Canal
Museum. The daily operations and formal rule making authority for the Canal
Museum shall remain with the City Manager or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-2-2010)
§ 31.127 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The Canal Museum Advisory Committee shall be composed of seven members to be
appointed by the City Council as follows.
   (A)   Two members shall be appointed to serve a term of one year, two
members shall serve a term of two years, and three members shall serve a term
of three years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. All
terms shall be for three years thereafter. Appointments shall comply with the
City Council Appointment Policy. Vacancies shall be filled as they occur for
the unexpired term.
   (B)   One member is to be a school official from the Roanoke Rapids Graded
School District and a resident of the city. One member is to be a tourism
official from the County Convention and Visitor’s Bureau. One member is to be
an official from the County Arts Council and a resident of the city. One member
is to be a standing member of the Friends of the Canal and a resident of the
city, one member is to be an active officer from the Canal Commission. The
remaining two members will be made up of city residents. The City Council, in
its discretion, may appoint up to three more non-voting, ex-officio members of
the Canal Museum Advisory Committee, including, but not limited to: one
actively serving member of the City Council and one actively serving member of
the County Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   The term of office shall run from May 1 to April 30.
   (D)   The members of the Committee shall serve without pay.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-2-2010)
§ 31.128 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   The Committee shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary
from among its members at the first meeting in June each year. Each such office
holder must be a voting member of the Committee.
   (A)   Chairperson. The members of the Committee shall elect a Chairperson
annually. The term shall be for one year, and he or she shall be eligible for
re-election. The Chairperson shall decide all points of order and procedure
unless directed otherwise by a majority of the Committee in session at the
time.
   (B)   Vice-Chairperson. The Committee from among its members shall elect a
Vice-Chairperson in the same manner and for the same term as the Chairperson.
The Vice-Chairperson shall serve as acting Chairperson in the absence or
disability of the Chairperson, and at such times he or she shall have and may
exercise the same powers and duties as the Chairperson.
   (C)   Secretary. The Committee from among its members shall elect a
Secretary in the same manner and for the same term as the Chairperson. The
Secretary shall keep minutes of every meeting of the Committee and provide the
City Manager with a copy of the minutes of all meetings.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-2-2010)
§ 31.129 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Committee shall be held at
least quarterly and at such hours as may be fixed by the Committee.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Chairperson may call special meetings of the
Committee if at least 48 hours’ notice is given of the time, place and subject
of the special meeting.
   (C)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there is no business to come before
the Committee, or it is determined that a quorum will not be present, the
Chairperson may dispense with a regular meeting by giving notice to all members
and the local news media, and by posting notice on the door of the Canal
Museum.
   (D)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the
Committee.
   (E)   Conduct of meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public. The
order of business at regular meetings shall generally be as follows:
         (a)   Roll call;
         (b)   Approval of minutes of previous meetings;
         (c)   Reports of committees;
         (d)   Unfinished business; and
         (e)   New business.
      (2)   Any Committee member may place a relevant item on the meeting
agenda so long as requested in writing to an officer at least 48 hours before
the meeting time of a regular meeting, or if approved by a majority of voting
members at the beginning of a regular meeting.
   (F)   Voting. The vote of a majority of those members present shall be
sufficient to decide any matter before the Committee provided a quorum is
present.
   (G)   Attendance requirements. In accordance with the city’s Appointment
Policy, if appointees have unexcused absences which constitute more than 25% of
the Committee meetings in any calendar year which they are required to attend
pursuant to their appointment, they are obligated to resign. Excused absences
are defined as absences caused by events beyond one’s control (i.e., illness of
appointee). The Committee shall determine whether or not an absence is excused
or unexcused. If individuals refuse to resign, they may be dismissed by action
of the City Council subject to state or local law. A calendar year for purposes
of attendance only is to be defined as a 12-month period beginning on the date
of appointment.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 1-2-2010; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Taxation
   
32.01   Ineligibility to hold city office or special license for failure to pay
taxes
Short-Term Vehicle Lease or Rental Tax
   
32.15   Definitions
   
32.16   Levy of tax
   
32.17   Collection of tax
   
32.18   Report and payment of tax
   
32.19   Taxpayer to keep records
   
32.20   Tax Collector to provide forms
   
32.21   Situs
   
32.22   Administration
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Policies and Procedures, see
Chapter 33
TAXATION
§ 32.01 INELIGIBILITY TO HOLD CITY OFFICE OR SPECIAL LICENSE FOR FAILURE TO PAY
TAXES.
   Any person failing to pay his or her taxes, and who thereby becomes a
delinquent or insolvent, shall be ineligible to hold any city office, by
election or appointment, and shall not be granted the privilege of conducting
any business for which a special license is required.
(1997 Code, § 32.01)
SHORT-TERM VEHICLE LEASE OR RENTAL TAX
§ 32.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference to a
particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return if the state return does not separately state
gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
gross receipts.
   LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer of possession or control of tangible personal
property for a fixed or indeterminate term for consideration. The term does not
include any of the following:
      (1)   A transfer of possession or control of property under a security
agreement or deferred payment plan that requires the transfer of title upon
completion of the required payments.
      (2)   A transfer of possession or control of property under an agreement
that requires the transfer of title upon completion of required payments and
payment of an option price that does not exceed the greater of $100 or 1% of
the total required payments.
      (3)   The providing of tangible personal property along with an operator
for a fixed or indeterminate period of time if the operator is necessary for
the equipment to perform as designed. For the purpose of this division (3), an
operator must do more than maintain, inspect, or set up the tangible personal
property.
(G.S. § 105-164.(121))
   LONG-TERM LEASE or RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent one or more vehicles to the same person for a period of at
least 365 continuous days and that is not a vehicle subscription.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(a)(3))
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm or
other legal entity.
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 105-187.1(a)(4), 160A-215.1(e)(2))
   TAX COLLECTOR.  The individual appointed by the City Manager, pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the municipal charter), to collect taxes on
behalf of the city and any other person authorized to carry out the duties and
functions of such individual.
   TAX PAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck or truck with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver’s license; or
      (3)   A trailer or semitrailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(e)(1))
(1997 Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-
14-2010)
§ 32.16 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross receipts
derived from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the
general public. This tax on gross receipts is in addition to the privilege
taxes authorized by G.S. § 160A-215.1.
(1997 Code, § 32.16) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 32.17 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental of
vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect at the time of the lease
or rental the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a segregated
account, and thereafter remit such tax to the Tax Collector in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a provision in
each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the percentage
amount enacted by this subchapter of the total lease or rental price, excluding
sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts. The amount of the tax
shall be stated separately from the lease or rental and shown separately on the
taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by the customer to the taxpayer as
trustee for and on account of the village. The taxpayer shall be liable for the
collection thereof and for its payment to the Tax Collector and the taxpayer’s
failure to charge or to collect the tax from the customer shall not effect such
liability.
(1997 Code, § 32.17) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.18 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Taxes levied under this chapter are due and payable when a return is
required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified, submit a
return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax Collector.
   (B)   A return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent.
Returns of taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the
fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the tax accrues.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a
public record and information contained in a return may be disclosed only in
accordance therewith.
(1997 Code, § 32.18) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.19 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by such taxpayer in the conduct of business and such other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which such
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records
books and accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all
reasonable hours during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly
authorized agent.
(1997 Code, § 32.19) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 32.20 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare and make available to all taxpayers
operating within the municipal boundaries of the city forms and instructions
for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an accounting for taxes
due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive forms shall not relieve
such taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time and in the manner
provided.
(1997 Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 32.21 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be deemed to have
occurred at the location of the entity form which the customer takes delivery
of the vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 32.21) (G.S. § 160A-215.1(b)) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 32.22 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions herein, the levy and collection of the taxes
herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the sales
and use tax as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Art. 5, Subchapter 1.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d)) (1997 Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to G.S.
Chapter 105, Subchapter VIII (Local Government Sales and Use Tax), as contained
in G.S. Chapter 105, Articles 5 and 9 thereof, shall be applicable in like
manner to the tax authorized to be levied and collected under the ordinance, to
the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The
governing body of the city may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may
exercise in collecting sales and use taxes.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(f)) (1997 Code, § 32.99) (Ord. 2000-29, passed 10-10-2000)
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
33.01   Public enterprises; operation without franchise prohibited
§ 33.01 PUBLIC ENTERPRISES; OPERATION WITHOUT FRANCHISE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate an enterprise as designated by G.S. § 160A-311
within the city without first obtaining a franchise from the city, nor shall
any person continue to operate such enterprise after the expiration of such
franchise, except as provided by law.
(1997 Code, § 34.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
34.01   City Clerk
   
34.02   City Attorney
   
34.03   City Tax Collector
   
34.04   City Manager/Budget Officer
§ 34.01 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The office of City Clerk is hereby established pursuant to G.S. §
160A-171 and Charter §
5.2.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 159-24, the City Clerk is hereby authorized to
perform the duties of City Finance Director.
(1997 Code, § 35.01)
§ 34.02 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The office of City Attorney is hereby established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
173 and Charter §
5.1.
(1997 Code, § 35.02)
§ 34.03 CITY TAX COLLECTOR.
   The office of City Tax Collector is hereby established pursuant to G.S. §
105-349 and Charter §
5.3.
(1997 Code, § 35.03)
§ 34.04 CITY MANAGER/BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   The office of City Manager is hereby established pursuant to G.S. §§
160A-147 through 160A-151 and
Charter Art. IV.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 159-9, the City Manager is hereby authorized to
perform the duties of Budget Officer.
(1997 Code, § 35.04)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Residential containers
   
50.03   Dumpsters to be used for multiple housing units
   
50.04   Dumpster screening required for multi-family housing units
   
50.05   Residential construction site requirements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATED JUNK. Wrecked, scrapped, disassembled, unusable, inoperable or
unrepairable construction equipment, appliances, vehicle tires, engines,
transmissions, frames, axles, as well as parts and accessories of these
objects; used building materials and all other non-vegetative debris collected
or stored at a private residence or property or business establishment, or any
non-vegetative debris blown or otherwise deposited onto property owned by third
persons, by flood, storm or other natural event.
   ASHES. Refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted
for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services, for
amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs, warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures on premises used for
or adapted to business purposes.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste that is the direct by-product of construction of
buildings including such materials as excavated earth, stone, bricks, plaster,
shingles, tiles, concrete, large stumps, shrubs, limbs and other material that
we associate with clearing, remodeling and landscaping projects.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the city or his or
her agent.
   DUMPSTER. A painted heavy gauge steel receptacle with a capacity of not more
than eight cubic yards, nor less than four cubic yards and approved by the
Department of Public Works for the disposal and collection of commercial,
industrial and residential solid waste.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessarily incidental thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste from factories, processing plants or other
industrial enterprises that is a by- product of the manufacture, processing or
major repair of a product.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars,
bottles, aluminum cans, steel cans, plastic soda bottles, newspapers and
inserts, plastic milk and water jugs, spiral paper cans and other solid waste
including yard waste. Residential solid waste shall not include discarded
building materials, trees, brush and other material resulting from the
activities of building contractors or lawn services, larger quantities of sod,
dirt and trash from land clearing or other material requiring special handling.
   REFUSE. Waste materials resulting from normal day to day cleaning and
operation of a residence, commercial and business activity excluding
industrial, garbage and construction waste. REFUSE includes yard trimmings,
limbs, grass, weeds, small boxes, leaves, cold ashes, garden waste and other
material in small quantities normally coming from occupied premises.
   ROLLOUT CONTAINERS. Ninety-six gallon capacity container of plastic or
comparable material on wheels and approved by the Department of Public Works
for disposal of residential solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(1997 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 50.02 RESIDENTIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person owning, managing, leasing,
occupying or operating any premises to have at least one, but no more than two
90-gallon rollout containers for the deposit of all garbage. The city will
provide the first rollout receptacle. Any additional container may be purchased
from the city at a set rate. Such container shall be placed at the street or in
the alley on the day of collection.
   (B)   No person shall deposit any garbage within the corporate limits of the
city except in the garbage residential containers as above specified.
(1997 Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 DUMPSTERS TO BE USED FOR MULTIPLE HOUSING UNITS.
   All new multiple housing units with more than five units and all new mobile
home parks with more than five mobile homes shall provide, use and maintain
dumpster units. The number and type shall be specified by the Planning Board.
Any change in the type of sanitation service now provided shall require
compliance with this section.
(1997 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 3-13-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 DUMPSTER SCREENING REQUIRED FOR MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
   Multi-family housing complexes that are required to provide dumpsters,
rather than rollout containers, as determined by the policies of the City
Public Works Director, shall screen such dumpsters from public view to
accomplish the following objectives:
   (A)   The location of dumpsters shall be determined by the Public Works
Director after consultation with the owner of the premises concerned. In making
this determination, the Public Works Director shall consider the needs of the
occupants of the premises, the welfare of the occupants and neighbors, and the
city’s need to facilitate collection;
   (B)   Screening of dumpsters at multi-family housing complexes shall be
required in order to prevent solid wastes from being transported onto
neighboring properties and to prevent an offensive appearance; and
   (C)   All such dumpsters shall be opaquely screened by a fence, wall, berm
or other means acceptable to the Public Works Director.
(1997 Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 2007.04, passed 2-13-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every property owner, builder, developer, contractor or any other licensed
person who undertakes to demolish, remodel, build and construct a dwelling
unit, or any residential structure in the zoning jurisdiction of the city shall
meet the following standards.
   (A)   A dumpster, at least eight cubic yards in size, shall be located on
all new residential construction sites unless a suitable alternative means of
collecting and disposing of construction and/or demolition debris is approved
by the Code Enforcement Supervisor or his or her designee. Dumpsters shall be
located on private property and shall be painted in dark brown, dark blue, dark
green or other muted color. Signage on dumpsters shall be limited to the
identification of the dumpster manufacturer or the contractor’s business name
and phone number. The total surface area allowed for such signage shall not
exceed four square feet in total surface area.
   (B)   Site building supplies, including bricks and lumber (with the
exception of large trusses), must be stacked and covered nights, weekends and
anytime work is not in progress.
   (C)   On-site building materials are limited to those required for
completion of remaining construction; for example:
      (1)   Quantities of concrete block should not be on-site after completion
of foundation;
      (2)   Surplus bricks, sand and mortar mix should not be retained on-site
after completion of masonry work; and
      (3)   At no time should a building site be used as storage for vehicles
and equipment not being used for current construction activities.
   (D)   Portable toilets, construction driveways and any necessary silt fences
should be installed on-site prior to the commencement of any work after
obtaining appropriate permits.
   (E)   In the event a house or other residential structure under construction
or demolition is abandoned by the contractor prior to the completion, the
structure(s) and lot shall be cleaned and cleared of debris from construction
and other sources, and the structure(s) will be secured in a manner which will
serve to prevent vandalism, trespassing and vagrancy.
   (F)   In the event that any of the above listed items are not within the
scope of work which the owner has awarded to the builder, then the owner shall
be responsible for compliance with this section.
(1997 Code, § 50.05) (Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A $250 fine will be assessed for each violation of §
50.04.
(1997 Code, § 50.04)
   (C)   A $250 fine will be assessed for each violation of §
50.05.
(1997 Code, § 50.05)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
Connections Required
   
51.01   Connection to public water main
   
51.02   Connection to public sewer main
   
51.03   Permit required for installation and connection of water or plumbing
fixture to sewer or water line
CONNECTIONS REQUIRED
§ 51.01 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER MAIN.
   By the authority of G.S. § 160A-317, every person owning a house, apartment
house, restaurant, building or structure used for sleeping quarters or wherein
any person is employed inside the city, which is located a distance of 200 feet
or less from a public water main, shall connect such house, apartment house,
restaurant, building or structure to such public water main.
(1997 Code, § 51.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER MAIN.
   By the authority of G.S. § 160A-317, every person owning a house, apartment
house, restaurant, building or structure used for sleeping quarters or wherein
any person is employed inside the city, which is located a distance of 200 feet
or less from a public sewer main, shall connect such house, apartment house,
restaurant, building or structure to such public sewer main.
(1997 Code, § 51.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF WATER OR PLUMBING
FIXTURE TO SEWER OR WATER LINE.
   No water or plumbing fixture shall be installed and no building or toilet
fixture shall be connected with a public sanitary sewer or a water line without
first obtaining a plumbing permit.
(1997 Code, § 51.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Official traffic maps
   
70.03   [Reserved]
   
70.04   Authority of police in emergencies
   
70.05   Application of regulations to public employees
   
70.06   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Application to persons propelling pushcarts or riding bicycles or
animals
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   [Reserved]
   
70.21   No-parking zone and safety zone markers
   
70.22   Interference with official traffic-control devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used in this traffic code shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by G.S. Ch. 20.
(1997 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC MAPS.
   (A)   There shall be kept on file, in the office of the City Clerk, official
traffic maps on which shall be shown:
      (1)   The location of traffic-control devices;
      (2)   The location of areas or zones where certain regulations are
applicable to the parking of vehicles;
      (3)   The location of stop intersections;
      (4)   The location of yield intersections;
      (5)   The location of one-way streets;
      (6)   The location of loading areas, bus stops and taxicab stands;
      (7)   Speed limits applicable to certain streets;
      (8)   The location of streets where certain regulations are applicable to
trucks, such as weight limits for operation on the city streets;
      (9)   The location of intersections at which “U-turns” are allowed; and
      (10)   The location of intersections at which right turns are prohibited
at a red light.
   (B)   The official traffic maps of the city shall constitute the official
codification of the city’s ordinances relative to those areas of traffic
regulations set forth in division (A) above.
(1997 Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 [RESERVED].
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN EMERGENCIES.
   In the event of fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(1997 Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state, county
or city. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state law.
(1997 Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing
of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in G.S. §§
20-145 and 20-146, except as follows:
   (A)   Unless otherwise directed by a police officer, a driver, when
operating such vehicle in any emergency, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits, so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequence of his or her reckless disregard for the
safety of others.
(1997 Code, § 70.06)
§ 70.07 APPLICATION TO PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING BICYCLES OR
ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this title which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(1997 Code, § 70.07)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 [RESERVED].
§ 70.21 NO-PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
(1997 Code, § 70.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, deface, molest, change the
position of, alter or destroy any street or highway marker or traffic sign of
any kind within the corporate limits of the city.
(1997 Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this Traffic Code shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered
by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not
pay the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation
for violation of the Traffic Code ordinance.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of selected violations of the Traffic Code for
which the civil penalty is $50.
      (1)   Parking too close to corner (§
70.21).
      (2)   Blocking a marked driveway (§
70.21).
      (3)   Parking in a no parking zone (§
70.21).
      (4)   Speeding in alleys (§
71.01).
      (5)   Vehicles not to block intersections or crosswalks (§
71.02).
      (6)   Limitations on turning around (§
71.03).
      (7)   Use of truck lanes by vehicles over seven tons (§
71.06).
      (8)   Boarding and alighting from vehicles (§
71.20).
      (9)   Riding upon vehicles not designated for passenger use (§
71.21).
      (10)   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission (§
71.22).
      (11)   Driving through funeral processions prohibited (§
71.23).
      (12)   Clinging to moving vehicles (§
71.24).
      (13)   Use of coasters, roller skates, skateboards and the like (§
71.25).
      (14)   Duty to stay inside moving vehicles; hanging onto vehicles (§
71.26).
      (15)   Limitation on number of persons in front seat (§
71.27).
      (16)   Parking more than 12 inches from curb (§
72.03(A)).
      (17)   Parking backed to curb (§
72.03(B)).
      (18)   Parking on the left side of curb (§
72.03(C)).
      (19)   Parking outside lines (§
72.03(D)).
      (20)   Stopping, standing, or parking in prohibited areas (§
72.05).
      (21)   Standing or parking prohibited for certain purposes (§
72.06).
      (22)   Standing or parking for primary purposes of advertising (§
72.07).
      (23)   Moving vehicles owned by other operators into restricted areas (§
72.08).
      (24)   Parking of certain vehicles limited to one hour (§
72.09).
      (25)   Parking in designated places prohibited at all times; enforcement
(§
72.10).
      (26)   Moving cars from parked positions (§
72.11).
      (27)   Parking of certain trucks in residential areas (§
72.12).
      (28)   Violation of two-hour parking regulations (§
72.40).
      (29)   Operation of a bicycle on a sidewalk or walkway (§
73.01).
      (30)   Failure to use handlebars on a bicycle or motorcycle (§
73.02).
      (31)   Bicycle lighting violation (§
73.03).
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 6-2-2015; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation of Vehicles Generally
   
71.01   Speeding in alleys
   
71.02   Vehicles not to block intersections or crosswalks
   
71.03   Limitations on turning around
   
71.04   [Reserved]
   
71.05   [Reserved]
   
71.06   Use of truck lanes by vehicles over seven tons
Prohibited Acts
   
71.20   Boarding and alighting from vehicles
   
71.21   Riding upon vehicles not designated for passenger use
   
71.22   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
71.23   [Reserved]
   
71.24   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
71.25   Use of coasters, roller skates, skateboards and the like
   
71.26   Duty to stay inside moving vehicles; hanging onto vehicles
   
71.27   Limitation on number of persons in front seat
   
71.28   Establishment of disabled parking spaces on private property devoted to
public use
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY
§ 71.01 SPEEDING IN ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any alley
in the city at a greater rate of speed than ten mph.
(1997 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 VEHICLES NOT TO BLOCK INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(1997 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
where a traffic signal is displayed or in the business district.
(1997 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 [RESERVED].
§ 71.05 [RESERVED].
§ 71.06 USE OF TRUCK LANES BY VEHICLES OVER SEVEN TONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a vehicle of any kind having a gross weight in excess of seven tons upon, over
or across any street or alley in the city unless such street or alley is
designated as a “truck lane.”
   (B)   In the event it is impossible for a vehicle having a gross weight in
excess of seven tons to reach its destination within the city by a “truck
lane,” the operator of such vehicle shall obtain permission from the Chief of
Police of the city before operating such vehicle upon, over or across any
street or alley not designated as a “truck lane.”
(1997 Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 71.20 BOARDING AND ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(1997 Code, § 71.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 RIDING UPON VEHICLES NOT DESIGNATED FOR PASSENGER USE.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle, or any
portion thereof, not designated or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty nor to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces
intended for merchandise.
(1997 Code, § 71.36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(1997 Code, § 71.37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 [RESERVED].
§ 71.24 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, skateboard,
roller skates or any toy vehicle shall not attach such vehicle or himself or
herself to any public conveyance or other moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(1997 Code, § 71.39) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.25 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller skates or skateboards, or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection, except upon streets set aside
as play streets.
(1997 Code, § 71.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26 DUTY TO STAY INSIDE MOVING VEHICLES; HANGING ONTO VEHICLES.
   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond the
limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give such signals
as are by law required, and no person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(1997 Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERSONS IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISABLED PARKING SPACES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY DEVOTED TO
PUBLIC USE.
    The establishment and marking of disabled parking on private property,
devoted to public use, shall be approved by the Department of Planning and
Zoning under the guidelines set up in Volume I, Chapter 3.4, of the State
Building Code, G.S. §§ 20-37.5 and 20-37.6.
(Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-20223)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   [Reserved]
   
72.03   Manner of parking vehicles
   
72.04   [Reserved]
   
72.05   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
   
72.06   Standing or parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.07   Standing or parking prohibited for primary purposes of advertising
   
72.08   Moving vehicles owned by other operators into restricted areas
   
72.09   Parking of certain vehicles limited to one hour
   
72.10   Parking in designated places prohibited at all times; enforcement
   
72.11   Moving cars from parked positions
   
72.12   Parking of certain trucks in residential areas
Two-Hour Parking Zones
   
72.25   Established
   
72.26   Hours when time limits effective
   
72.27   Designation of parking spaces
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.40   Violations
   
72.41   Reservation of powers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
street otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, receiving or discharging passengers; loading or unloading
merchandise; in obedience to traffic regulations, signs or signals; or an
involuntary stopping of the vehicle by reason of causes beyond the control of
the operator of the vehicle.
   PARKING LOT. Any area within the city on which more than five automobiles
may be parked and shall include public parking lots and those parking lots
which are for the principal purpose of providing parking during business hours
for shopping centers, stores, restaurants, drive-ins, theaters and other
business or commercial establishments.
   PARKING ZONE. Any restricted street upon which time zones for parking are
posted.
(1997 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. passed - -)
§ 72.02 [RESERVED].
§ 72.03 MANNER OF PARKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, and where the street is
not marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
   (B)   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
   (C)   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district; except, that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
   (D)   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking
spaces for cars, the same shall be parked between such lines.
(1997 Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
70.99 
§ 72.04 [RESERVED].
§ 72.05 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk, on the space between the sidewalk and the curb or on
the space between the curb or where a curb would normally be and a street
right-of-way line. The area to which the driveway approach provides access
shall be used to park vehicles using the portion of the driveway that is
completely off of the right-of-way;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 25 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (D)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (E)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (F)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building;
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street;
   (H)   Blocking unmarked and/or private driveway; or
   (I)   On the portion of a yard, lot or tract of land in any, residential
district or on any land used primarily for residential purposes or in any other
district, between the street right-of-way line and the street right-of-way
setback line that is not a driveway approved and constructed to city and/or
State Department of Transportation standards. The area to which the driveway
approach provides access may be used to store vehicles using the driveway
completely off the right-of-way.
(1997 Code, § 72.05) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 11-9-1976; Ord. 2008-15,
passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency; or
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons, when such
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of such vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED FOR PRIMARY PURPOSES OF ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stand or park any vehicle on any street for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(1997 Code, § 72.07) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.08 MOVING VEHICLES OWNED BY OTHER OPERATORS INTO RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from the curb to make such distance unlawful.
(1997 Code, § 72.08) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES LIMITED TO ONE HOUR.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stand a tractor and trailer, tractor and
semitrailer, a trailer, semitrailer, van, oil tanker or other tanker on any
street in the city at any time for a period longer than one hour, except when
such vehicle is actually being loaded or unloaded or when such vehicle is
incapacitated.
(1997 Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN DESIGNATED PLACES PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When signs are placed, erected or installed on any of the streets of
the city giving notice thereof or the curbing has been painted yellow in lieu
of such signs, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the
streets or portions of streets so marked or painted.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to remove or have removed
any vehicle parked in such no- parking areas.
(1997 Code, § 72.10) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Cars parked shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out in that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed.
(1997 Code, § 72.11) (Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PARKING OF CERTAIN TRUCKS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park on a city street for a period greater
than two hours any vehicle having a length in excess of 25 feet, or in excess
of ten feet in height, within a distance of 300 feet of any dwelling or
residence within the corporate limits of the city. This section shall not apply
to trucks immediately delivering items to or receiving items from dwellings or
residences.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to motor homes that are parked off public
streets.
(1997 Code, § 72.12) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
Penalty, see §
70.99
TWO-HOUR PARKING ZONES
§ 72.25 ESTABLISHED.
   Certain streets shall constitute a two-hour parking zone. See
Ch. 74, Sch. I.
(1997 Code, § 72.20) (Ord. passed 4-9-2002)
§ 72.26 HOURS WHEN TIME LIMITS EFFECTIVE.
   The two-hour parking time limits shall be effective in parking zones as
described in §
72.25 every day between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. except Sundays and
holidays as by law provided. See
Ch. 74, Sch. I for those specific streets.
(1997 Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 DESIGNATION OF PARKING SPACES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby directed and authorized to mark off individual
parking spaces in the parking zones designated and described in §
72.25 and in such other zones as may be established. Such parking spaces are to
be designated by lines painted or durably marked on the curbing or surface of
the street.
(1997 Code, § 72.22)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.40 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for
any person:
   (A)   To cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of or operated by such person to be parked overtime or beyond the period of
legal parking time established for any parking zone as herein described;
   (B)   To park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking space or
in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the area
designated by such lines or markings;
   (C)   To cause a change of position of a vehicle from one point directly to
another point in the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking period;
and/or
   (D)   To cause the removal of any mark from a vehicle tire for the purpose
of parking beyond the designated time limit.
(1997 Code, § 72.35) (Ord. passed 4-9-2002; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.41 RESERVATION OF POWERS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the city from
providing for bus stops, for taxicab stands and other matters of similar
nature, including the loading or unloading of trucks, vans or other commercial
vehicles.
(1997 Code, § 72.36)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Bicycles on sidewalk or walkway prohibited
   
73.02   Duty to use handlebars on bicycles or motorcycles
   
73.03   Lights required on bicycles
§ 73.01 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALK OR WALKWAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk or walkway within the
corporate limits.
(1997 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 DUTY TO USE HANDLEBARS ON BICYCLES OR MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having his or her hands upon the handlebars.
   (B)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not
carry any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of any such vehicle, nor
shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 LIGHTS REQUIRED ON BICYCLES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a lighted lamp on the front thereof,
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 300
feet in front of such bicycle, and shall also be equipped with a reflex mirror
or lamp on the rear, exhibiting a red light visible under like conditions from
a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of such bicycle, when used at
night.
(1997 Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Two-hour parking
SCHEDULE I. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   The following streets, areas or portions of streets shall constitute a
two-hour parking zone, namely:
      (1)   From 1st Street on Roanoke Avenue to the middle of the 300 block of
Roanoke Avenue;
      (2)   From Jackson Street to Hamilton Street on 2nd, 3rd, 9th and 11th
Streets;
      (3)   From Madison Street to Jackson Street on north side of 10th Street;
      (4)   From 10th Street to 11th Street on the east side of Jackson Street;
and
      (5)   From 9th Street on Roanoke Avenue to the middle of the 1100 block
of Roanoke Avenue.
   (B)   All frontage in such streets or avenues defining such zones shall be
included herein except as limited.
(1997 Code, § 72.20)
   (C)   The two-hour parking time limits shall be effective in parking zones
as described in division (A) above every day between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m. except Sundays and holidays as by law provided.
(1997 Code, § 72.21)
(Ord. passed 4-9-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   LITTERING
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
99.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful
   
90.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful
   
90.05   Junked motor vehicle unlawful
   
90.06   Pretowing notice requirements
   
90.07   Exceptions to pretowing notice requirements
   
90.08   Removal of vehicles; posttowing notice requirements
   
90.09   Hearing
   
90.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.14   Exceptions
   
90.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
90.16   Towing rotation list
   
90.17   Towing business; qualifications
   
90.18   Towing business; contracts
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Planning and Development Department shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The city
may contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove,
store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor
vehicles in compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of
officers of the city Police and Fire Departments in enforcing other laws or in
otherwise carrying out their duties.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law
prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The police officer or Planning and Development
Department Official, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of the
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self- propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitos, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of its falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges
of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 90.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be an abandoned
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine that a
vehicle is an abandoned vehicle as defined in this chapter and order the
vehicle removed.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a motor vehicle or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health and safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
in this chapter and order the vehicle removed.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may order the removal of
a junked motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (l)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 PRETOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked
motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or
person entitled to the possession of the vehicle or the owner, lessee or
occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first-class mail. The person who mails the notice shall retain a written
record to show the name and address to which mailed and the date mailed. If
such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed
is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date which shall be
no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date no sooner than
seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed unless the vehicle is moved by
the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicle on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the City Manager in writing within 72 hours of receipt of notice and
heard as soon as possible; further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRETOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Such findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal
of vehicles without prior notice include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POSTTOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
a tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last-known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last-known address unless
this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last-known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in (A)(1)
through (A)(5) above.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.09 HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for a hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charged, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charged to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will the
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the authorizing official. The city may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, being G.S. §§ 136-
141 et seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a building enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 TOWING ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare and maintain an eligible
list of those persons, firms and corporations who apply and qualify to tow and
store vehicles at the request of the authorizing official pursuant to this
chapter. The owner or principal must either reside, own property, or maintain a
business, within the corporate limits of the city, to qualify for the eligible
list. The Chief of Police shall prepare rules in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter for the qualifications of private tow truck operators or
businesses for the eligible list.
   (B)    Any private tow truck operator or business on the eligible list that
violates any provision of this chapter or the rules established in accordance
herewith shall be subject to removal from the eligible list after written
notice. Any private tow truck operator or business removed from the eligible
list may, within five working days of the date of the notice of removal,
request a hearing before the Chief of Police to show cause why he or she should
not be removed from the list.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.17 TOWING BUSINESS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   To qualify for the eligible list, a private tow truck operator or
business must:
      (1)   Keep the towing operation either open or available by a telephone
number between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday;
      (2)   Have available at all times a factory-built wrecker consisting of a
one-ton chassis with dual rear wheels and having the necessary equipment to tow
vehicles from the streets and other public or private places in the city when
called upon to do so; and
      (3)   Have, at or in the immediate vicinity of the location of his or her
towing operation, sufficient fenced storage space and facilities to protect
both damaged and undamaged vehicles and have a facility to store a vehicle out
of exposure to the elements overnight.
   (B)   The private tow truck operator or business must also agree to assume
the obligation to:
      (1)   Promptly tow and store all vehicles to be removed from the public
streets or other public places or private property upon the request of the
authorizing official;
      (2)   Issue a receipt to the authorizing official for each vehicle towed
and stored and keep the vehicle until its release is authorized by the
authorizing official;
      (3)   Store vehicles in a secured, fenced storage space;
      (4)   Collect towing and storage fees from the owner of the vehicle by
the sale of the vehicle without recourse to the city unless it is found that no
probable cause existed for the towing pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11;
      (5)   Pay all damages to vehicles entrusted to his or her custody as the
result of his or her negligence and to maintain for the protection of the
vehicle owners the garage keeper’s legal liability insurance while performing
any of the services provided for in this chapter;
      (6)   Indemnify and save the city harmless from all liability for damages
sustained by vehicles being towed or stored and all personal injuries occurring
as a result of the towing or storage;
      (7)   Remove from the scene of a vehicle accident in which the vehicle to
be towed was involved all glass, metal or debris caused by the accident;
      (8)   Maintain a liability insurance policy covering the operation of the
business, equipment, tow truck and other vehicles for any bodily injury or
property damage. The policy must contain an endorsement by carriers providing
ten days’ notice to the city in the event of any change in coverage under the
policy; and
      (9)   Cooperate with the investigation of the criminal record and
character of the owner of the business and each tow truck operator. No such
person shall have been convicted of any felony or of a crime involving fraud,
theft or receiving or possession of stolen property within ten years.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 90.18 TOWING BUSINESS; CONTRACTS.
   A private tow truck operator or business on the eligible list shall contract
with the city to remove the vehicles described in this chapter from the public
streets or other public places or private property upon the request of the
authorizing official. The contract shall be in writing, shall specify the
charges to be made for towing and shall require the person entering into the
contract for the towing of such vehicles to perform the service in a manner
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and the rules prepared
thereunder and shall provide for the forfeiture of the contract in the event of
a violation of any of the provisions of the contract or of the provisions of
this chapter. The contract shall further provide that the city shall not be
obligated to the person undertaking the towing and storage of such vehicles for
any damages which may be incurred in the performance of the obligation assumed
by him or her but that the charge shall be collected solely from the owner of
the vehicle involved unless it is found that no probable cause existed for the
towing of any vehicle pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11.
(1997 Code, § 90.19) (Ord. passed - -1997)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Animals running at large
   
91.03   Nuisance animals
   
91.04   Confinement of female animals in heat
   
91.05   Vicious animals
   
91.06   Teasing and molesting animals
   
91.07   Cruel treatment of animals
   
91.08   Exemptions
   
91.09   Bird sanctuary established
   
91.10   Keeping swine prohibited
   
91.11   Keeping of certain animals regulated
   
91.12   Animals prohibited at festivals, parades and events
   
91.13   Dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog procedure
   
91.14   Precautions against attacks by dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.15   State violations
   
91.16   Keeping of bees
Dogs and Cats
   
91.30   Dogs must wear rabies tag and identification tag
   
91.31   Keeping stray dogs and cats
   
91.32   Prohibition against tethering of dogs
   
91.33   Acts resulting in injury or death of dogs
   
91.34   Bite investigation procedures
   
91.35   Permit for three or more dogs or cats kept outside
   
91.36   Proper care of animals
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.50   Animal Control Officer
   
91.51   Duties and responsibilities of Animal Control Officer
   
91.52   Duty to keep records
   
91.53   Interference with Animal Control Officer
   
91.54   Right of Animal Control Officer to enter for inspections and the like
   
91.55   Impounded animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Domesticated animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. City or county employee designated as Dog Warden,
Animal Control Officer, Animal Control Official or other designations that may
be used whose responsibility includes animal control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the city for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
other laws.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the
property of its owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   ATTACK BY DOG. Any assault or battery by a dog upon a person or domestic
animal, to include biting, felling or toppling, tearing of clothing, provoking
flight to escape attack, or any other act which could reasonably cause fear,
physical pain and/or injury to a person or domestic animal.
   BITE BY DOG. Any seizing, gripping or grasping by a dog with its jaws, no
matter how slight or momentary, any part of the human anatomy or that of a
domestic animal, so as to cause fear, physical injury and/or pain to such
person or animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that:
         (a) Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person; or
         (b) Is determined by the animal control officer or municipal authority
responsible for animal control to be potentially dangerous because the dog has
engaged in one or more of the behaviors listed under the definition of
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (2)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
   DAY. Twenty-four hours excluding Saturday, Sunday and holidays.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been EXPOSED TO RABIES if it has been
bitten by or been exposed to any animal known or suspected by an Animal Control
Officer to have been infected with rabies.
   EUTHANIZE. Painless death.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal.
   OWNER REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of any
animal, but does include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the Animal Control Officer or
municipal authority responsible for animal control determines to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts on the skin
or one which habitually or repeatedly attacks humans or other animals;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property;
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (4)   Is classified as a PIT BULL TERRIER as defined by the American
Kennel Club or United Kennel Club as any American Pit Bull, Staffordshire Bull
Terrier, American Staffordshire Terrier or Bull Terrier; and any mixed breed
dog containing sufficient elements of the above breeds as identified by a
veterinarian; or any dog whose owner registers, defines, admits or otherwise
identifies such dog as a PIT BULL; or any dog that is of a breed commonly
referred to as a PIT BULL and commonly recognizable as such.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal or group of animals which:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owners;
      (3)   Is dangerous or potentially dangerous;
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary conditions of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number or type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety or welfare;
      (7)   Excessively barks, howls or makes disturbing noises;
      (8)   Is diseased, has mange, is sick and is dangerous to public health;
or
      (9)   Is female, in heat and is running loose.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT if it is controlled by means of a
chain, leash or other like device; is sufficiently near the owner or handler to
be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that person’s commands;
is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is within a secure
enclosure.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY CAT. Any cat within the city wandering at large or lost and which does
not have an identifiable owner, or any cat within the city whose owner fails to
have said cat vaccinated against rabies.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog within the city wandering at large or lost and which does
not have an identifiable owner, or any dog within the city whose owner fails to
pay for and procure a dog tax tag or fails to have said dog vaccinated against
rabies.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal, other than a dog, which is addressed by the
dangerous dog ordinance, that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or attempting to bite, or by chasing or by causing damage to clothing,
abrasions or cuts to the skin by any means or which habitually or repeatedly
attacks or chases humans or other animals.
(1997 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. passed
4-13-1999; Ord. passed 6-12-2001; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any animal allowed to run at large may be seized, impounded, humanely put to
death or released to a recognized animal rescue organization after reasonable
efforts to notify the owner.
(1997 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful to own, keep or
harbor a public nuisance animal within the city; provided, however, it shall
not be unlawful to own or keep a dog of vicious tendencies for the protection
of persons or property if such dog is securely confined in a manner not to
expose it to the general public and is held in compliance with §
91.14 below.
   (B)   Complaint and notice. Upon receipt of a written detailed and signed
complaint being made to an Animal Control Officer by any resident or residents
that any person is maintaining a public nuisance as defined in §
91.01 of this chapter, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall cause
the owner of the animal or animals in question to be notified that a complaint
has been received and shall cause the situation complained of to be
investigated and a report and findings thereon to be reduced to writing by the
investigating Animal Control Officer. In addition, an Animal Control Officer
may upon independent investigation determine an animal to be a public nuisance,
at which time said officer shall prepare and submit to the Chief of Police a
written report of his or her investigation, who shall cause the owner of the
animal or animals in question to be notified of the investigation.
   (C)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigating officer
indicate that the complaints are justified, then the Chief of Police shall
cause the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to be so
notified in writing, by registered mail, return receipt requested, ordered to
abate the nuisance within seven days after notification, and issued a citation
for the violation. In the event the owner of the animal or animals is unknown
and cannot be ascertained, the notice and order, along with a general
description of the animal or animals, shall be published within a local
newspaper.
   (D)   Impoundment upon failure to abate. If any person receiving notice in
the manner herein above described shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance
upon order of the Chief of Police within the specified time, the Chief of
Police may cause the animal or animals in question to be apprehended and
impounded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Right of appeal. Within a seven-day period mentioned in division (C)
above, the owner of the alleged nuisance animal may appeal the findings of the
Chief of Police to the City Manager by giving written notice of appeal to the
City Manager. The appeal shall stay the abatement of the nuisance until a final
determination is made by the City Manager. The City Manager shall schedule a
hearing and make a final determination within ten days of receipt of the notice
of appeal.
   (F)   Redemption; destruction. If the owner shall so request, the animal or
animals may be redeemed upon the condition that the owner execute a written
agreement to comply with the abatement order, and upon such other conditions as
may be required by the County Animal Shelter. If no redemption and execution is
made by the owner within such time as may be required by the County Animal
Shelter, then the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with such
regulations as may be set forth by the County Animal Shelter.
(1997 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2006-
24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   A female animal running at large while in heat is a public nuisance and must
be sufficiently enclosed to prevent indiscriminate breeding.
(1997 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.05 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal, other than a dog, within the city unless it is confined on the owner’s
property by means of a secure enclosure, or unless it is under restraint by a
competent person by means of a leash and muzzle, and has such animal firmly
under control at all times.
(1997 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. passed
6-12-2001; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 TEASING AND MOLESTING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait or in any way
bother any animal not belonging to him or her or legally under his or her
control.
(1997 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CRUEL TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment, deprive of
necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure,
poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general
welfare of any animal or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE,
TORMENT or CRUELTY shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect
whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted;
however, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the Animal
Control Officer or veterinarians from destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured
animals in a humane manner.
(1997 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter except for §§
91.07 and
91.31.
(1997 Code, § 91.08) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.09 BIRD SANCTUARY ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be illegal to kill any birds within the corporate limits of the
city.
(1997 Code, § 91.09) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 KEEPING SWINE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep any swine within the city limits or within 100 yards
outside the city limits.
(1997 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, house or allow upon
his or her premises, whether such premises is owned outright by such person or
leased from another, within the corporate limits, cows, horses, mules, chickens
or other non-domesticated animals, unless activity was in operation or existing
prior to 1975.
(1997 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006; Ord.
2014-06, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 ANIMALS PROHIBITED AT FESTIVALS, PARADES AND EVENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The Christmas Parade, Band Festival, Festival in the
Park, Summer Concert Series, sporting, recreational and cultural events held on
or in city facilities, and city permitted demonstrations attract large numbers
of spectators congested into a limited area for festivals and events that are
of greater duration than other community events. The presence of animals at
those parades, festivals and events poses some concern for the safety of both
spectators and for the animals. In addition to the above-mentioned parades,
festivals and demonstrations, sponsors of other events may request the City
Manager or his or her authorized designee in writing to apply the provisions of
this section to said events. The City Manager or his or her designee is
authorized to approve such requests if he or she or his or her designee
determines that the number of spectators, the size of the area, or that public
safety or health would warrant the application of the provisions of this
section.
   (B) Unlawful to have animal at parades, festivals and demonstrations on
public property or rights-of-way, summer concert series and all sporting,
recreational and cultural events held on or in city facilities. It shall be
unlawful for any person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control
of any animal as defined in §
91.01 to take that animal, whether on a leash or not on a leash, onto public
property or public rights-of-way or allow any animal to enter the boundaries or
interior of any event identified in division (A) above. The boundaries and the
interior consist of any area that is part of any above named event and shall
include any public street, sidewalk, right-of-way or other publicly owned area.
   (C)   Failure to remove animal. It shall be unlawful for any person with an
animal within the boundaries of these events identified in division (A) above
to fail to obey the command of a law enforcement officer, Animal Control
Officer or other authorized city official to remove such animal from the event
when directed to do so.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not apply to those animals that are part
of the event or an authorized exhibit. The City Manager or his or her designee
shall have the authority to specify the conditions for having such
participating animals for the protection of the public or the well-being of the
animals. This section shall not apply to assistance animals pursuant to G.S. §
168-4.2.
(1997 Code, § 91.12) (Ord. passed 1-26-1999; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 DANGEROUS DOG OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally. The determination whether or not such dog is dangerous or
potentially dangerous, as herein defined, shall be made by the Chief of Police
or such alternate hearing official as the Chief of Police may from time to time
designate.
   (B)   Investigation and preliminary findings. Upon receipt of a report or
complaint that some person owns, keeps or harbors a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog, as defined herein, or upon independent investigation of an
Animal Control Officer, the Chief of Police shall make or cause to make an
investigation and on the results of such investigation make a written
determination stating that the suspect dog is or is not a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog. If it is determined by the Chief of Police that the
suspect dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous, as defined herein, the owner
shall be notified in writing by personal service upon the owner by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee, or if personal service is not obtained within a
reasonable time, by certified mail, return receipt requested, and the written
determination shall order compliance with the appropriate provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Appeals. The owner, keeper or harborer of a dog determined hereby to
be dangerous or potentially dangerous or any person bitten or attacked by a dog
determined hereby not to be dangerous or the owner of a domestic animal injured
by such dog may appeal such determination by providing written notice of appeal
to the Chief of Police within three days of the determination. Such appeal
shall be calendared for hearing by City Council at their next regular meeting
or to be heard by such appeals board as the City Council may, by resolution,
appoint to hear such appeals. The rulings by the City Council, or duly
appointed appeals board, shall be final, subject only to the right of appeal
for a hearing de novo taken to the County Superior Court, to be filed with the
County Clerk of Superior Court within ten days of the date of the final
determination by the City Council or Appeals Board.
   (D)   Registration required. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog
knowing it to be dangerous or potentially dangerous shall register such dog
with the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, within five days of such
determination or upon locating such dog within the city. Any owner, keeper or
harborer of a dog suspected of being dangerous or potentially dangerous may
voluntarily register such dog which shall be an admission that the dog is
dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (E)   Permanent identification required. Each dog determined to be dangerous
or potentially dangerous as provided herein shall be assigned by the Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, a permanent registration number, which shall be
affixed to the dog by permanent identification tag or some other means by or at
the expense of the owner of the dog. It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove or tamper with such identification tag once assigned and affixed.
   (F)   Exclusions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer’s official duties;
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was sustained
by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog, herding dog or
predator control dog on the property of or under the control of its owner or
keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of domestic animal
appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person, who at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
(1997 Code, § 91.13) (Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 PRECAUTIONS AGAINST ATTACKS BY DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog as defined in §
91.01 and designated pursuant to this chapter to:
      (1)   Leave a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog unattended on the
owner’s real property unless the dog is confined indoors or in a secure
enclosure which is locked. A SECURE ENCLOSURE means an enclosure that meets all
of the following criteria:
         (a)   A structure which is suitable to prevent the entry of young
children and to prevent the dog from escaping;
         (b)   A structure with secure sides and a secure top, or secure sides
which are of sufficient height to prevent the dog from escaping over the sides;
         (c)   A structure whose sides are constructed at the bottom so as to
prevent the dog’s escape by digging under the sides; and
         (d)   A structure which provides appropriate protection for the dog
from the elements.
      (2)   Permit a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog to go beyond its
owner’s real property unless the dog is leashed and muzzled or is otherwise
securely restrained and muzzled.
   (B)   If the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog transfers
ownership or possession of the dog to another owner, the transferring owner
shall provide written notice to:
      (1)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, stating the name and
address of the new owner or possessor of the dog; and
      (2)   The person taking ownership or possession of the dog, specifying
the dog’s dangerous behavior and the authority’s determination of dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog.
   (C)   Any owner of a duly declared dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
shall erect a sign (two feet by two feet) which shall be clearly visible from
the public right-of-way on the enclosure housing said dog which shall read:
BEWARE!
DANGEROUS DOG
   (D)   The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog is required to
maintain in full force and effect a liability insurance policy of $100,000 for
personal injury or death of any person resulting from an attack by such
dangerous dog or potentially dangerous dog.
   (E)   If the owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog does not own
the property where the dog is being kept, then the owner of the dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must have written permission from the property owner
where the dog is to be kept before such dog may be kept on the property owner’s
premises. This specifically includes, but is not limited to, dogs kept on the
property of friends or relatives, and dogs kept on rental property.
(1997 Code, § 91.14) (Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 STATE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the pursuit by
an Animal Control Officer, city official or any other person of remedies under
the provisions of G.S. Ch. 67 for violations of that statute or to prevent
actions for civil damages.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is designated as the person responsible for making
the determination required by G.S. § 67-4.1(c).
   (C)   The City Council is designated as the appellate board to hear appeals
of determinations made pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1(c).
(1997 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.16 KEEPING OF BEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or operate any bee
containment systems, honey-producing hives, or any such bee related production
within the city limits, except under the following conditions.
   (A)   The maximum number of hives allowed shall be determined based on lot
size as follows:
 
Lot Area (square feet) Maximum Number of Hives Allowed
Less than 50,000       5
50,001-60,000          6
60,001-70,000          7
70,001 or larger       9
 
   (B)   No hive shall be located in a front yard and no hive shall be closer
than 15 feet from any property lines.
   (C)   The area wherein the hive(s) shall be located shall be screened from
view by either an opaque fence of not less than four feet in height, and/or an
equivalent screening of vegetation. In no case shall a hive be visible from a
public street or highway.
   (D)   Each hive must have an adequate water supply at the hive. The water
supply must be unobstructed to allow for easy access to bees.
   (E)   All beekeeping equipment and hives must be maintained in good order
and condition.
   (F)   The hive(s) shall be placed at ground level or securely attached to an
anchor or stand.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 5-17-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.30 DOGS MUST WEAR RABIES TAG AND IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to comply with the
state laws relating to the control of rabies, and it shall be unlawful for any
dog owner to fail to provide any dog he or she owns with a suitable collar or
harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to be issued upon compliance with the
state law, and to take such action as necessary to see that said tag is worn by
said dog at all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter. It is the
purpose of this chapter to supplement the state law by providing a procedure
for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies control.
   (B)   All dogs must wear an identification tag with at least the following
information: name, address and telephone number of the dog owner.
(1997 Code, § 91.20) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 KEEPING STRAY DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city knowingly and intentionally
to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement or otherwise, any dog or cat
which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24 hours from
the time such dog or cat came into his or her possession notified the Animal
Control Officer. Upon receiving such notice, the Animal Control Officer shall
take such dog or cat and place it in the animal shelter and shall deal with it
as provided in §
91.34. It is unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any such stray dog
or cat to an authorized city representative upon demand of such representative.
(1997 Code, § 91.21) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 PROHIBITION AGAINST TETHERING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to tether an unattended dog outside of the house.
   (B)   When on the property of the dog owner, dogs may run loose when
attended by a responsible person who can control the dog either by voice
commands or by a leash.
   (C)   When on the property of the dog owner, dogs may run unattended if kept
in a secure area, including a fenced-in area or within an area surrounded by an
electronic fence, or when kept in any other structure of sufficient strength
and height to prevent the dog from escaping.
(1997 Code, § 91.22) (Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 ACTS RESULTING IN INJURY OR DEATH OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or kill an animal by running
over or coming into contact with same, with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle
or other vehicle and to fail to notify immediately the owner of said animal,
the Animal Control Officer or the City Police Department.
(1997 Code, § 91.23) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 BITE INVESTIGATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The policy regarding the confinement of a biting dog or cat varies as
stated in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) below.
      (1)   A vaccinated dog or cat belonging to an owner shall be inspected by
a Rabies Control Officer (the city’s Animal Control Officer is also the city’s
Rabies Control Officer). It shall be confined either at the animal shelter,
veterinary hospital or in an adequate place of confinement acceptable to the
Rabies Control Officer. The dog or cat shall be confined for a ten-day period.
The Rabies Control Officer shall inspect the dog or cat two or three times
within the period, or more often if needed. If the dog is normal after the ten-
day period, it may be released to the owner at the owner’s expense of not less
than $5 per day.
      (2)   An unvaccinated dog or cat belonging to an owner shall immediately
be placed in solitary confinement either at the animal shelter, veterinary
hospital or in an adequate place of confinement acceptable to the Rabies
Control Officer. The dog shall be confined for a ten-day period. The dog or cat
shall not be vaccinated until after the tenth day of the confinement period. An
animal suspected of having rabies may be seized and ordered confined for a ten-
day period.
      (3)   A stray dog or cat that has bitten someone shall immediately be
placed in solitary confinement at the animal shelter.
         (a)   The dog or cat shall be confined for a ten-day period for close
observation.
         (b)   Every effort should be made to locate the owner of the dog or
cat to see if the dog or cat has been properly immunized.
         (c)   Keep careful observation of the dog or cat.
            1.   If the animal appears to be normal after ten days, the animal
shall be disposed of in a humane manner or released to the County Humane
Society.
            2.   If in any dog or cat bite case, the dog or cat appears to be
sick or in any way abnormal, a veterinarian shall make an examination of the
animal. The expense of the examination and boarding shall be paid by the owner
of the animal. In case a dog or cat which has bitten someone dies or has to be
killed, the head shall be carried to the Virology Branch, Division of Health
Services in Raleigh immediately for rabies diagnosis. All parties involved
shall be notified of the results of the examination. If the animal head is
carried to the State Laboratory, a standard history sheet is to be completed
and sent with the head to Raleigh.
   (B)   A record of all reported dog and cat bites shall be kept by the Animal
Control Officer.
(1997 Code, § 91.24) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.35 PERMIT FOR THREE OR MORE DOGS OR CATS KEPT OUTSIDE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, to keep custody of, or to
take care of three or more dogs or cats or any combination of three dogs and
cats or more, four months or older, which are frequently outside on the
premises, unless the person has a special permit issued by the Animal Control
Officer.
   (B)   If a person has three or more dogs and/or cats frequently outside on
the premises, the Animal Control Officer or his or her designee must make the
following five findings in order to issue a special permit.
      (1)   Noise from the dogs or cats will not interfere with an abutting
occupant’s peaceful enjoyment of the abutting property.
      (2)   Any odor or unsanitary conditions caused by the dogs or cats will
not interfere with an abutting occupant’s use and peaceful enjoyment of the
abutting property.
      (3)   Three or more dog runs or other dog-related structures or any
combination thereof shall not be permitted if the structures can be seen from
an abutting occupant’s property in a residentially zoned district.
      (4)   There is no evidence that the dogs and/or cats pose any health
problem or disease exposure for the abutting occupants.
      (5)   The dogs and/or cats do not interfere in some other similar manner
with the peaceful use and enjoyment of abutting property.
(1997 Code, § 91.25) (Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 PROPER CARE OF ANIMALS.
   All pets must be provided with:
   (A)   Proper shelter and protection from the weather;
   (B)    Minimum pen size of 36 square feet per animal with a minimum height
of six feet;
   (C)   Sufficient and wholesome food and water to keep them in good health
and comfort;
   (D)   The opportunity for vigorous daily exercise;
   (E)   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and provide humane
care and treatment; and
   (F)   Rabies vaccination.
(1997 Code, § 91.26) (Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.50 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall be appointed by the Chief of Police with
the approval of the City Manager and shall be supervised by the Chief of
Police.
(1997 Code, § 91.35) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.51 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Animal Control Officer shall be charged with the responsibility of:
   (A)   Enforcing in the city all state and city policies, ordinances and
resolutions relating to dogs, cats and other animals;
   (B)   Cooperating with the County Health Director and assisting in the
enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals and especially with
regard to vaccination of dogs and cats against rabies and the confinement or
leashing of vicious animals (without limiting the foregoing, reference is
particularly made to the state laws as set out and contained in G.S. Articles 1
and 2 of Ch. 67; §§ 153A-153 and 130A-184 to 130A-200);
   (C)   Investigating cruelty or abuse with regard to dogs, cats and other
animals;
   (D)   Making such canvasses of the city as it deems necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining that all dogs are duly and properly listed for tax
purposes and that all dogs and cats are vaccinated against rabies; and
   (E)   Such other and further duties as duly designated by the Chief of
Police, City Manager or City Council.
(1997 Code, § 91.36) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed 4-13-1999; Ord. 2006-
24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.52 DUTY TO KEEP RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep, or cause to be
kept, accurate and detailed records of:
   (A)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the animal
shelter;
   (B)   Bite cases, violations and complaint investigations; and
   (C)   All other records deemed necessary by the city.
(1997 Code, § 91.38) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.53 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
molest the Animal Control Officer or his or her agent in the performance of any
duty authorized by this chapter or seek to release any animal in the custody of
said agents except as herein provided.
   (B)   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or
ordinance, no officer, agent or employee of the city charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law shall be
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of such duties unless
said person acted with actual malice.
(1997 Code, § 91.39) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.54 RIGHT OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER TO ENTER FOR INSPECTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or other applicable
law, or whenever the Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized
representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or on any premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
other applicable law, the Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized
representative is hereby empowered to enter such property at any reasonable
time to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the Animal Control
Officer or his or her representative by this chapter or other applicable law,
but only if the consent of the occupant or owner of the property is freely
given or a search or inspection warrant is obtained as hereinafter provided:
      (1)   If such property be occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining his or her reason
therefor;
      (2)   If such property be unoccupied, he or she shall first make
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the property, present proper credentials and request entry, explaining his
or her reasons therefor; and
      (3)   If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the Animal Control Officer or his or her authorized representative
shall obtain a warrant to conduct a search or inspection of the property.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Animal
Control Officer or his or her authorized representative shall have the
authority to enter upon any property to enforce the provisions of this chapter
or other applicable law if a violation of such law is being committed in the
presence of such officer. COMMITTED IN THE PRESENCE OF SUCH OFFICER shall not
be construed to refer to any alleged violation of this chapter or other
applicable law which is committed within any building or other enclosed
structure unless such officer is also lawfully within such building or enclosed
structure.
(1997 Code, § 91.40) (Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.55 IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Impounding animals. Any animal which appears to be lost, strayed,
unwanted or is running at large in violation of §
91.02 of this chapter, shall be confined in the animal shelter in a humane
manner for redemption by the owner, adopted as a pet, euthanized or released to
a recognized animal rescue organization.
   (B)   Notifying owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal
Control Officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner, and inform
such owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (C)   Unwanted, diseased or injured animals. If an animal is officially
surrendered by the owner to the Animal Control Officer to be placed in a home
or euthanized in a humane manner, it may be disposed of without waiting three
days.
   (D)   Other diseased or injured animals. Any impounded animal which is badly
wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no identification shall be
destroyed immediately in a humane manner or released to a recognized animal
rescue organization. If the animal has identification, the Animal Control
Officer shall attempt to notify the owner before disposing of such animal; but
if the owner cannot be reached readily, and the animal is suffering, the Animal
Control Officer may euthanize the animal at his or her discretion in a humane
manner or release the animal to a recognized animal rescue organization.
(1997 Code, § 91.41) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of penalties for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   Violations: $150:
         (a)   Animals running at large: §
91.02;
         (b)   Nuisance animals: §
91.03;
         (c)   Confinement of female animals in heat: §
91.04;
         (d)   Teasing and molesting animals: §
91.06;
         (e)   Dogs must wear rabies and identification tag: §
91.30;
         (f)   Keeping stray dogs and cats: §
91.31; and
         (g)   Acts resulting in injury or death of dogs: §
91.33.
      (2)   Violations: $500:
         (a)   Vicious animals: §
91.05;
         (b)   Cruel treatment of animals: §
91.07;
         (c)   Animals prohibited at festivals, parades and events: §
91.12;
         (d)   Precautions against attacks by dangerous or potentially
dangerous dogs: §
91.14;
         (e)   Interference with Animal Control Officer: §
91.53;
         (f)   Prohibition against tethering of dogs: §
91.32;
         (g)   Permit for three or more dogs/cats kept outside: §
91.35; and
         (h)   Improper care of animals: §
91.36.
(1997 Code, § 91.12)
(Ord. passed 1-26-1999; Ord. 2000-24, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 2006-24, passed 6-
13-2006; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
Cemetery Lots and Graves
   
92.01   Lots and lot owners
   
92.02   Care and improvements
   
92.03   Monuments and monumental work
   
92.04   Grave markers
   
92.05   Crypts and mausoleums
   
92.06   Terms and payment
   
92.07   Sale of right or easement in cemetery lots or lands for purpose of
burial
Burials
   
92.20   Funerals and interments
   
92.21   Disinterments and removals
   
92.22   Burials made in wrong lot or grave
Rules and Regulations
   
92.35   Hours of operation
   
92.36   Visitors to keep in walks and drives
   
92.37   Responsibility for children
   
92.38   Unnecessary noise or improper conduct
   
92.39   Picking or removing plants; injuring ornamentals or property
   
92.40   Removal of funeral and floral designs and pieces
   
92.41   Speed limits within grounds
   
92.42   Certain vehicles prohibited
   
92.43   Fishing prohibited
   
92.44   Advertising or soliciting prohibited
CEMETERY LOTS AND GRAVES
§ 92.01 LOTS AND LOT OWNERS.
   (A)   Lots sold shall be duly recorded and platted in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the county and a copy on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The grade of all lots shall be established by the city and no change
will be permitted.
   (C)   The lots are permanently marked, without expense to the purchaser,
with corner and number markers, defining the lots to correspond with the plat.
   (D)   A lot may be held in joint ownership, but in such case where one co-
owner is a nonresident, the lot shall be sold according to nonresident price.
   (E)   No person will be recognized as owner or part owner of a lot unless
his or her name appears on the records on file in the City Clerk’s office.
   (F)   Each lot owner shall immediately notify the City Clerk of any change
of residential address.
   (G)   Lots in the cemetery are generally divided into five classes:
      (1)   Single grave lots, approximately five by ten feet;
      (2)   Two grave lots, approximately ten by ten feet, no headstone
permitted;
      (3)   Two grave lots, approximately ten by 12 feet, headstone permitted;
      (4)   Four grave lots, approximately ten by 20 feet; and
      (5)   Eight grave lots, approximately 20 by 20 feet. Eight grave lots may
be divided in half and so sold by the city, and each of the halves shall be
designated by the letter A/B after the number of the lot.
   (H)   Nonresidents of the city may purchase lots in Cedarwood Cemetery
according to the price schedule set by the City Council.
   (I)   A person has the option to purchase one, two, three or four lots. No
sale shall be made for more than four grave lots to any family household
without approval of City Council.
   (J)   When the owner of a grave lot desires to assign or transfer to another
person the space owned by him or her, he or she shall obtain the signatures of
the City Clerk and City Manager to the deed of transfer to the new owner.
Transfer from city to non-city residents shall require payment to the city of
equal to the difference in current city and non-city rates.
(1997 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2008-18,
passed 11-25-2008)
§ 92.02 MAINTENANCE AND CARE OF LOTS AND CEMETERY.
   (A)   All work in the care and improvement of lots shall be done by
employees of the cemetery.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to plant trees and shrubs in accordance
with the general plan for landscape work, on any part of the city cemetery that
is desirable.
   (C)   No lot or grave shall be defined by fence, railing, coping or hedge.
   (D)   Boxes, shells, toys, wire screens, arbors, trellises, chairs, benches
and objects of similar nature of any kind whatsoever will not be permitted on
any lot or grave.
   (E)   No lot or grave shall be planted or seeded except by cemetery
personnel.
   (F)   No person shall trim, prune or remove any part of the trees or shrubs
in the cemetery, whether on his or her lot or not.
   (G)   Should any tree or shrub become objectionable for any reason
whatsoever, the city reserves the right to remove such tree or shrub at its
discretion.
   (H)   The city shall not be responsible for the loss, damage or destruction
of any article left on the lots.
   (I)   Cut flowers, potted plants, memorial wreaths, sprays, baskets and
vases may be placed on graves at any time, but must be placed at the headstone.
   (J)   The Supervisor shall have authority to remove floral designs, flowers,
plants and containers from the lots when, in his or her judgment, they become
faded and unsightly and distract from the general appearance.
   (K)   No florist, funeral home or person other than members of families of
persons buried on the lot shall remove any flowers, floral designs, plants or
containers from any lot without first notifying the caretaker.
(1997 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 MONUMENTS AND MONUMENTAL WORK.
   (A)   A monument (die) shall be defined as any stone mounted on a base
except a crypt or mausoleum. The die shall meet one of the three following
standard sizes: 36 inches wide by (eight to ten inches thick) by 24 inches high
(minimum size), 42 inches wide by (eight to ten inches thick) by 28 inches
high, and 48 inches width by (eight to ten inches thick) by 30 inches height
(maximum size). Because stone measurements are often not precise, a tolerance
not to exceed 10% is permitted in height and thickness and 25% in width. The
overall height of the complete memorial structure including the base piece or
pieces shall not exceed a maximum height of 38 inches above ground elevation
measured at the highest point of the memorial structure. The design of the
monument shall be left up to the lot owner so long as the inscription is not
objectionable and the monument conforms to the sizes mentioned above. The
monument base shall under no circumstances exceed a width of six feet nor be of
such thickness to project the highest point of the monument 38 inches above
ground level.
   (B)   Only one monument shall be erected on a lot and must be of proper
materials and workmanship. The monument shall be placed in the exact center of
the lot, facing the walk in front of the lot, except where irregular shape of a
lot makes this impossible and then only in a space designated by the Cemetery
Supervisor.
   (C)   No material except Standard Granite, Georgia Marble, Vermont Marble or
Standard Bronze shall be used for any monument or marker.
   (D)   All monuments and above ground burial vaults shall be set upon
foundations built of concrete or solid masonry of sufficient size and depth for
the superstructure.
   (E)   All monument foundations shall be constructed by Cedarwood Cemetery
personnel.
   (F)   All above ground burial vault foundations shall be constructed by the
owner’s contractors under the supervision of and the specifications of the
Cemetery Supervisor.
   (G)   The setting of all stone and bronze work shall be inspected by the
Cemetery Supervisor and the work shall be performed only during cemetery
business hours of 7:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding
holidays, and the work shall be scheduled for completion by 4:00 p.m. The
Cemetery Supervisor must be notified of times and dates the work is to be
performed, so as to allow cemetery personnel to schedule their inspections.
   (H)   No monument, marker or above ground burial vault in Cedarwood Cemetery
shall be placed or removed without the permission of the city. The city shall
not be held liable for default of contract agreement between lot owner and
memorial contractor.
   (I)   The city is not responsible for damage to monuments caused by
accidents or vandalism.
(1997 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 GRAVE MARKERS.
   (A)   The term GRAVE MARKERS/FOOT MARKERS shall mean a stone intended to
indicate the location of a particular grave.
   (B)   No monument will be permitted on a single grave lot.
   (C)   Each single grave marker shall consist of one piece only, and shall be
24 inches in length, 12 inches in width and four inches in thickness.
   (D)   Each double grave marker shall not exceed a maximum of 60 inches by 16
inches by four inches.
   (E)   Only one grave foot marker shall be placed at a grave, except those
covered under §
92.20(G), and must be set as to not extend above the surface of the surrounding
ground.
   (F)   Each bronze or other metallic grave marker/foot marker shall rest upon
a concrete foundation at least four inches in depth, and said foundation shall
not exceed the full length and width of the marker unless otherwise specified
by Cemetery Supervisor.
   (G)   All foundations must have the surface next to the grave marker/foot
marker true and level to allow full bearing on the foundation.
(1997 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed 2-23-1999) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.05 CRYPTS AND MAUSOLEUMS.
   (A)   A crypt or mausoleum shall be defined as an above ground burial vault.
The overall height of the above ground burial vault shall not exceed a maximum
of 50 inches from ground level measured at the center of the structure. The
uppermost part of a burial vault shall be a minimum of 18 inches below the
ground surface.
   (B)   A family monument shall not be allowed in conjunction with above
ground burial vaults on the same lot.
   (C)   Crypts, mausoleums or above ground burial vaults shall not be allowed
to be installed in any parts of Section E, F or J of Cedarwood Cemetery, and
only single or double crypts side by side will be allowed in Section G.
   (D)   All plans including dimensional requirements shall be submitted to the
Cemetery Supervisor for his or her review and approval prior to construction.
   (E)   Walk-in mausoleums are not permitted in Cedarwood Cemetery.
   (F)   In ground interments shall not be allowed in Section G.
   (G)   All above ground burial vault foundations shall be constructed by the
owner’s contractors under the supervision of and the specifications of the
Cemetery Supervisor.
   (H)   One 12-foot by 12-foot crypt site may accommodate up to two vaults.
Two vault crypts must be centered on the site. If two separate crypts are used,
the foundations must join for their entire length. No foundation shall be
closer than one foot from any property line.
(1997 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed 9-21-1989; Ord. passed
11-12-1991; Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2008-18, passed 11-25-2008)
§ 92.06 TERMS AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Terms.
      (1)   Lots in the cemetery may be sold for cash or upon terms of 25% of
the purchase price to be paid in cash, and the balance shall be paid in 12
equal monthly payments until the entire balance has been paid, together with
interest thereon from date at the rate of 6% per annum, payable quarterly. In
the event the owner should allow the account to become delinquent, then the
entire amount shall become due and payable immediately. In the event the terms
of this contract are broken, the city shall notify the purchaser in writing and
if full payment is not rendered within 30 days all payments paid thus far will
be forfeited and the city shall have the right to resell such plots. In the
event of an interment and the account becomes delinquent, the city shall notify
the owner in writing, and if full payment is not rendered within 30 days, the
city shall have the right to sell any remaining graves in this plot as single
grave plots and no markers shall be erected or the city may remove any body to
another part of the cemetery and the entire plot may be resold without any
liability to the city whatsoever.
      (2)   In the event an easement of the aforesaid lots is sold upon terms
and the purchaser defaults in the payment of the purchase price according to
the terms of sale, the city may, at its option, cancel the aforesaid contract
and remove any buried body or bodies from the cemetery, and the city may remove
any monument, marker or stone on the lot at the time of such default. In the
event the contract is canceled by reason of the purchaser defaulting in the
payment of the purchase price, all sums of money collected by the city shall be
retained by the city. The city reserves the right, in case of such default and
removal of any body or bodies as aforesaid, to resell such lot.
   (B)   Use of money.
      (1)   All monies received by the city for the sale of grave plot or plots
shall be placed in the General Fund to be used first for the proper maintenance
and care of the cemetery and for whatever reason the City Council shall deem
necessary.
      (2)   In the event of a tax levy specifically for the use in the
cemetery, this money shall be placed in the debt service fund and used for no
other purpose as set forth in the General Statutes of North Carolina.
   (C)   Deeds on file. The City Clerk shall keep a duplicate copy of all
cemetery deeds on file at the office of the Clerk for the city.
   (D)   Clerk to file with county. The Clerk shall be required to file all
deeds with the County Register of Deeds before delivering the deeds to the
purchasers and collect the recording fees from the purchasers.
   (E)   Maintenance. General maintenance of cemetery lots sold by the city
shall consist of cutting the grass when necessary, filling in graves when
sunken, resodding and otherwise beautifying and keeping the lots neat, clean
and in good order.
(1997 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 92.07 SALE OF RIGHT OR EASEMENT IN CEMETERY LOTS OR LANDS FOR PURPOSE OF
BURIAL.
   The city may sell a right or easement in the cemetery lots or lands for the
purpose of burial of persons therein and for no other purpose, subject to the
rules and regulations herein adopted or that may hereafter be adopted by the
City Council upon the terms as prescribed by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
BURIALS
§ 92.20 FUNERALS AND INTERMENTS.
   (A)   Funerals, while within Cedarwood Cemetery, will be under the control
of the Cemetery Supervisor or one of his or her assistants.
   (B)   If an owner requests additional burial place on any lot and space is
available, the current fees for a single grave site shall be charged at the
time of opening.
   (C)   All graves shall be dug and interments made in the manner prescribed
by the city. The depth of each grave shall be not less than four feet. Remains
are to be enclosed in a vault or in an urn. No internment shall be permitted
except when the remains are encased in a vault or in an urn. No wooden liners
or wooden vaults will be permitted. An urn vault is required only with any urn
made of wood or other biodegradable material. Any vault or urn used must be
approved by the Cemetery Supervisor or Public Works Director, and must meet
industry standards of acceptability.
   (D)   No interment will be permitted without proper death certificate or
burial permit as required by the health authorities.
   (E)   The city may require of any person not the lot owner authority
satisfactory to it before permitting the opening of a grave or an interment,
but the city shall not be liable for the opening of a grave or an interment
which it permits, relying in good faith upon the application of any member of
the lot owner’s family or other person apparently acting upon the proper
authority.
   (F)   The city shall be notified promptly of the hour fixed for interments,
and if necessary, on account of previous conflicting arrangements, the city may
require the hour to be changed.
   (G)   Not more than one body shall be interred in one grave, except a parent
and an infant child, an adult and one cremation, two children buried at the
same time in one casket, or two cremations in one grave. If the burial of
cremated remains is to be on an occupied grave site, then the standard fee for
a single grave site shall be charged.
   (H)   All graves when thoroughly settled will be sodded or seeded without
charge to the lot owner and shall be level with the surrounding lawn.
   (I)   Funeral home directors shall be responsible for settlement of graves
for a period of 30 days.
   (J)   Scattering of ashes across the grave site is prohibited.
   (K)   All cremations shall be placed in a city approved container, and the
uppermost part of the burial container shall have a minimum of 18 inches of
cover.
(1997 Code, § 92.15) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989; Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. passed
2-23-1999; Ord. passed 2-23-1999; Ord. passed 9-11-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 DISINTERMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   All disinterments shall be performed according to cemetery supervision
at the expense of the lot owner and only upon written consent of the lot owner,
the city and the nearest living relative or relatives of the person or persons
whose remains are to be disinterred.
   (B)   Remains removed from other cemeteries must be accompanied by the
proper papers as required by law.
   (C)   In the case of disinterment for the removal of the remains from the
cemetery, no allowance will be made on the grave vacated and the regular charge
shall be made for the disinterment.
(1997 Code, § 92.16) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 92.22 BURIALS MADE IN WRONG LOT OR GRAVE.
   If, by mistake, a burial is made on the wrong lot or grave, a removal may be
made to the proper lot or grave without expense to the parties interested and
without claim for damage of any kind.
(1997 Code, § 92.17) (Ord. passed 6-30-1975)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.35 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Cemetery grounds shall be open at 7:00 a.m. and closed at sunset.
(1997 Code, § 92.30) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989)
§ 92.36 VISITORS TO KEEP IN WALKS AND DRIVES.
   Visitors must keep on the walks and drives and must not cross over or
otherwise trespass on any lot other than their own.
(1997 Code, § 92.31) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.37 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHILDREN.
   No children will be admitted to the cemetery unless attended by an adult who
will be responsible for their conduct. They will not be allowed to run over the
graves or lots.
(1997 Code, § 92.32) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.38 UNNECESSARY NOISE OR IMPROPER CONDUCT.
   Any person disturbing the quiet and good order of the cemetery by
unnecessary noise of any kind or by any other improper conduct may be ejected
from grounds.
(1997 Code, § 92.33) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.39 PICKING OR REMOVING PLANTS; INJURING ORNAMENTALS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Picking flowers, breaking shrubs, trees and plants or in any way
injuring any monument, marker, vault or ornament, or any other structure or
property within the grounds is strictly prohibited, and will, under state law,
subject the offender to a severe penalty.
   (B)   The city is not responsible for flower arrangements that are lost,
damaged or stolen.
(1997 Code, § 92.34) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.40 REMOVAL OF FUNERAL AND FLORAL DESIGNS AND PIECES.
   (A)   Funeral designs, floral pieces and cut flowers will be removed as soon
as they become unsightly.
   (B)   All Christmas floral arrangements must be removed by February 1. All
Easter arrangements must be removed by May 1.
(1997 Code, § 92.35) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.41 SPEED LIMITS WITHIN GROUNDS.
   Vehicles must not exceed a speed limit of ten mph within the grounds.
(1997 Code, § 92.36) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.42 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No motorcycles, go-carts or driver education cars shall be allowed in the
cemetery.
(1997 Code, § 92.37) (Ord. passed 6-30-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.43 FISHING PROHIBITED.
   Fishing is not to be allowed in the lake.
(1997 Code, § 92.38) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.44 ADVERTISING OR SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   Advertising or the soliciting of contracts or orders for monuments, markers
or other work will not be allowed in the cemetery.
(1997 Code, § 92.39) (Ord. passed 3-14-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   When state of emergency deemed to exist
   
93.02   General authority of Mayor during state of emergency
Proclamation
   
93.15   Issuance by Mayor
   
93.16   Extension, alteration or repeal of proclamation
   
93.17   Amendments; separate and superseding proclamations
Restrictions During Emergency
   
93.30   Curfew
   
93.31   Possession, consumption or transfer of intoxicating liquor
   
93.32   Possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous weapons and
substances
   
93.33   Limited access to certain areas
   
93.34   Removal of restrictions
Storage of Firearms and the like During Emergency
   
93.45   Rules on storage and display
   
93.46   Authority of City Council to promulgate storage regulations
Dispersal of Assemblies During an Emergency
   
93.60   Proclamation imposing restrictions on assemblies
   
93.61   Order to disperse
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 WHEN STATE OF EMERGENCY DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, civil disturbance or
similar public emergency, for any reason municipal public safety authorities
are unable to maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives,
safety, health, welfare or property.
(1997 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 GENERAL AUTHORITY OF MAYOR DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   (1)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the city
or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the city, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
      (2)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the
city and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any
part of such restrictions law enforcement officers, firemen and other public
employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the city.
      (3)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all
or any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant and
when directed to do so by the City Council.
      (4)   The City Council shall be called into session within 24 hours after
a state of emergency has been proclaimed by the Mayor.
   (B)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive, inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or other families or some member thereof; and/or
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
(1997 Code, § 93.02)
PROCLAMATION
§ 93.15 ISSUANCE BY MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in §§
93.30 through
93.34 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she
finds are necessary because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of
public order and services, and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor
shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing.
      (1)   The Mayor shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms
of the proclamation to those affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the
City Hall.
      (2)   The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon
request certified copies of it for use as evidence.
(1997 Code, § 93.15)
§ 93.16 EXTENSION, ALTERATION OR REPEAL OF PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (B)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 93.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 AMENDMENTS; SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor may amend the proclamation from time to time, making such
modifications as he or she would have been authorized to include in the
original proclamation.
   (B)   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions
authorized by this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any
proclamation by means of a superseding proclamation.
(1997 Code, § 93.17)
RESTRICTIONS DURING EMERGENCY
§ 93.30 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(1997 Code, § 93.30)
§ 93.31 POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
intoxicating liquor, including beer and wine, other than on one’s own premises,
and may prohibit the transfer of any intoxicating liquor. The prohibition, if
imposed, shall apply to transfers of intoxicating liquor by employees of
Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by anyone else within the city.
   (B)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the city.
(1997 Code, § 93.31)
§ 93.32 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND
SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession of any dangerous weapon
or substance unless it remains in a place of storage within the possessor’s
premises, or, if the weapon or substance cannot be readily stored in the
possessor’s premises, unless it remains in a customary place of storage not
readily available to the possessor. The proclamation may also prohibit the sale
or other transfer or the transportation of any dangerous weapon or substance.
The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people
whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous weapons or
substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety or
welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions
from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE means:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, incendiary device or other
instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of serious
bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so destructively used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the city.
(1997 Code, § 93.32)
§ 93.33 LIMITED ACCESS TO CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area,
street or location within the city if that restriction or denial of access or
use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome the
emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(1997 Code, § 93.33)
§ 93.34 REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall by proclamation remove the prohibitions and restrictions as
the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the City
Council.
(1997 Code, § 93.34)
STORAGE OF FIREARMS AND THE LIKE DURING EMERGENCY
§ 93.45 RULES ON STORAGE AND DISPLAY.
   In the event of a state of emergency every person engaged in the business of
selling firearms and ammunition or both shall comply with the following rules.
   (A)   No ammunition shall be displayed on an open counter or in any other
place readily accessible to the public.
   (B)   No ammunition or firearms shall be displayed in windows or display
areas when the business is not regularly open.
   (C)   During any period in which firearms or ammunition or both are
unattended, they shall be stored in a place meeting the requirements of
regulations promulgated by the City Council under authority of this chapter,
or, if no such regulations have been promulgated, in a place difficult of
access to unauthorized persons.
(1997 Code, § 93.45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.46 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL TO PROMULGATE STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized to promulgate regulations governing the
construction, location and accessibility of storage places for firearms and
ammunition required to be used by this chapter. The City Council may adopt any
regulations under this authority that will reasonably and effectively serve to
prevent unauthorized persons from obtaining the stored firearms and ammunition.
   (B)   The City Council shall take reasonable steps to notify all persons
that can be reasonably identified as being affected by such regulations. The
notification of the requirements of the regulations shall sufficiently precede
the effective date of the regulations to permit compliance with them. The city
shall maintain on file an official copy of the regulations.
(1997 Code, § 93.46)
DISPERSAL OF ASSEMBLIES DURING AN EMERGENCY
§ 93.60 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING RESTRICTIONS ON ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may prohibit assemblies of three or more
persons in specified geographic areas of the city after he or she finds that
any such assemblies constitute a clear and present danger of prolonging or
aggravating an existing emergency which endangers lives, safety and property.
The proclamation shall be in writing and state the Mayor’s findings. The Mayor
shall take reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to
those affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the City Hall. The Mayor
shall retain a text of the proclamation and upon request shall furnish
certified copies of it for use as evidence.
   (B)   The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or areas in which
the restrictions apply.
   (C)   The Mayor may amend the proclamation from time to time, making such
modifications in the geographical area to which it applies as he or she
determines to be necessary to maintain the purposes of the prohibition.
   (D)   The Mayor shall by proclamation remove the prohibition when the
emergency no longer requires it or when directed to do so by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 93.55)
§ 93.61 ORDER TO DISPERSE.
   Any police officer may order any assembly prohibited by proclamation
authorized by this chapter to disperse.
(1997 Code, § 93.56)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   [Reserved]
   
94.02   Shooting galleries prohibited within fire zone
Fire Prevention Code
   
94.15   Adoption of code by reference
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Establishment and duties of Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
94.18   Establishment of fire lanes on private property, devoted to public use
   
94.19   Amendments
   
94.20   Modifications
   
94.21   Appeals
   
94.22   New materials, processes or occupancies which require permits
   
94.23   Installation and maintenance of fire protection systems and appliances
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 [RESERVED].
§ 94.02 SHOOTING GALLERIES PROHIBITED WITHIN FIRE ZONE.
   All outdoor shooting galleries are hereby prohibited in the fire zone. This,
however, shall not apply to shooting galleries within a closed structure built
in accordance with fire laws.
(1997 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 94.15 ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The 1988 edition of the State Building Code, Volume V, Fire Prevention, as
adopted by the State Building Code Council and as amended is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the fire prevention code of
the city for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(1997 Code, § 94.15) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The Fire Marshal.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The Attorney for the city.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Roanoke Rapids.
(1997 Code, § 94.16) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.17 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department of the city which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Chief (or Fire Marshal) in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall be appointed by the Fire Chief on the basis of examination to determine
his or her qualifications. His or her appointment shall continue during good
behavior and satisfactory service, and he or she shall not be removed from
office except for cause after public trial.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department is permitted to detail such members
of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the City Manager the
employment of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall
be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the Fire Department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause.
   (D)   A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made annually and
transmitted to the Chief Executive Officer of the municipality; it shall
contain all proceedings under this Code, with such statistics as the Chief of
the Fire Department decides to include therein; the Chief of the Fire
Department shall also recommend any amendments to the Code which, in his or her
judgment, shall be desirable.
   (E)   The Chief of the Fire Department may request and shall receive so far
as may be necessary, in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the municipality.
(1997 Code, § 94.17) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.18 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY, DEVOTED TO PUBLIC USE.
   The fire lanes referred to in Chapter 6, § 602.6 of the Fire Prevention Code
are hereby established as follows.
   (A)   The marking of fire lanes on private property, devoted to public use,
shall be approved by the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and the Chief
of Police.
   (B)    Parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstructing fire lanes shall
be prohibited at all times.
(1997 Code, § 94.18) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 94.19 AMENDMENTS.
   The Fire Prevention Code is amended and changed in the following respects:
(1997 Code, § 94.19) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.20 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall have power to modify any of
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code upon application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided
that the intent of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The particulars of such modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention thereon
shall be entered upon the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be
furnished the applicant.
(1997 Code, § 94.20) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.21 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the Code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant is permitted to appeal from the decision of the Chief of the Bureau
of Fire Prevention to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the
decision appealed.
(1997 Code, § 94.21) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.22 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH REQUIRE PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Manager, the Chief of the Fire Department and the Chief of
the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall act as a committee to determine and
specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new
materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition
to those now enumerated in said Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall post such list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
(1997 Code, § 94.22) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
§ 94.23 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS AND APPLIANCES.
   (A)   All premises where buildings or portions of buildings are located more
than 500 feet from a fire hydrant shall be provided with on-site fire hydrants
and water mains capable of supplying the water flow required by the Fire
Official. The location and number of on-site hydrants shall be as designated by
the Fire Official, with the minimum arrangement being so as to have a hydrant
available for distribution of hose to any portion of any building on the
premises at distances not exceeding 500 feet but in no case shall hose lengths
be greater than 500 feet. Public hydrants are recognized as meeting all or part
of the above requirements.
   (B)   Exception: one- and two-family dwellings with or without attached or
detached accessory structures used exclusively by the owner and not subject to
use by the public.
(1997 Code, § 94.23) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been provided, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code hereby adopted or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the City
Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein,
shall severally from each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not exceeding
$100 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time. When
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the penalty set out in division (B)(1) above
shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1997 Code, § 94.99) (Ord. passed 3-11-1980)
CHAPTER 95: LITTERING
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Keeping public access areas free from litter, trash and the like
   
95.03   Littering of streets or lots prohibited
   
95.04   Throwing, dropping or depositing on public lands, in waters generally,
or from vehicles
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATED JUNK. Wrecked, scrapped, disassembled, unusable, inoperable or
unrepairable construction equipment, appliances, vehicle tires, engines,
transmissions, frames, axles, as well as parts and accessories of these
objects; used building materials and all other non-vegetative debris collected
or stored at a private residence or property or business establishment, or any
non-vegetative debris blown or otherwise deposited onto property owned by third
persons, by flood, storm or other natural event.
   ASHES. Refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted
for transaction of business, for rendering of professional services, for
amusement, for the display or sale or storage of goods, wares, merchandise,
articles or equipment, including hotels, apartment houses, rooming houses,
office buildings, public buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants,
abattoirs, warehouses, sheds, barns and other structures on premises used for
or adapted to business purposes.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste that is the direct by-product of construction of
buildings including such materials as excavated earth, stone, bricks, plaster,
shingles, tiles, concrete, large stumps, shrubs, limbs and other material that
we associate with clearing, remodeling and landscaping projects.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works for the city or his
or her agent.
   DUMPSTER. A painted heavy gauge steel receptacle with a capacity of not more
than eight cubic yards, nor less than four cubic yards and approved by the
Department of Public Works for the disposal and collection of commercial,
industrial and residential solid waste.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessarily incidental thereto.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Waste from factories, processing plants or other
industrial enterprises that is a by- product of the manufacture, processing or
major repair of a product.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars,
bottles, aluminum cans, steel cans, plastic soda bottles, newspapers and
inserts, plastic milk and water jugs, spiral paper cans and other solid waste
including yard waste. Residential solid waste shall not include discarded
building materials, trees, brush and other material resulting from the
activities of building contractors or lawn services, larger quantities of sod,
dirt and trash from land clearing or other material requiring special handling.
   REFUSE. Waste materials resulting from normal day to day cleaning and
operation of a residence, commercial and business activity excluding
industrial, garbage and construction waste. REFUSE includes yard trimmings,
limbs, grass, weeds, small boxes, leaves, cold ashes, garden waste and other
material in small quantities normally coming from occupied premises.
   ROLLOUT CONTAINERS. Ninety-six gallon capacity container of plastic or
comparable material on wheels and approved by the Department of Public Works
for disposal of residential solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   WASTE. Useless, unused, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
natural community activities, including solids, liquids and gases.
(1997 Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 95.02 KEEPING PUBLIC ACCESS AREAS FREE FROM LITTER, TRASH AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to
the carrying on of the principal business of any such commercial establishment
or premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within 400 feet of
any public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain such areas clean
and free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon such street or other public way.
   (B)   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas.
Such receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent scattering
of any trash, litter, rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
(1997 Code, § 95.02) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 LITTERING OF STREETS OR LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place, throw or sweep on any sidewalks, or in any of the
streets or open lots of the city, any filth, trash, glass, paper, boxes, nails,
pieces of board, shingles, barrel hoops, watermelon rinds, or any other thing
of nuisance whatever, but the same shall be deposited in receptacles placed on
the streets in convenient places for removal by the city. Nothing contained in
this section shall prohibit the piling of boxes, barrels and the like, not
emitting an offensive odor and not having a tendency to injure the public
health, on open lots for a period of one week, but in no case shall any boxes,
barrels or other debris of any nature be allowed to remain longer than one
week.
(1997 Code, § 95.03) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 THROWING, DROPPING OR DEPOSITING ON PUBLIC LANDS, IN WATERS GENERALLY,
OR FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dropped or
deposited, on any land in the city, vacant or occupied, included specifically
streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public and semipublic areas and all waters
under the jurisdiction of the city, any waste, including but not limited to
refuse, garbage, ashes, rubbish, dead animals or fish, paper, drinking cups,
broken glass, tacks, brush, grass, weeds and anything injurious to health. If
any person, while transporting or hauling or causing to be transported or
hauled, such rubbish or material, or earth excavation, coal or other material,
shall throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be thrown, dropped or deposited, such
rubbish or material from the body of any vehicle, in violation of the
provisions of this section, such person must daily clean up and remove such
rubbish or material in a manner satisfactory to the Director of Public Works.
If any person fails to clean up and remove such rubbish and material, the
Department of Public Works may clean up and remove such rubbish and material,
and the city may recover the cost of such cleaning up and removal from such
person.
(1997 Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of penalties for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   For violations of any of the provisions of §§
95.02,
95.03, and
95.04, the penalty is $250.
      (2)   For all other violations of this chapter, the penalty is $50.
(1997 Code, § 95.99) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 2000-24, passed 8-8-2000;
Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Certain conditions deemed nuisance
   
96.03   Investigation
   
96.04   Notice of abatement
   
96.05   Removal upon refusal to abate
   
96.06   Cost of removal to be charged to owner; lien
   
96.07   Procedure is in addition to other authorized procedures
   
96.08   Application
Refuse; Weeds
   
96.20   Throwing or depositing leaves, shrubs and the like into catch basins or
manholes
   
96.21   Removal and deposit of trees, logs and the like
   
96.22   Disposal of weeds, trash and other refuse
Noise
   
96.35   Loud, unnecessary noise prohibited
   
96.36   Prohibited noise enumerated
   
96.37   Similar music boxes
   
96.38   Exemptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Chapter 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the authorized representative determines is necessary In the
interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COST. Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including
attorneys’ fees and costs, costs incurred in documenting the violation,
expenses and costs for the city in preparing notices, specifications and
contracts and in accomplishing and/or contracting and inspecting the work.
   ACCUMULATED JUNK. Wrecked, scrapped, disassembled, unusable, inoperable or
unrepairable construction equipment, appliances, vehicle tires, engines,
transmissions, frames, axles, as well as parts and accessories of these
objects; used building materials and all other non-vegetative debris collected
or stored at a private residence or property or business establishment, or any
non-vegetative debris blown or otherwise deposited onto property owned by third
persons, by flood, storm or other natural event.
   ACTUAL COSTS. The city or private contract cost to abate the nuisance. The
units of this cost are equipment, labor and material per hour. This amount is
set each year in the City Council Fee Schedule.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. The person or persons designated by the City
Manager to perform the duties and responsibilities assigned by this chapter.
   DANGEROUS FENCES. The existence of any fence made of wood, vinyl or chain
link located on public or private property which is sagging, leaning and
falling; decayed or otherwise dilapidated or unsafe condition.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURES. The existence of any structure, no larger than 144
square feet which is partially destroyed, damaged, abandoned, boarded up,
dilapidated or in an unsafe condition.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. Residential or commercial property that is cleared and
ready to be built upon, or property where buildings, homes or other structures
may exist. Property contains less than 25% wooded area and can be easily cut.
   FIREWOOD. Parts of trees cut into logs suitable for use in fireplaces or for
use in wood-burning heaters which are not rotten or decayed.
   INOPERABLE EQUIPMENT. Any piece of equipment not currently awaiting repairs
that is not capable of functioning and/or operating for the purpose in which it
was manufactured or intended.
   JUNK. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, abandon or leave outside
any building or dwelling, or upon the property of any other person, or within
an open porch, open carport or open lean-to, within public view, any
accumulated junk or refuse, to include without limitation, solid waste,
household trash, any dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment,
farm machinery, building materials, non-operational vehicle or other item that
is either wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or
inoperative condition and not currently awaiting repairs, and that is not
completely enclosed within a building or dwelling.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage and trash, which may include glass jars,
bottles, aluminum cans, steel cans, plastic soda bottles, newspapers and
inserts, plastic milk and water jugs, spiral paper cans and other solid waste,
including yard waste. Residential solid waste shall not include discarded
building materials, trees, brush and other material resulting from the
activities of building contractors or lawn services, larger quantities of sod,
dirt and trash from land clearing or other material requiring special handling.
   NOXIOUS GROWTH. Uncontrolled growth of grasses or vines (such as kudzu,
honeysuckle, ivy or similar vines), any growth of poisonous plants (poison ivy,
poison oak or related vegetation).
   NUISANCE. Any activity or failure to act that adversely affects the public
and shall include, but is not limited to, any condition which poses an
immediate and direct hazard to human health if left unheeded due to the
existence of the condition itself.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and any person, persons,
organizations or corporation that owns, in whole or part, the land structure,
or other property or is the purchaser of the property under contract.
   REFUSE. Waste materials resulting from normal day to day cleaning and
operation of a residence, commercial and business activity excluding
industrial, garbage and construction waste. REFUSE may include yard trimmings,
limbs, grass, weeds, small boxes, leaves, cold ashes, garden waste and other
material in small quantities normally coming from occupied premises.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. The person(s) responsible for correcting or abating a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter. The RESPONSIBLE PERSON includes the property
owner and/or person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon
property in the city, and includes, but is not limited to, the owner(s), lesser
(s), lessee(s) or other person(s) entitled to control and/or occupy property
where a nuisance occurs.
   SOLID WASTE. Accumulations consisting of any combination of business trash,
garbage, household trash, bulky items, yard waste, recyclables and scrap
materials and shall be collected through curbside trash, rollout, recyclables,
yard waste, bulky items or business trash collection activities.
   UNAUTHORIZED ACCUMULATIONS. Any accumulation of solid waste on any lot,
property, premises, residence, establishment, public street, alley or other
public or private place in violation of any provision of this chapter which is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited. Failure of a
responsible person to remove and correct any such accumulation of solid waste
shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY. Property that is not cleared and 75% of the property
is wooded or has heavy vegetation. Owner will be required to control 25 feet
from property lines adjoining developed property.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 96.02 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DEEMED NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every such owner or
responsible party to keep the premises of such residential and commercial
property clean. It shall be the duty of every person occupying, owning or
having control of property abutting a street or alley to maintain said property
to the edge of the street where water is carried by a ditch, or to the edge of
the gutter where the street is curb and guttered, or to the edge of the travel
portion of the alley.
   (B)   It is hereby found and determined that there exists within the area
subject to the city limits of the city premises that, because of the existence
of the conditions herein determined to be unlawful, constitute a visual blight
and detriment upon the surrounding neighborhood and create substantial and
unreasonable interference with the reasonable and lawful use and enjoyment of
other premises in the neighborhood or conditions inhibit property values, deter
tourism, interfere with the public health and safety or otherwise discourage
the comfort, happiness and emotional stability and general welfare of all
citizens.
   (C)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any lot or parcel
of land within the city limits is hereby declared to be unlawful and a
violation of the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Any of the following conditions in open places (for the purpose of
this section, OPEN PLACES are defined as areas of properties or positions
thereof that are open to the exterior, including building openings of
residential dwelling units, such as carports or porches and any other exterior
portions of properties ordinarily exposed to the outside and/or public view,
including front, side and rear yards):
         (a)   Any litter consisting of man-made and used materials which is
scattered, cast thrown, blown, placed, swept or deposited anywhere on a
persistent, continuous or ongoing bases so as to accumulate on any property in
open places. The owner and occupant of any dwelling unit shall exercise
reasonable diligence at all times to keep exterior premises clean of fitter,
including but not limited to: glass, bottles, waste paper, wrapping paper,
paper napkins, cartons, package containers and other used or waste materials
intentionally or unintentionally scattered, discarded, thrown or haphazardly
left on the premises on a continuous, ongoing or persistent basis and to
prevent the same from drifting or blowing to adjoining premises by removing the
waste or ensuring that the same is placed in approved rollout refuse containers
and/or locations for collection by the city;
         (b)   Any concentration of unusable building materials, including
concrete, steel, masonry, which due to deterioration or age are no longer
suitable for building construction, alterations or repair and which are in open
places;
         (c)   Any worn out, deteriorated or abandoned household or office
furniture, appliances or other similar products of any kind which are kept in
open places;
         (d)   Any products with jagged edges of metal or glass which are kept
in open places;
         (e)   Any junk, waste materials, unusable building materials, trash,
garbage, oily rags, barrels, cans, papers, bricks or brickbats and other
litter, refuse, rubbish or combustible materials which is scattered, cast,
placed or deposited in a yard or yards, so as to constitute an accumulation or
concentration in an open area;
         (f)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of ten inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety. See definition for “undeveloped/developed lot;”
         (g)   Any dangerous building or structure thereon, 144 square feet or
smaller, maintained in such condition that it causes or will cause an
ascertainable deterioration of the property values of surrounding properties or
be otherwise materially detrimental to adjacent properties, interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of nearby properties, and causes a hazard detrimental to
public health or safety;
         (h)   All dangerous fences not maintained in such conditions that
causes or will cause ascertainable deterioration of the property values of
surrounding properties or be otherwise materially detrimental to adjacent
properties, interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby properties, and
causes a hazard detrimental to public health or safety;
         (i)   Abandoned or discarded containers. It shall be unlawful for any
person to discard, abandon, leave or allow to remain in any place, any icebox,
refrigerator or other container, device or equipment of any kind with an
interior storage area of more than two cubic feet of clear space which is
airtight, without first removing the door or hinges from such icebox,
refrigerator, container, device or equipment. This division (C)(1)(i) shall not
apply to any icebox, refrigerator, container, device or equipment which is
being used for the purpose for which it was originally designed or is being
used for display purposes by any retain or wholesale merchant or is crated,
strapped or locked to such an extent that it is impossible for a child to
obtain access to any airtight compartment thereof; and/or
         (j)   Pools of stagnant water causing or threatening to cause
infestation by mosquitoes and other disease-carrying insects which are or may
be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
      (2)   The presence, accumulation, storage or placement of:
         (a)   Junk, including but not limited to deteriorated, unusable or
inoperative furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building materials,
worn out and disused automobiles and parts, tires or any other human-made items
which are either in whole or in part, wrecked, junked, disused, worn out,
dismantled or inoperative.
            1.   Storage of junk shall only be allowed on any properties used
for non-residential purposes if in compliance with all other city codes or if
not addressed by a city code, completely enclosed within a building or
otherwise evenly placed or neatly stacked and concealed by a solid fence, cover
or other means so as to not be visible at the property line from abutting
properties or a public street.
            2.   Storage of junk as an accessory use shall only be allowed on
any property used for residential purposes if completely stored in an enclosed
building or limited to 100 square feet in area and completely concealed by a
solid fence, cover or other means so as not to be visible at the property line
from abutting properties or a public street, concentrated in one area within
the rear yard and neatly arranged or stacked so as not to exceed six feet in
height. Whether stored on a residential or nonresidential property, the storage
of junk shall be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent overgrown grass
or weeds or an infestation of wild animals, reptiles, snakes and rodents.
         (b)   Usable building materials, unless permitted as an authorized
storage in the Code of Ordinances or if stored on any residential lot where
construction has stopped or never commenced for a period of one year and there
is not a current, valid outstanding building permit issued for construction on
the residential lot, the storage is inside a completely enclosed building (if
otherwise permitted on the lot) or placed in the rear of the lot and stored in
accordance with the specifics stated above.
         (c)   Firewood, except when the storage is neither in excess of a
total area of 100 square feet nor stacked to a height more than six feet above
the ground, and stacked in a location so as to not be visible at the property
line from abutting properties or a public street.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2012.03, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 96.03 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it comes to the attention of the City Manager or other authorized
representatives, that there exists on any lot or parcel of land in the city,
any of the conditions enumerated in this chapter, the owner, occupant and/or
person having the lot under his or her control shall receive written notice to
abate and remove the condition(s) or otherwise comply with the city code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 96.04 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The notice shall be deemed sufficient if given by personal
service of written notice or service by registered or certified mail and first
class mail to the persons, owner and/or occupants at his or her last known
address. If the certified mail notice is unclaimed or refused but the first
class mail is not returned within five days after the mailing, the first-class
mail shall be sufficient to provide notice.
      (2)   If notice cannot be made by either of the above methods, such
notice will be posted and kept posted for ten days, in placard form, in a
conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation exists.
   (B)   The person so served shall have ten days from the date of service in
which to remedy the same or the city shall cause the same to be remedied,
unless an appeal for relief in writing is made within this time period to the
City Manager.
   (C)   In lieu of or in addition to notice, a citation notice may be issued.
In the event the City Manager or other authorized representative determines
that a nuisance is an immediate detriment to human safety or welfare, he or she
may take appropriate action to summarily abate the condition without notice.
   (D)   The city may notify a chronic violator of
Chapter 96, Nuisances that, if the violator’s property is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the city shall, without further notice in the
calendar year in which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation and
the expense of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be
collected as unpaid taxes.
      (1)   The initial annual notice shall be served by registered or
certified mail.
      (2)   A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon, in the
previous calendar year, the city took remedial action at least three times
under
Chapter 96.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2010-16, passed 7-13-2010)
§ 96.05 REMOVAL UPON REFUSAL TO ABATE.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within the time period designated by such order, the City Manager
shall cause such condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having
employees of the city or an independent contractor employed by the city go upon
such premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance under the supervision
of an officer or employee designated by the City Manager.
   (B)   An administrative cost of $250 shall be charged to the owner of such
lot or parcel of land upon which a nuisance has been determined to exist and
which remains unabated or subject to city removal by the owner’s request.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 96.06 COST OF REMOVAL TO BE CHARGED TO OWNER; LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the city in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance, including administrative costs, shall be charged
to the owner of such lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the
city to mail a statement of such charges to the owner or other person in
possession of such premises with instructions that such charges are due and
payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (B)    In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public
nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of the
charges, the expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default as
set out in G.S. § 160A-193(a). If the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the
land or premises where the public nuisance occurred. A lien established
pursuant to this division (B) shall have the same priority and be collected as
unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (C)   As set out in G.S. § 160A-193(b), the expense of any action under this
subchapter is also a lien on any other real property owned by the person in
default within the city limits or within one mile of the city limits, except
for the person's primary residence. A lien established pursuant to this
division (C) is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money
judgment. This division (C) shall not apply if the person in default can show
that the nuisance was created solely by the actions of another.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 96.07 PROCEDURE IS IN ADDITION TO OTHER AUTHORIZED PROCEDURES.
   The procedure set forth in §§
96.01 through 96.08 shall be in addition to any other remedies that may now or
hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances. Nothing herein
shall be read to limit the city's authority under G.S. § 160A-193 to summarily
remove, abate, or remedy everything in the city limits, or within one mile
thereof, that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety;
provided, however, that the procedures set out in §§
96.01 through
96.08 shall be used at all times unless the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee makes a written finding that the condition in question poses an
imminent threat to the safety of persons and property such that the procedures
set forth in §§
96.01 through
96.08, if followed, unreasonably delay necessary action to remove, abate, or
remedy the condition.
(Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 96.08 APPLICATION.
   While dwellings may constitute a public nuisance, the city will follow the
procedures in G.S. § 160A-443 as stated in Chapter 152 whenever a dwelling is
found to create a public nuisance. Whenever a nonresidential structure is found
to be a nuisance, the city will abide by the procedures set forth in G.S. §
160A-439 as stated in Chapter 150.
(Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
REFUSE; WEEDS
§ 96.20 THROWING OR DEPOSITING LEAVES, SHRUBS AND THE LIKE INTO CATCH BASINS OR
MANHOLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, drop or deposit any leaves, shrubs or other
debris into any catch basins or manhole in the city.
   (B)   In addition, no person shall place, blow or cause to be blown any
grass clippings or yard debris into the city right-of-way.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 REMOVAL AND DEPOSIT OF TREES, LOGS AND THE LIKE.
   The city will not remove any trees, logs, laps, limbs, stumps or roots from
any vacant lot, and it shall be unlawful for any person to deposit upon any
street, alley or sidewalk any trees, logs, laps, limbs, stumps or roots.
(Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.22 DISPOSAL OF WEEDS, TRASH AND OTHER REFUSE.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying any premises within the corporate
limits shall keep the premises free from noxious weeds, vines, briars, bushes,
trash and all other forms of animal or vegetable refuse which may be dangerous
or prejudicial to public health or which may constitute a public nuisance. No
owner or occupant of any premises shall bury thereon any animal or vegetable
matter which upon decaying may become dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health or may constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   Any man-made or natural materials and/or litter which is scattered,
cast, thrown, blown, placed, swept, or deposited anywhere on a persistent,
continuous or ongoing basis so as to accumulate on any property in open places
such that it is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or otherwise
constitutes a public nuisance. (For purposes of this chapter, OPEN PLACES are
defined as areas of properties or portions thereof that are open to the
exterior, including building openings of residential dwelling units, such as
carports or porches, and any other exterior portions of properties ordinarily
exposed to the outside and/or public view, including front, side and rear
yards.)
   (C)   The owner and occupant of any property and/or dwelling unit shall
exercise reasonable diligence at all times to keep exterior premises clean of
used materials and/or litter, including glass, bottles, waste paper, wrapping
paper, paper napkins, cartons, package containers, and other used or waste
materials intentionally or unintentionally scattered, discarded, thrown, or
haphazardly left on such premises on a continuous, ongoing or persistent basis,
and to prevent same from adversely affecting adjoining premises by removing
such waste or ensuring that same is placed in approved refuse containers and/or
locations for collection by the city as specified in
Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2008.16, passed 4-22-2008) Penalty, see §
96.99
NOISE
§ 96.35 LOUD, UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noise in the city.
   (B)   Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental
to the public health, welfare, peace and dignity is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. passed 5-25-1999; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.36 PROHIBITED NOISE ENUMERATED.
   The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noise in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long-
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of persons in the
vicinity;
   (B)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential area so as to cause a loud or offensive noise to be
emitted therefrom between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (C)   The playing of any musical devices with or without sound amplifying
devices or equipment in any residential area in such manner as to create
unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the vicinity;
   (D)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street adjacent
to any church;
   (E)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital or funeral parlor which unreasonably and
unnecessarily interferes with the working of such institutions;
   (F)   The operation of a motor vehicle in the city in such a manner as to
cause the wheels thereof to lose traction with the surface on which they are
driven, or so as to cause the tires to squeal; and
   (G)   The operation on public property or on a public vehicular area of any
sound amplifier which is part of or connected to any radio, stereo receiver,
compact disc player, cassette tape player or other similar device when operated
in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from such
device, or vehicle in which such device is located.
(Ord. passed 5-25-1999; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2020.05, passed 4-
21-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.37 SIMILAR MUSIC BOXES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a music, loudspeaker, amplifier or similar
sound device in any store or other place of business or at such a volume,
character, intensity or duration as to disturb the peace and dignity of any
residents.
(Ord. passed 5-25-1999; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-
14-2010) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Loudspeakers or sound devices used in conjunction with parades,
demonstrations or other events duly authorized by the appropriate city official
or sound devices used for authorized emergency purposes are exempt from this
chapter;
   (B)   Any noise generated from commercial venues such as concerts,
amphitheaters, water parks, amusement parks and other similar outdoor related
operations which take place within an Entertainment Overlay District, as
defined by the Land Use Ordinance, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 11:30
p.m.;
   (C)   Noise created by the exit of vehicular traffic from events within an
Entertainment Overlay District at any time; and
   (D)   Noise from any musical devices with or without sound amplification
equipment and located within an Entertainment Overlay District and being a
commercial venue referenced in division (B) above between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 11:30 p.m.
(Ord. passed 5-25-1999; Ord. passed 8-11-2006; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter besides those listed in §§
96.01 through
96.08 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the civil
penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for violation
of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of penalties for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   For violations of any of the provisions of §§
96.20 through
96.22, the penalty is $250.
      (2)   For violations of any of the provisions of §
96.35 through
96.37, the penalty is $150.
(Ord. passed 9-11-2001; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-8-2010; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-
17-2023)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Hours of operation
   
97.02   Vehicles in parks
   
97.03   Disorderly conduct
   
97.04   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs and
the like
   
97.05   Dumping or depositing garbage or refuse
Roanoke Canal Commission Property
   
97.20   Rules and regulations
Hodgestown Park Property
   
97.35   Rules and regulations
Rochelle Pond
   
97.50   Rules and regulations
Skateboard/BMX Park
   
97.65   Requirement of protective safety gear
   
97.98   Issuance of citation; time limit for payment
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Department, see §§
31.015 and
31.016
   Recreation Advisory Committee, see §§
31.030 through
31.034
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All city parks and recreation areas shall be open to the public between
sunrise and sunset, or as posted, on each day and it shall be unlawful for any
person to use or inhabit any city park or recreation area at any other time
except when the park or recreation area is open and being operated under the
direct supervision of the Parks and Recreation Department or when same is being
used by written authorization of the Parks and Recreation Department or its
designated official.
(1997 Code, § 97.01) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978; Ord. 2015-01, passed 2-3-2015)
§ 97.02 VEHICLES IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or propel any motor
vehicle, minibike, motorcycle or other vehicle in, over or through any park,
except along and upon park drives, parkways and park boulevards.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or permit to be parked any
vehicle anywhere except upon designated parking areas authorized by the Parks
and Recreation Department or its designated official.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to back any vehicle into any parking space in any
park and in such a manner that the state license plate on the rear of such
parked vehicle would be invisible to any law enforcement officer while inside
of his or her police vehicle, when passing or stopped in front of such parked
vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 97.02) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any profane, boisterous or
insulting language or to be guilty of disorderly conduct of any kind in any
city park or recreation area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise in any park or recreation area except
normal cheering and applauding during the progress of a duly authorized
activity.
(1997 Code, § 97.03) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, NARCOTIC DRUGS AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring upon, possess, consume or
display any alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs in any city park; and it
shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of intoxicating beverages
to enter or remain within any city park or recreation area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of narcotic
drugs to enter or remain within any city park or recreation area.
(1997 Code, § 97.04) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   Except in containers provided for same, no person shall deposit, dump,
throw, cast, lay or place or cause to be deposited, dumped, thrown, cast, laid
or placed any ashes, trash, beer cans or bottles, rubbish, soil, earth, paper,
garbage, refuse, debris, plant clippings or limbs or leaves in or upon any city
park or recreation areas or in any watercourse, lake, pond or slough within
such park lands.
(1997 Code, § 97.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-1978) Penalty, see §
97.99
ROANOKE CANAL COMMISSION PROPERTY
§ 97.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall remove, destroy, vandalize, scar, mutilate, injure or
take any plants, animals, signs or structures on the Roanoke Canal Commission,
Inc. property.
   (B)   Littering, dumping and polluting are prohibited on the Roanoke Canal
Commission, Inc. property.
   (C)   Motorized vehicles are prohibited on the Roanoke Canal Commission,
Inc. property.
   (D)   The Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property parking lot is for trail
users only and shall not be used for fishing purposes.
   (E)   Camping is prohibited on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property.
   (F)   No horses are allowed on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property.
   (G)   Only pets on a leash shall be allowed on the Roanoke Canal Commission,
Inc. property.
   (H)   No hunting, trapping, hunting weapons or trapping equipment is allowed
on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property.
   (I)   No explosives or fireworks are allowed on the Roanoke Canal
Commission, Inc. property.
   (J)   No fires are allowed on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property.
   (K)   Alcoholic beverages are prohibited on the Roanoke Canal Commission,
Inc. property. No persons who are under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol
are allowed on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property.
   (L)   Drunk and disruptive conduct is not allowed on the Roanoke Canal
Commission, Inc., property.
   (M)   The hours of operation on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property
shall be from sunrise to sunset. Persons on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc.
property after hours shall be considered trespassing, unless in performance of
assigned duties.
   (N)   Structures such as fences, buildings, shelters, tree houses and the
like, are prohibited on the Roanoke Canal Commission, Inc. property without
written authorization.
(1997 Code, § 97.15) (Res. passed 4-12-1988; Ord. 2015-03, passed 5-19-2015)
Penalty, see §
97.99
HODGESTOWN PARK PROPERTY
§ 97.35 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The hours of operation of the Hodgestown Park shall be from sunrise to
sunset. Persons on the Hodgestown Park property after hours shall be considered
trespassing, unless in the performance of assigned duties.
(1997 Code, § 97.20) (Ord. passed 7-9-1991) Penalty, see §
97.99
ROCHELLE POND
§ 97.50 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The hours and operation of the Rochelle Pond shall be from sunrise to
sunset.
   (B)   No parking is allowed on Harvey Circle right-of-way after sunset.
   (C)   No wading or swimming is allowed in the pond.
   (D)   Fishing shall be catch and release only.
   (E)   Disruptive conduct is not allowed.
   (F)   Motorized boats are prohibited from being on the pond.
   (G)   Littering is prohibited.
   (H)   Alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs are prohibited.
   (I)   Use of the pond is at one’s own risk. The city assumes no
responsibility for accidents and injuries.
(1997 Code, § 97.25) (Ord. passed 10-23-2001) Penalty, see §
97.99
SKATEBOARD/BMX PARK
§ 97.65 REQUIREMENT OF PROTECTIVE SAFETY GEAR.
   Any user of the city-owned skateboard/BMX park is required to wear a helmet,
elbow pads and kneepads.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 3-1-2016) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.98 ISSUANCE OF CITATION; TIME LIMIT FOR PAYMENT.
   A police officer shall issue a citation to violators of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 97.98) (Res. passed 4-12-1988; Ord. passed 10-23-2001) Penalty,
see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $25 per day.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly or willingly violates §
97.02 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $500.
(1997 Code, § 97.99)
   (C)   Any violation of any provision of §
97.05 of this chapter shall subject the violator to a penalty in the sum of
$250 per day.
   (D)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in §§ 97.99(A), (B), and (C) for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
(1997 Code, § 97.98)
(Res. passed 4-12-1988; Ord. passed 10-23-2001; Ord. 2016-03, passed 1-19-2016;
Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 98: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Placing objects on streets, alleys and sidewalks
   
98.02   Assemblies obstructing streets and sidewalks
   
98.03   Use by merchants regulated
   
98.04   Drains under sidewalks
   
98.05   Use of sidewalks by certain vehicles prohibited
   
98.06   Skating, skateboarding; coasting on sidewalks prohibited
   
98.07   Planting and protection of trees
   
98.08   Street names and property numbering
Excavations; Street Closings
   
98.20   Permit to dig in streets
   
98.21   Driving past, around or over barricades
   
98.22   Removing, destroying barricades
Opening or Extension of Public Streets
   
98.35   Permit required
   
98.36   Failure to comply
   
98.37   Obligation of city to repair
Parades and Demonstrations
   
98.50   Definitions
   
98.51   Permit required; exceptions
   
98.52   Issuance of permit; requirements
   
98.53   Revocation of permit
   
98.54   Interference prohibited
   
98.55   Certain activities prohibited
   
98.56   Picketing; additional regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone, wood or other substance obstructing the streets shall be
suffered to lie in the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city, and no person
shall place in any street or alley or upon any sidewalk in the city any boxes,
crates, casks, barrels or other obstructions, except in receptacles used for
the purpose of receiving garbage, waste paper and trash of every description
for removal by the city. Every day such obstructions are permitted to remain
shall constitute a distinct violation of this section; provided, however, that
building material, earth and other obstructions of like character in use for
building purposes, may be by permission of the City Manager allowed under such
restrictions as he or she may impose.
(1997 Code, § 98.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.02 ASSEMBLIES OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   All crowds or assemblages of persons who shall congregate on the streets or
sidewalks of the city, thereby obstructing the same to the inconvenience of
pedestrians, shall be dispersed by the police, and any person who refuses to
obey the warning of the officer shall be deemed to violate this section.
(1997 Code, § 98.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.03 USE BY MERCHANTS REGULATED.
   (A)   Within the B-1 District as defined by the city’s Land Use Ordinance,
goods and merchandise for the purpose of sale or advertisement may be displayed
on the city street or sidewalk seven days a week, as follows.
      (1)   Goods and merchandise for the purpose of sale or advertisement may
be displayed except for upholstered furniture, mattresses, electronics, animals
or livestock, and appliances.
      (2)   All items may be displayed only during the business hours of
operation.
      (3)   Items for display may extend no further than three feet from the
building onto the sidewalk; however, clearance of a minimum of four feet must
be maintained at all times.
      (4)   A business may only display goods and merchandise along the street
or sidewalk within one-half of the length of their building frontage.
   (B)   The occupant of any building abutting upon any sidewalk may
temporarily use the same for such time only as may be necessary while engaged
in loading, or unloading or otherwise carrying or transporting the same in or
out of such building; provided further, that no person shall load, unload,
place or maintain goods, wares or merchandise in front of the business of the
person, whenever there shall be an alley in the rear of the business and the
alley can be used for the purpose of such loading and unloading.
   (C)   Sidewalk cafés.
      (1)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to the
contrary, sidewalk cafés or sidewalk dining shall be permitted in the B-1 and
B-4 Business Districts to include the Entertainment Overlay District (EOD) as
indicated on the official zoning map of the city and shall be subject to such
regulations as are set forth in this division (C).
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         PEDESTRIAN WAY. An improved walk or passageway, not adjacent to any
city street, intended for use by pedestrians.
         RESTAURANT. An establishment engaged in the business of regularly
selling food, customarily, but not exclusively, to be eaten on the premises,
including businesses that are commonly referred to as restaurants, cafeterias
or cafés, where food is sold.
         RESTAURANT OPERATOR. A person, firm or corporation who owns or
operates a restaurant and any associated sidewalk café.
         SIDEWALK. The portion of a public street between the curb line, or the
lateral lines of a roadway if there is no curb, and the adjacent property line
or street right-of-way line that is intended for the use of pedestrians.
         SIDEWALK CAFÉ. The portion of the dining operation of a restaurant
that extends into the sidewalk or pedestrian way pursuant to a permit
authorized by this division (C).
      (3)   Permit required. No restaurant owner may operate a sidewalk café
without first obtaining a permit from the City Manager in accordance with the
requirements of this division (C). As used in this division (C), the term City
Manager includes his or her authorized representative.
      (4)   Permit; application.
         (a)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to
the contrary, sidewalk cafés shall be permitted at such locations and subject
to such regulations as are set forth in this section.
         (b)   Application. Any restaurant owner desiring to operate a sidewalk
café shall prepare and file an application with the City Manager which shall
contain the following information:
            1.   The name, address and telephone number of the restaurant
desiring to operate a sidewalk café;
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of the restaurant owner
and operator;
            3.   The type of food, beverage or food product to be sold and
served at the sidewalk café;
            4.   The hours of operation of the restaurant and the proposed
hours of operation of the sidewalk café;
            5.   A drawing or site plan showing the section of sidewalk or
pedestrian way to be used for the sidewalk café, and the section to be kept
clear for pedestrian and fire lane use, and depicting the proposed placement of
tables, chairs, barricades, umbrellas, trash receptacles and other furnishings
on the sidewalk or pedestrian way;
            6.   Indemnity; insurance. In consideration for the granting of the
permit, the restaurant operator agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the city,
its officers, agents and employees against loss or expense including attorneys
fees, by reason of the liability imposed by law upon the city, for damage
because of bodily injury, including death, at the time resulting therefrom,
sustained by any person or persons, or on account of damage to property arising
out of or in consequence of the granting of a permit pursuant to this division
(C)(4). The restaurant shall agree to such indemnity on the application for the
permit. The restaurant operator shall secure and maintain comprehensive general
liability insurance protection including but not limited to coverage for all
premises and non-premises operations, independent contractors, broad form
property damage coverage, including explosion, collapse and underground
property damage hazards, personal injury liability protection including
coverage relating to employment of persons, contractual liability protection
covering the indemnification of the city by restaurant operator. All insurance
required under this agreement shall be written with a company licensed to do
business in the state. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional
insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be cancelled
prior to the expiration date except upon 30 days advance written notice to the
city. Certificates of insurance or binders for all of the insurance coverages
described herein shall be submitted with the application for the permit. If
only binders are submitted with the application, the restaurant operator shall
submit to the city’s Risk Administrator, Department of Risk Management,
certificates of insurance for all of the insurance coverages described herein
within 30 days after a permit is granted and, with respect to certified copies
of any amendments, and/or renewals, promptly thereafter;
            7.   A copy of all the permits and licenses by the county, state or
the city, including health and ABC permits and business licenses, necessary for
the operation of the restaurant business, or a copy of the application for the
permit if no permit has been issued. This requirement includes any permits or
certificates issued by the city or other governmental authority, for exterior
alterations or improvements to the restaurant;
            8.   A sworn statement describing any violation by the restaurant
owner and operator of any laws, regulations or ordinances relating to the
possession, sale consumption or transportation of intoxicating beverages or
controlled substances during the five years immediately preceding the date of
the permit application;
            9.   Such additional information as may be requested by the City
Manager or his or her designee in order to determine compliance with this
section; and
            10.   A one-time fee in the amount of $100 to cover the cost of
processing and investigating the application and issuing the permit.
      (5)   Issuance of permit. No permit for the operation of a sidewalk café
may be issued unless the application is complete and the following requirements
are met.
         (a)   The sidewalk café must be associated with an operating
restaurant such that it is under the same management and shares the same food
preparation facilities, restroom facilities and other customer convenience
facilities as the restaurant. The sidewalk café must be operated under the same
name as the restaurant and may not be open or operated at any time when the
restaurant is not open for business.
         (b)   The operation of the sidewalk café must be clearly incidental to
the associated restaurant business. The seating capacity of the sidewalk café
may not be more than 50% of the interior seating of the associated restaurant.
         (c)   The placement of tables and chairs and other furnishings as
shown in the drawing submitted with the site plan must be done in such a manner
that at least five feet of unobstructed space remains on the sidewalk or
pedestrian way for the passage of pedestrians. No fire exits or lanes may be
blocked and such must remain clear at all times. The pedestrian passage may not
be used for the display of merchandise or for portable signs.
         (d)   The restaurant seeking to operate the sidewalk café must front
on and open onto the sidewalk or pedestrian way proposed for the sidewalk café.
The placement of tables, chairs and other furnishings may not extend beyond the
sidewalk or pedestrian way frontage of the associated restaurant, with the
following exception: tables, chairs and other furnishings may extend up to
eight feet onto adjacent property frontage in either or both directions with
the written permission (provided at the time of application) of the occupant of
the adjacent property.
         (e)   The tables, chairs and other furnishings used in the sidewalk
café shall not be anchored and shall be of a type of street furniture that is
easily moveable. All tables, chairs and other furnishings shall be removed
every day at the close of business.
         (f)   Except as elsewhere permitted by the code, the operation or
furnishings of the sidewalk café shall involve no permanent alteration to or
encroachment upon any street, sidewalk or pedestrian way or to the exterior of
the associated restaurant.
         (g)   Each sidewalk café shall provide adequate trash receptacles for
its patrons within the perimeter of the barricades. At the end of each business
day and during operating hours, the operator shall remove all trash and debris
of any sort from the area within the sidewalk alongside and abutting properties
any trash or debris originating as a result of the operation of the sidewalk
café.
         (h)   All sidewalk cafés shall remain in compliance with §§
96.35 through
96.37 of the municipal code.
         (i)   No live entertainment is permitted on a sidewalk or pedestrian
way unless it is in conjunction with a separate permitted special event.
         (j)   All patrons of a sidewalk café must be associated with a
designated table partaking in food and beverages from the associated
restaurant. People not patronizing the associated restaurant or sidewalk café
shall not be loitering in the sidewalk café area.
      (6)   Alcoholic beverages. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
code, alcoholic beverages may be served in approved sidewalk cafés provided
that the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The sidewalk café shall be part of a restaurant and shall
otherwise be authorized, permitted or licensed under the state law and this
code to serve and sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption.
         (b)   The sidewalk café must be included as part of the premises for
which an ABC permit is issued pursuant to state law, for the purpose of
applying and enforcing state laws regarding the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
         (c)   Signs shall be posted, visible at all exit points from the
sidewalk café, that it is unlawful to remove alcoholic beverages from the
premises.
         (d)   The restaurant operator shall not have violated any law,
regulation or ordinance relating to the possession, sale, transportation or
consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled substances for the three
years preceding the commencement of the sale of alcoholic beverages at the
sidewalk café.
         (e)   No outdoor bar is allowed with the sidewalk café, nor shall
outdoor preparation of alcoholic beverages be permitted except that unfortified
wine may be decanted or beer poured at a table as part of a meal.
      (7)   Denial. A permit may be denied if it is found that the application
does not demonstrate compliance with the section and/or that the granting of
the permit would not be in the public interest. Any applicant denied a permit
to operate a sidewalk café shall receive a written statement outlining the
grounds on which the denial is based. The applicant may appeal the denial of
the permit to City Council within 15 working days after the date of the written
denial, and City Council may take such action as it shall find necessary. The
finding and determination of City Council shall constitute final action by the
city.
      (8)   Terms and transfer. Permits for a sidewalk café issued in
accordance with the provisions of this division (C) shall be issued for the
period beginning July 1 or thereafter and expiring June 30 of each year. If a
permittee discontinues the restaurant operation or the sidewalk café, no refund
of the permit fee shall be made. Permits issued pursuant to this section shall
not be transferable or assignable, Permits may prohibit operation of sidewalk
cafés during special events and contain other conditions and restrictions as
may be necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
      (9)   Permit suspension. 
         (a)   The City Manager may suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
section if he or she finds one or more of the following conditions exist:
            1.   Violation of any provision of the County Health Department
regulations or of this section;
            2.   Violation of any law, regulation or ordinance regarding the
possession, sale, transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or
controlled substances;
            3.   Operation of the sidewalk café in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or to constitute a hazard to the public health, safety or
welfare; specifically including failure to keep the café area clean and free of
refuse; and/or
            4.   Operation of the restaurant or sidewalk café in violation of
any city, county or state law, ordinance or regulation.
         (b)   Such permit suspension shall take effect immediately upon
delivery of a citation to the restaurant operator or, in his or her absence,
the person with supervisory authority over the operation of the restaurant and
shall be reinstated once the City Manager has verified that the condition has
been remedied.
         (c)   The restaurant operator may request a hearing contesting the
suspension of the permit by filing written notice thereof upon the City
Manager. Such hearing shall be held and a written decision rendered within 15
days of the date of receipt. Such decision of the City Manager may be appealed
to the City Council by written notice thereof filed with the City Clerk within
15 days of the date of receipt of said decision.
      (10)   Permit revocation. 
         (a)   The City Manager may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this
division (C) if he or she finds that the restaurant owner/operator has:
            1.   Deliberately misrepresented or provided false information in
the permit application;
            2.   Violated any provision of the County Health Department
regulations or of this division (C);
            3.   Violated any law, regulation or ordinance regarding the
possession, sale, transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or
controlled substances;
            4.   Operated the sidewalk café in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or to constitute a hazard to the public health, safety or
welfare; specifically including failure to keep the café area clean and free of
refuse;
            5.   Failed to maintain any health, business or other permit or
licensed required by law for the operation of a restaurant business;
            6.   Fails to consistently maintain the sidewalk café in a neat and
trash free manner; and
            7.   Operated the restaurant or sidewalk café in violation of any
city, county or state law, ordinance or regulation.
         (b)   In the event the City Manager determines good grounds exist for
the revocation of a permit issued under this division (C), he or she shall
provide the restaurant operator a notice to show cause, stating with
particularly the grounds therefor, why the sidewalk café permit should not be
revoked.
         (c)   The restaurant operator shall be provided an opportunity for a
hearing, following which the City Manager shall render an order in writing.
         (d)   The restaurant operator may appeal any such order by filing a
written appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days of receipt thereof. City
Council shall conduct a hearing on the appeal and render its decision thereon.
         (e)   The finding and determination of City Council shall constitute
final action by the city.
(1997 Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 2010-21, passed 10-5-2010; Ord. 2010-23, passed 11-
9-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.04 DRAINS UNDER SIDEWALKS.
   All surface drains from any lot or building into the street gutter shall be
by means of tile conductors extending under the sidewalks. Any owner of a lot
failing to comply with this section after five days’ written notice from the
Director of Public Works shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day’s
failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 98.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.05 USE OF SIDEWALKS BY CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, roll or drive on the sidewalks
of the city any wheelbarrow, handcart, hand carriage, lawn mower, motorized
scooter, bicycle or other vehicle, except passing directly across the sidewalks
into or out of a house or lot; provided, however, that nothing contained in
this section shall prevent the use on the sidewalks of the city of a hand
carriage to carry an infant or invalid, and the use of velocipedes, tricycles,
kiddie-cars and other toys by young children.
(1997 Code, § 98.05) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.06 SKATING, SKATEBOARDING; COASTING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate with roller skates or
skateboards, and to coast with wagons or sleds on the sidewalks of the city and
on the sidewalks in that territory over which the city has criminal
jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 98.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.07 PLANTING AND PROTECTION OF TREES.
   Under the supervision of the Director of Public Works, citizens may plant
trees in front of and around their lots between the streets and the sidewalks;
provided, they shall not plant any trees that are detrimental to the sidewalks
or streets. No trees shall be planted in the streets or gutters. If any person
shall cut or damage any tree upon the streets of the city without permission of
the Director of Public Works, or shall dig up or injure, or shall tack or post
any advertisement upon such trees, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 98.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.08 STREET NAMES AND PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   (A)   All streets accepted for maintenance by the city shall be named by the
City Council. All streets accepted for maintenance by the State Department of
Transportation shall be named by the Board of Transportation. Private streets
may be named by the owner with the approval of the City Planning Department.
      (1)   Street name signs shall be installed and maintained by the
respective naming authority. Damage, removal or possession of a public street
sign shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   All improved properties within the city shall be assigned numbers by
the Planning Department.
      (1)   Within 30 days of notice having been sent by the Planning
Department or its agent, the owner or occupant of an improved property shall
post the address numbers so assigned.
      (2)   The minimum height of address numbers shall be not less than four
inches and the minimum width shall not be less than one-half inch with a brush
stroke between each number, and shall be located within a three-foot perimeter
of a building’s front entrance so that they shall be legible from the traveled
way. In the event that a building is located more than 100 feet from the
traveled way or is landscaped in such a way that the numbers cannot be seen
from the traveled way, the assigned address numbers shall also be posted at, or
near, the property line at a driveway or walkway serving the building so as to
be clearly visible from both directions of road travel.
      (3)   The address numbers shall contrast in color to that which they are
mounted and shall be maintained in a clearly visible manner.
      (4)   With respect to all improved properties served by private streets
or arranged in such a manner to preclude address numbers being visible from a
public street (e.g., mobile home stalls, apartments, shopping center tenants
and the like) location numbers shall be assigned and installed consistent with
the provisions referenced above.
      (5)   Upon posting the assigned address and location numbers, the owner
and occupant shall maintain such numbers in compliance with this section.
(1997 Code, § 98.09) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS; STREET CLOSINGS
§ 98.20 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or the agent or employee of any
such person to make or cause to be made any hole, ditch or excavation of any
nature, regardless of purpose, in, on, across, over or under any street,
sidewalk or alley, whether paved or unpaved, within the city without first
obtaining a permit so to do from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   If any person obtains a permit from the Director of Public Works to
make a hole, ditch or excavation in, on, across, over or under any street,
sidewalk or alley, it shall be the duty of such person to perform the work in a
careful, safe and workmanlike manner, and to repair any damage done and to
restore the street, sidewalk or alley to the same condition it was before such
hole, ditch or excavation was made, and to maintain and keep the same in a good
and safe condition for a period of 12 months thereafter.
(1997 Code, § 98.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.21 DRIVING PAST, AROUND OR OVER BARRICADES.
   No person shall drive any vehicle or animal past, around or over any
barricade lawfully placed upon any street by city officials or employees, which
street has been closed by such barricades, except by consent of persons
authorized to give such consent.
(1997 Code, § 98.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.22 REMOVING, DESTROYING BARRICADES.
   No person, other than an employee of the city, shall remove, tear down or
destroy any barricade which has been erected by the city.
(1997 Code, § 98.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
OPENING OR EXTENSION OF PUBLIC STREETS
§ 98.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open any new street, alley or
driveway for use by the public or to extend any existing street, alley or
driveway for use by the public without first obtaining approval to do so from
the City Planning Board.
(1997 Code, § 98.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.36 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person shall be required to close any street, alley or driveway, opened
or extended without first obtaining a permit to do so, immediately upon receipt
of written notice to close same from the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 98.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.37 OBLIGATION OF CITY TO REPAIR.
   The city shall not be obligated to repair, improve or maintain any street,
alley or driveway opened in violation of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 98.37)
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 98.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to
such assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public
grounds or places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of such person, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons.
(1997 Code, § 98.50)
§ 98.51 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or
participate in any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public place within the city unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the city in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where such activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; and
      (3)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(1997 Code, § 98.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.52 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is authorized to issue permits
as required in §
98.51, and in the issuance thereof, he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for a permit to be filed not less than
30 days in advance of such parade, picket line or group demonstration. Such
application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief, shall require the
application to be signed by the applicant or applicants, shall require that the
applicant show the proposed time, place, purpose and size of such parade,
picket line or group demonstration and whether or not any minors below the age
of 18 years shall participate;
   (B)   Refuse to issue such permit when the activity or purpose stated in the
application would violate any ordinance of the city or statute of the state or
when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present danger to the
public health or safety or would hinder or prevent the orderly movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys or sidewalks;
   (C)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18 years
will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or not such
minors may participate and shall base his or her determination upon whether or
not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be detrimental
to or endanger the health, safety or welfare of such minors or will interfere
with their education;
   (D)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. Such person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration
and shall carry such permit with him or her at that time. Such permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person;
   (E)   The permit shall set the starting time, duration, speed of travel and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or group
demonstration; shall prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public places to be used; and may impose such other
reasonable requirements as the Chief may prescribe for the control and free
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or for the health, safety and
property rights of the participants and the general public; and
   (F)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
      (1)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties;
      (2)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property owners
in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their property;
and
      (3)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, and will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public, and will not be likely to
cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to
create a public disturbance.
(1997 Code, § 98.52) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 98.53 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
98.55; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(1997 Code, § 98.53)
§ 98.54 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(1997 Code, § 98.54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.55 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities when performed or undertaken in conjunction
with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group demonstration are hereby
prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person of any firearm, except by those
persons granted a concealed carry permit pursuant to G.S. Chapter 14, Article
54B or as otherwise authorized; and
   (C)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(1997 Code, § 98.55) (Ord. 2018.08, passed 12-18-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.56 PICKETING; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and not march closer
together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not be
allowed to walk more than five feet from the curb line and shall be in
continuous motion.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and such use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of such sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(1997 Code, § 98.56) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Registration required
   
99.04   Alarm service termination
   
99.05   Proper alarm systems operation and maintenance
   
99.06   Manual reset required
   
99.07   System performance reviews
   
99.08   False alarm fines
 
   
99.09   Appeals
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to require security alarm users and
alarm businesses (sales, installation, customer service and/or monitoring) to
maintain the operational reliability and the proper use of alarm systems in
limiting unnecessary police emergency responses to false alarms.
   (B)   This chapter governs burglary and robbery systems, requires
registrations, provides for penalties for violations, and establishes a system
of administration.
   (C)   Registration is required in order to maintain an accurate up-to-date
list of responsible persons, key holder contacts, and phone numbers required to
adequately respond to activated alarms.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM NOTIFICATION. A notification intended to summon the police, which is
designed either to be initiated purposely by a person or by an alarm system
that responds to a stimulus characteristic of unauthorized intrusion.
   ALARM SITE. A single premise or location served by an alarm system or
systems.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A device or system that emits, transmits or relays a signal
intended to summon, or that would reasonably be expected to summon, police
services of the city, including, but not limited to, local alarms. ALARM SYSTEM
does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is permanently
located at the site; nor
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises that
does not have a local alarm.
   CHIEF. The Chief of Police or an authorized representative.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm in which the responding officer finds no evidence of a
criminal offense or attempted criminal offense. Excluded from this definition
are:
      (1)   Alarms occurring during electrical storms, hurricane, tornado,
blizzards and acts of nature;
      (2)   The intermittent disruption or disruption of the telephone circuit
beyond the control of the alarm company and/or alarm user;
      (3)   Electrical power disruption or failure;
      (4)   Alarms caused by a failure of the equipment at the communications
center; or
      (5)   Alarms caused by some outside stimulus beyond the control of the
alarm company or alarm holder. This does not include alarms that are too
sensitive.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm system that emits a signal at an alarm site that is
audible or visible from the exterior of a structure.
   PERSON. An individual responsible for the alarm site.
   REGISTRATION HOLDER. The person designated in the application (normally the
owner or the owner’s designee) who is responsible for responding to alarms and
giving access to the site, and who is responsible for proper maintenance and
operation of the alarm system and payment of fees.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All alarm systems operating within the city shall be registered with
the Police Department. Alarm systems operating within the city without proper
registration shall be deemed in violation of this chapter. Registration
application may be obtained at the Police Records Division.
   (B)   Each registration application must include the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the person who will be
the registration holder and be responsible for the proper maintenance and
operation of the alarm system and payment of fees assessed under this chapter;
      (2)   The classification of the alarm site as residential, or commercial;
      (3)   For each alarm system located at the alarm site, the purpose of the
alarm system, i.e., burglary, robbery or lifeline;
      (4)   When required by this chapter, certification from a person licensed
by the state to install or design systems, stating:
      (5)   The date of the installation of the alarm system;
      (6)   The current alarm company of the person performing or directly
supervising the installation or maintenance of the alarm system;
      (7)   The name, address and telephone number of all persons who may
respond to alarm notifications, to allow access to the premises, by means of
keys, combinations, security codes and the like;
      (8)   The name, physical address and telephone number of the home or
business where the alarm is located;
      (9)   The normal business hours, and normal times of entry and exit, when
applicable; and
      (10)   Other information required by the Chief of Police that is
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Any false information provided by an applicant for on the registration
application with the Chief of Police shall be sufficient cause for refusal to
authorize a registration or failure to promptly provide updates for changes in
registration information will result in a municipal ordinance fine of $50.
   (D)   An alarm registration cannot be transferred to another person. A
registration holder shall inform the Chief of Police or his or her
representative of any change that alters any information listed on the
registration application immediately.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.04 ALARM SERVICE TERMINATION.
   A registration holder shall notify the Chief of Police and County Central
Dispatch, within two business days, of termination of operation of an alarm
system.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.05 PROPER ALARM SYSTEMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   A registration holder or person in control of an alarm system shall:
      (1)   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarm notifications;
      (2)   Respond or cause his or her representative to appear at the
system’s location within a reasonable period of time when notified by the
County Central Dispatch to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system, to provide
access to the premises, or to provide security for the premises; and
      (3)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report.
   (B)   A person in control of a local alarm shall adjust the mechanism or
cause the mechanism to be adjusted so that an alarm signal will sound for no
longer than ten minutes after being activated.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.06 MANUAL RESET REQUIRED.
   A person in control of a local alarm or alarm system that causes an alarm
notification to be sent directly to the county’s Central Dispatch, shall adjust
the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be adjusted so that upon activation,
the system will not transmit another alarm signal without first being manually
reset.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.07 SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEWS.
   If there is reason to believe that an alarm system is not being used or
maintained in a manner that insures proper operation and suppresses false
alarms, the Chief of Police may require a conference with an alarm registration
holder and the individual or association responsible for maintenance of the
alarm system to review the circumstances of each false alarm.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
§ 99.08 FALSE ALARM FINES.
   (A)   The holder of an alarm registration or the person in control of an
alarm system shall be subject to fines for false alarms emitted from an alarm
system based upon the following schedule: each false alarm: $50 fine.
   (B)   Any person operating a non-registered alarm system will be subject to
a citation and assessment of a $50 municipal ordinance fine in addition to the
false alarm fine.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000; Ord. 2015.05, passed 6-2-
2015)
§ 99.09 APPEALS.
   Registration holders shall be entitled to a hearing if requested within five
working days of receiving a fine. The hearing shall be conducted by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative.
(Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2000-23, passed 8-8-2000)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   JUNK DEALERS
      
113.   SOLICITATION
      
114.   TAXICABS
      
115.   YARD OR GARAGE SALES; RUMMAGE SALES
      
116.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
117.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION
      
118.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
      
119.   ALCOHOL SALES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Levying of tax; imposition of additional taxes
   
110.03   License; payment of tax required
   
110.04   Licenses to be subject to the provisions of code
   
110.05   License required for each business
   
110.06   License required for each place of business
   
110.07   License nontransferable
   
110.08   Term of taxes and licenses
   
110.09   Display of license
   
110.10   Abatement of license tax
   
110.11   Schedule of license taxes
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provisions of this chapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning July 1 and ending June 1 next following.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(1997 Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 LEVYING OF TAX; IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   (A)   In addition to the tax on property there is hereby levied and
collected annually, or more often where provided for, a privilege license tax
on trades, professions, agencies, business operations, exhibitions, circuses
and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the
City Council from imposing from time to time, as it may see fit, such license
taxes as are not specifically herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing
the amount of any special license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the
businesses or acts licensed.
(1997 Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the city for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax required by this chapter and obtained
the license. For the purpose of this section, the opening of a place of
business or offering to sell followed by a single sale or the doing of any act
or thing in furtherance of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or
carrying on such business.
(1997 Code, § 110.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSES TO BE SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF CODE.
   All licenses are granted subject to the provisions of this code, existing
ordinances or those hereafter enacted.
(1997 Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing such tax. License taxes prescribed by various sections of
this chapter applicable to any business shall be cumulative except where
otherwise specifically provided.
(1997 Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse, store,
stall or stand, or other place of business, shall secure a separate license for
each such place of business, unless such places of business are contiguous to
each other, communicate directly with and open into each other, and are
operated as a unit. If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to
another, then a new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue
business under the original license is obtained from the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be a personal privilege
and shall not be transferable.
(1997 Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 TERM OF TAXES AND LICENSES.
   (A)   All taxes and licenses provided for and fixed in this chapter shall be
for 12 months, unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   The license tax for any business for which a license is applied for
and issued after January of any fiscal year shall be, for that fiscal year,
one-half of the annual rate.
(1997 Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, such license shall be kept wherever such business is being operated
and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal official.
(1997 Code, § 110.09)
§ 110.10 ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before the
end of the period for which such license was issued.
(1997 Code, § 110.10)
§ 110.11 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   Taxes levied. On the following trades, professions, agencies, business
operations and other subjects herein set out, the following taxes shall be
levied and collected.
   (B)   Businesses not on list. Any business not shown on this list will be
referred to Schedule B of the North Carolina State Revenue Act (G.S. §§ 105-33
et seq.), and the Business License Taxation Schedule for North Carolina cities
and towns prepared by the North Carolina League of Municipalities.
Type of Business License Fee
Type of Business                    License Fee
Adult entertainment business        $250
Adult entertainer                   $250
Beer and wine retail licenses*
On-premises malt beverage           $15
Off-premises malt beverage          $5
On-premises unfortified wine, on-   $15
premises fortified wine, or both
Off-premises unfortified wine, off- $10
premises fortified wine, or both
Animal grooming                     $33
Auto rentals                        $33
Bag ice dealer                      $13
Beer and wine wholesaler license    $37.50
Bingo                               $33
Cabinet makers                      $33
City licensed contractor            $50
Cleaning service                    $33
Cotton gin                          $66
Dance studios                       $33
Day care                            $66
                                    $2,000 for the first five machines/$1,000
                                    for each additional machine; annual
Electronic gaming operation         license fee for electronic gaming
                                    operations not to exceed $80,000 per
                                    location
Electrical/city license             $100
Electrical/general                  $60
Fitness club                        $33
Garage                              $10
Gas wholesale dealer                $66
Heating/cooling contractor          $50
HC/city licensed contractor         $100
HC and electrical contractor        $100
HC and general contractor           $60
HC plumber/city contracted          $150
HC, electrical, plumber             $150
Ice manufacturer                    $66
Karate instructor                   $33
Launderette                         $33
Locksmith                           $3
Metallic cartridges (bullets)       $6
Miniature golf                      $33
Mobile home sales                   $33
Mobile home setup                   $50
Movers                              $46
Municipal taxi/limo tax             $15 per vehicle
Newspaper publisher                 $33
Other retail                        $20
Paper manufacture                   $100
Plumber/elect/city license          $110
Plumber/HC and general              $110
Plumbing contractor                 $50
Plumbing/electrical                 $100
Plumbing/HC contractor              $100
Plumbing/city license               $100
Plumbing/general contractor         $60
Print shop                          $26
Professional service                $66
Radio/television dealer             $6
Recycling centers                   $33
Rental service                      $33
Repair shop                         $20
Riding devices                      $6
Sewing room                         $66
Storage warehouse                   $33
Tanning booth                       $33
Taxicab                             $20
Towing service                      $33
Upholstery shop                     $33
Vending machines                    $4
Welding shop                        $33
*Tax on additional license - The tax stated above is the tax for the first
license issued to a person. The tax for each additional license of the same
type issued to that person for the same year is 110% of the base license tax,
that increase to apply progressively for each additional license.
 
   (C)   Miscellaneous business. Every person engaged in any business not
specifically taxed herein and not exempt by state law or by ordinance shall pay
a license tax of $25 per annum.
   (D)   Contractors and contracting. Any person accepting or offering to
accept orders or contracts for doing any work on or in any building or
structure, requiring the use of paint, stone, brick, mortar, wood, cement,
structural iron or steel, sheet iron, galvanized iron, metallic piping, tin,
lead or other metal or any other building material, or who shall accept or
offer to accept contracts to do any paving, curbing or other work on sidewalks,
streets, alleys or highways, public or private property, using asphalt, brick,
stone, cement, concrete, wood or any composition, or shall accept or offer to
accept an order for or contract to excavate earth, rock or other material for
foundation or any other purpose, or who shall accept or offer to accept, an
order or contract to construct any sewer of stone, brick, terra cotta or other
material, shall be deemed a contractor, and shall pay a license tax to the city
in the amount of $25. This includes: air conditioning and heating; brick
contracting, stone and other masonry; cement; dredging, sand and gravel: floor
scraping or finishing; interior decorations; paint and paper decorating;
plastering; steamfitting or gas fittings; road, street, bridge, sidewalk, curb
and gutter; sewer, digging and drilling wells; structural metal; tile, glass,
flooring, floor covering; wrecking, moving, excavating.
(1997 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2012-10, passed - -; Ord 2013-06,
passed 5-14-2013; Ord. 2012-14, passed 7-10-2012; Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-21-
2015)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Carnivals
Poolrooms and Bowling Alleys
   
111.15   Bowling alleys, Sunday hours regulated
   
111.16   Poolroom operator’s application
   
111.17   Poolrooms, hours and days of operation
   
111.18   Presence of minors in poolroom
   
111.19   Exemptions
Public Dances
   
111.30   Definition
   
111.31   Public dance halls prohibited
   
111.32   Permit required
   
111.33   Application; contents
   
111.34   Investigation and report
   
111.35   Action by City Council
   
111.36   Revocation of permit
   
111.37   Booths and lighting
   
111.38   Music
   
111.39   Hours of termination
   
111.40   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 CARNIVALS.
   Carnivals located within the corporate limits of the city may be permitted
according to the terms and conditions of a special event permit as defined in
the Roanoke Rapids Land Use Ordinance, adopted by reference in Title XV.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 6-24-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
POOLROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 111.15 BOWLING ALLEYS, SUNDAY HOURS REGULATED.
   Bowling alleys shall be permitted to operate on Sundays between the hours of
1:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(1997 Code, § 111.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 POOLROOM OPERATOR’S APPLICATION.
   Upon written application, any person over 21 years old and of whose
qualifications the City Council approves in a meeting duly assembled, may open,
maintain and operate a billiard or poolroom within the corporate limits of the
city after first paying the required license or privilege tax therefor and upon
complying with the rules and regulations governing billiard or poolrooms herein
set out and hereafter prescribed and promulgated by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 111.11)
§ 111.17 POOLROOMS, HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION.
   All poolrooms shall be closed to the public, tables cleared and covered and
all employees and customers out of the poolrooms within the city not later than
12:00 midnight, each Monday through Saturday.
(1997 Code, § 111.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18 PRESENCE OF MINORS IN POOLROOM.
   (A)   Minors under 18 years of age. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, it shall be unlawful for any person owning, managing or operating a
billiard room to allow any minor under the age of 18 years to enter the
billiard room except for the transaction of business. It shall be unlawful for
any such minor who is in a billiard room for the transaction of business to
remain therein after the business has been transacted, and it shall be unlawful
for the owner, manager or operator of the billiard room to allow such minor to
thereafter remain in the billiard room.
   (B)   Minors between 16 and 18 and under 16 years of age.
      (1)   Any person owning, managing or operating a billiard room may, in
his or her discretion, allow minors between the ages of 16 and 18 years to play
or watch the play of billiards in the billiard room when:
         (a)   No alcoholic beverage is sold or consumed in the billiard room
or in any other area or place accessible from the billiard room;
         (b)   The interior of the billiard room is lighted throughout at a
level of 40 footcandles;
         (c)   No partitions, other than those for toilet facilities, are
maintained in the billiard room; and
         (d)   No window in the billiard room is permanently covered or
otherwise obstructed. The minor shall be solely responsible for establishing
his or her age. Unless the foregoing provisions of this section are complied
with, it shall be unlawful for any person owning, managing or operating a
billiard room to permit any minor between the ages of 16 and 18 years to enter
the billiard room.
      (2)   Any person owning, managing or operating a billiard room may, in
his or her discretion, allow minors under the age of 16 years to play or watch
the play of billiards in a billiard room under the same conditions and
circumstances minors between the ages of 16 and 18 years are allowed to play or
watch the play of billiards in a billiard room when each minor is accompanied
by one of his or her parents or person in loco parentis or legal guardian. The
person accompanying a minor under the age of 16 years shall be solely
responsible for establishing the age of the minor and the relationship of the
minor to such person. Unless the foregoing provisions of this division are
complied with, it shall be unlawful for any person owning, managing or
operating a billiard room to permit any minor under the age of 16 years to
enter the billiard room.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accompany a minor under the
age of 16 years in a billiard room unless such person is a parent or person in
loco parentis or legal guardian of the minor. It shall be unlawful for a
parent, person in loco parentis or legal guardian to permit his or her child
who is under the age of 16 years to enter a billiard room unless the child is
accompanied by such parent, person or guardian. It shall be unlawful for a
parent, person in loco parentis or legal guardian, having accompanied his or
her child in a billiard room, to leave the billiard room without the child. It
shall be unlawful for any minor who is under the age of 16 years to enter a
billiard room without one of his or her parents or the person in loco parentis
of the minor or the minor’s legal guardian. It shall be unlawful for any person
owning, managing or operating a billiard room to knowingly permit any person to
violate the provisions of this division (B)(3).
(1997 Code, § 111.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.18 shall not apply to single coin-operated pool tables located in only one
location where no alcoholic beverages are sold.
(1997 Code, § 111.14)
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 111.30 DEFINITION
   For the purpose of this subchapter, PUBLIC DANCE shall mean any form of
entertainment or amusement at which dancing is permitted and the privilege of
dancing is dependent upon the payment of a paid admission, cover charge,
minimum charge or any other payment of money or thing of value.
(1997 Code, § 111.25)
§ 111.31 PUBLIC DANCE HALLS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any public dance hall in the
city.
(1997 Code, § 111.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person
to have, hold or conduct a public dance within the city unless and until a
permit therefor has been granted by the City Council as provided in this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 111.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.33 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Applicants for a permit under this subchapter shall file with the City
Manager a sworn application in writing addressed to the City Council on a form
to be furnished by the City Manager, which form shall require, but not be
limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Address of dance hall and the date and time that dancing will be
permitted at such address;
      (3)   The charge that is to be made for the privilege of dancing or
admission at such time and place;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
crime or charged with the violation of any crime involving moral turpitude or
the violation of any laws or ordinances involving the sale or consumption of
drugs or alcoholic beverages and, if so, a detailed statement of the nature and
disposition of the charges; and
      (5)   A statement that the applicant will furnish the City Manager with
such additional information pertaining to the applicant and application as may
be requested by the City Manager.
   (B)   Such application shall be filed with the City Manager at least two
weeks prior to the regular meeting of the City Council preceding the date on
which the proposed public dance is to be had, held or conducted, and such
application at the time of filing with the City Manager shall be accompanied by
the payment of a $25 fee to defray the cost of investigating the application or
issuing the permit, and such fee shall be retained by the city regardless of
whether or not a permit is issued pursuant to this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 111.28)
§ 111.34 INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   (A)   The City Manager shall make or cause to be made an investigation of
the applicant and application, which shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the character and morals of the person or persons requesting such permit
and the entertainers or orchestra who propose to perform at the public dance
for which a permit is sought. The City Manager shall also require that the
premises on which the public dance is proposed to be held or conducted be
inspected by the Fire Chief for compliance with all local and state fire laws;
the Building Inspector for compliance with State Building Code regulations; and
the appropriate county health officials regarding the availability and
condition of restroom facilities of the premises.
   (B)   The City Manager shall present the application with a report of his or
her investigation to the City Council at the next meeting of the City Council
prior to the date on which the public dance is proposed to be had, held or
conducted. The report of the investigation of the City Manager may be written
or oral in his or her discretion; provided, however, if the application for the
permit is subsequently denied by the City Council, the report of the City
Manager shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
(1997 Code, § 111.29)
§ 111.35 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the application and report of the City Manager as
herein above provided, the City Council shall review the same. Unless the City
Council finds as a fact that the granting of the permit will be contrary to the
health, safety, welfare or morals of the residents of the city, the permit
shall be granted; otherwise, it shall be denied; provided, however, that if the
application for a permit is denied, the City Council shall cause to be recorded
in the minutes of the meeting the facts found by it supporting its decision
that the granting of the permit would be contrary to the health, safety,
welfare or morals of the residents of the city.
   (B)   The granting of the permit by the City Council may be conditioned upon
the following:
      (1)   The applicant make a payment of $25 for the permit, which shall be
issued by the City Clerk;
      (2)   The applicant furnish adequate police protection, as recommended by
the Chief of Police, and the payment of such fees as may be necessary to hire
such personnel, approved by the Chief of Police, as the Chief of Police deems
necessary to supervise and maintain law and order and public safety at such
dance; and
      (3)   Such other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the city for
the protection of the health, safety, welfare or morals of the residents of the
city.
(1997 Code, § 111.30)
§ 111.36 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any person operating a public dance in violation of this subchapter shall be
subject to having the permit for such dance revoked by the City Council. Such
permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police, Police Lieutenant or police duty
officer after the owner or operator has been notified by such officer that the
dance is not being properly operated in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 111.31)
§ 111.37 BOOTHS AND LIGHTING.
   Booths for patrons shall be so designed and arranged and the lighting in
such dance hall shall be installed and operated at all times in a manner that
permits the conduct of patrons to be readily observed by police officers upon
their initial entry into such dance hall.
(1997 Code, § 111.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.38 MUSIC.
   Music machines, orchestras or any other devices producing music for dancing
shall not be played in such a manner or at such times during the day or night
so as to cause a public nuisance. All such dances or amusements shall comply
with all other ordinances of the city regarding the hours and days during which
the playing of loud music is prohibited.
(1997 Code, § 111.33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.39 HOURS OF TERMINATION.
   (A)   All dances had, held or conducted pursuant to permits issued under
this subchapter shall terminate on or prior to the following hours:
      (1)   1:00 a.m. on Monday through Friday; and
      (2)   12:00 midnight on Saturday.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for a dance to commence on Sunday.
(111.34 Code, § 111.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.40 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a dance which is
sponsored by and held on the premises of a bona fide private club for which
admission is governed by membership including the payment of dues, nor shall
they apply to dances conducted by Grade A restaurants when conducted in a
private room if such restaurant has a seating capacity for 100 or more persons.
Except as hereinafter provided, the provisions of this subchapter shall not
apply to dances or other amusements actually promoted and managed by any bona
fide civic, patriotic or fraternal club, church, private or public school, or
any other charitable organization where the net proceeds derived from the same
are used exclusively for such civic, patriotic or fraternal club, school or
organization and the charitable purposes of such organization; provided,
however, that the mere sponsorship of a dance or other amusement by such civic,
patriotic or fraternal club, school or other organization shall not be deemed
to exempt such dance or other amusement as provided in this section, but the
exemption shall apply only when the dance or amusement is actually managed and
conducted by such civic, patriotic or fraternal club, school or other
organization and the proceeds are used as hereinbefore required; and provided
further that such civic, patriotic or fraternal club, school or other
organization shall apply to the City Manager and secure a charity permit, which
shall show upon its face that the applicant is exempt from this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 111.35)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Daily reports required
   
112.03   Register of purchases
   
112.04   Right of police to inspect
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, JUNK DEALERS or KEEPERS OF JUNK SHOPS shall
be all persons dealing in or purchasing old castings, iron or metals, or loose
cotton, hides, rags, bones and tallow.
(1997 Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 DAILY REPORTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of such dealers to report their names and places of
business to the Chief of Police, who shall register their names and places of
business in a book kept for that purpose. It shall also be the duty of such
junk dealers to furnish the Chief of Police with a daily report showing a
complete and full list of all articles purchased since the last report, showing
the original character of same, the date of purchase and the name of the person
from whom purchased.
(1997 Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 REGISTER OF PURCHASES.
   All junk dealers doing business in the city shall register all articles
purchased by them, with the date of purchase, description of each article, and
the name of the party from whom it was purchased; and every article purchased
by them shall remain in their shop five days before being shipped, and shall
not be mutilated, defaced or changed in form in any manner.
(1997 Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 RIGHT OF POLICE TO INSPECT.
   It shall be the duty of all junk dealers doing business in the city to admit
the Chief of Police or any police officer of the city into their places of
business at any time admittance may be demanded to inspect their books and
stocks of goods.
(1997 Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: SOLICITATION
Section
   
113.01   Soliciting alms; charitable solicitation
§ 113.01 SOLICITING ALMS; CHARITABLE SOLICITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit alms or financial
assistance for himself or herself or on behalf of any charitable institution,
association or organization from house to house or upon any public street or
thoroughfare or sidewalk within the city, without having first obtained a
written permit from the Police Chief or his or her designee.
   (B)   The permit shall state its expiration date on the face thereof. The
permit shall be carried by each person soliciting alms or donations while
engaged in that activity.
   (C)   With regard to solicitation of alms by standing in a public roadway,
state law prohibits such activity unless authorized to do so by the local
authority having jurisdiction over the roadway and the solicitation is made on
behalf of an organization defined as charitable by the standards of the United
States Internal Revenue Service. Accordingly, the Police Chief or his or her
designee is hereby authorized to issue a permit to a qualified charitable
organization for only one solicitation period on a public roadway per calendar
year. Such permit shall be valid for up to two consecutive days as specified in
the permit during the daylight hours only.
   (D)   Each person soliciting alms or donations from house to house or upon
any public street or thoroughfare or sidewalk within the city shall be required
to wear a reflective safety vest provided by the individual or their charitable
organization.
   (E)   The Police Chief or his or her designee is authorized to immediately
revoke any permit issued hereunder upon a determination that the manner of
solicitation is being conducted with disregard to public safety.
   (F)   This section is enacted by the city to help prevent fraud and
financial crimes and for general public safety. It is not aimed at preventing
or limiting solicitation of money for political purposes nor limiting freedom
of speech or religion.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
Taxicab Licenses; Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
   
114.015   License required
   
114.016   Certificate of public convenience and necessity required
   
114.017   Application for certificate
   
114.018   Determination and investigation; factors to consider
   
114.019   Powers and duties of Council in regard to issuance of certificates
   
114.020   Certificates as franchises; term; renewal
   
114.021   Failure to begin operations
   
114.022   Transfer of certificate
   
114.023   Substitution of vehicles
   
114.024   Revocation of certificate; procedure
   
114.025   Rights of persons engaged in business of operating or authorized to
operate a taxicab
Taxicab Driver’s Permit
   
114.040   Permit required
   
114.041   Application
   
114.042   Fingerprints and photographs
   
114.043   Investigation and report
   
114.044   Issuance
   
114.045   Renewal; fees
   
114.046   Revocation
   
114.047   Display of permit
Standards of Operation
   
114.060   Application of provisions
   
114.061   Passengers
   
114.062   Duty of driver to attend vehicle
   
114.063   Drivers’ records of calls
   
114.064   Accident reports
   
114.065   Bond or insurance policy required
   
114.066   Parking on city streets
Vehicle Requirements
   
114.080   Periodic inspection
   
114.081   Removal from service pending correction of defects
   
114.082   Model year of vehicle
   
114.083   Size, type; taximeter
   
114.084   Condition; repair of taxicab
   
114.085   Colors of taxicabs
   
114.086   Signs
Rates and Charges
   
114.100   Posting and displaying in taxicabs
   
114.101   Failure to pay for taxi service
 
   
114.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. Certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
board licensing the operation of a taxicab.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab.
   OWNER. Any person to whom a certificate of public convenience and necessity
for the operation of a taxicab has been issued.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue or highway within the city limits.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating six or fewer passengers and the driver
operating upon any street, on call or demand, accepting or soliciting
passengers indiscriminately for hire between such points along such streets or
highways as may be directed by the passenger or passengers, so being
transported.
   TAXICAB DRIVER’S PERMIT. A taxicab driver’s permit granted to a driver, as
provided in this chapter.
   TAXIMETER. A machine adopted automatically to calculate at a predetermined
rate and to register the charge for hire of a taxicab, and such charges shall
be indicated by means of figures.
(1997 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
TAXICAB LICENSES; CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 114.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged in the operation of a taxicab business within the
corporate limits of the city shall apply to and secure from the City Tax
Collector an annual license for the privilege of operating each such taxicab
and shall pay for such annual license such sum for each taxicab operated as
shall be determined by City Council.
(1997 Code, § 114.10) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.016 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the city without first having secured from City Council a
certificate of convenience and necessity therefor as set forth in this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 114.11) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.017 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any person desiring a certificate of convenience and necessity for the
operation of a taxicab shall file with the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, an application therefor, on forms provided by the Chief of Police.
Every application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
accompanied by the sum of $50 to defray the cost of the investigation to be
made of the applicant.
   (B)   The application will contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation, or
proposed firm or corporation, and in the event the applicant is an existing
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, along with the
names and addresses of all stockholders or proposed stockholders;
      (2)   The number of vehicles for which a certificate of public
convenience and necessity is desired;
      (3)   The make, type, year of manufacture and passenger capacity of each
taxicab for which application for a certificate of public convenience and
necessity is made;
      (4)   The names, addresses, driver’s license information for all taxicab
drivers;
      (5)   Proof and a copy of liability insurance as in such amounts set
forth in this chapter as required by the state with an insurance company
licensed to do business in the state;
      (6)   A statement of experience of the applicant in conducting a taxicab
business; and
      (7)   A schedule of proposed rates to be charged.
(1997 Code, § 114.12) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Liability insurance coverage required, see G.S. § 20-280
§ 114.018 DETERMINATION AND INVESTIGATION; FACTORS TO CONSIDER.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application, the City Council shall determine
whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the issuance of a
certificate.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate, the Council, or a committee thereof, shall make a full and
complete investigation of all facts and may, if it so desires, subpoena
witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of Police or any other officer
or employee of this city.
   (C)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the issuance of a certificate, the Council shall, among other things, take into
consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or additional taxicab services within the city;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs operated at the time of the filing of the
application and the demand for increased service, if any, and whether or not
the safe use of the streets by the public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will
be preserved, and whether or not adequate provision has been made for off-
street parking of such taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Such other relevant facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
(1997 Code, § 114.13) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.019 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL IN REGARD TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES.
   The requisite determination having been made under §
114.018(A) and (B), the Council shall have power and it shall be its duty to
order certain certificates issued or to refuse to issue certain certificates or
to issue certificates for a partial exercise only of the privileges sought and
may attach to the exercise of the rights granted only by such certificates such
terms and conditions as, in the judgment of the Council, the public convenience
and necessity may require.
(1997 Code, § 114.14) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.020 CERTIFICATES AS FRANCHISES; TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the city for the
operation of taxicabs within the city, subject to the provisions of this
chapter, for one year unless a shorter period of time is specified in the
certificate.
   (B)   Once issued a certificate of convenience and necessity shall remain in
full force and effect without re- issuance.
(1997 Code, § 114.15) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.021 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant and such applicant shall fail,
in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
within 60 days after the date of the certificate, then such certificate shall
become null and void.
(1997 Code, § 114.16) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.022 TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate shall not be transferable without the consent of the City
Council. Application for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same manner
as an application for a certificate. The proceedings upon such application for
a transfer shall be the same as those described for the issuance of a
certificate; except, that the question of public convenience and necessity need
not be proved.
(1997 Code, § 114.17) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.023 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by appropriate
endorsement thereon by the Chief of Police, substitute another vehicle or other
vehicles for the vehicle or vehicles for which the certificate was granted. In
such instances, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to
such substitute vehicle or vehicles; providing, however, the vehicle or
vehicles substituted shall be approved by the Chief of Police or by a person
designated by him or her for such purpose.
(1997 Code, § 114.18) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.024 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time revoke any certificates issued by
authority of this subchapter for any one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in
such manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by the
provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city and as required by G.S.
§ 20-280;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the city taxes or license fees imposed upon such
taxicabs and related property both real and personal;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city relative to traffic
and safety; conviction of a felony; or violation of any federal or state
statute or city ordinance relating to the possession or sale of intoxicating
liquors; or violations of any federal or state statute or city ordinance
relating to prostitution; or any federal or state statute or city ordinance
relating to the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs; or repeated
violations of traffic laws or ordinances; or becomes a habitual user of
intoxicating drugs; or convicted of DWI;
      (6)   Failure to report motor vehicle accidents involving taxicab;
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other provisions of this code or ordinances of the city or state laws relating
to the operation of taxicabs; and
      (8)   Taxicab operator/owner has made a false or misleading statement on
his or her application.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked by the Council until the owner has had
at least five days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the
charges against him or her, and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after
the hearing, it is found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the
offenses listed in division (A) above, the Council may revoke the certificate
or condition a revocation upon compliance with its order within any time fixed
by it.
(1997 Code, § 114.19) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.025 RIGHTS OF PERSONS ENGAGED IN BUSINESS OF OPERATING OR AUTHORIZED TO
OPERATE A TAXICAB.
   All persons engaged in the business of operating taxicabs or authorized to
operate taxicabs shall be entitled to a certificate for the number of taxicabs
operated by them; provided, that any person operating a taxicab business whose
right to operate such has been revoked or withdrawn shall not be entitled to a
certificate unless and until the provisions of this chapter have been complied
with, and such certificate has been issued by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 114.20) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
TAXICAB DRIVER’S PERMIT
§ 114.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab for hire within the corporate limits of
the city unless he or she shall first have secured a taxi driving permit from
the Chief of Police.
(1997 Code, § 114.30) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.041 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring a taxicab driving permit shall file an application
therefor with the Chief of Police upon a blank furnished by the city for such
purpose and shall, among other things, state: name; address; physical
description; former employer; court record and state chauffeur’s license
number. Such application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant. A
physical performed by a qualified doctor is also required.
(1997 Code, § 114.31) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.042 FINGERPRINTS AND PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Any person filing an application shall appear at the office of the Police
Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken and
photograph made, both of which shall constitute a part of his or her
application.
(1997 Code, § 114.32) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.043 INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   Upon the filing of an application, the Chief of Police shall investigate the
facts stated in the application in question and shall report his or her
findings and recommendations to the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 114.33) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.044 ISSUANCE.
   If the Chief of Police finds that a person filing an application has not
been convicted of a felony, violation of any federal or state statutes relating
to the use, possession or sale of intoxicating liquors, any federal or state
statutes relating to prostitution, any federal or state statutes relating to
the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs, that such applicant is a citizen
of the United States and has not been convicted of DWI or violated any
provisions of this code or ordinances, then the Chief of Police shall issue a
taxi driving permit to such applicant.
(1997 Code, § 114.34) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.045 RENEWAL; FEES.
   A fee of $50 shall be charged for each original taxi driving permit issued
and for each renewal. No refunds will be made.
(1997 Code, § 114.35) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.046 REVOCATION.
   At any time after the issuance of a taxicab driver’s permit, the City
Council may revoke such permit if the person holding such permit is convicted
of: a felony; a violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors; a violation of any federal or state
statute relating to the use, possession or sale of narcotic drugs; repeated
violations of laws or provisions of this code or other ordinances of the city
relating to traffic; a violation of any state or federal statute relating to
prostitution; or becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic
drugs.
(1997 Code, § 114.36) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.047 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   The driver of every taxicab shall at all times while driving such taxicab
prominently post and display in the taxicab in question so as to be visible to
the passengers therein the taxicab driver’s permit issued to him or her.
(1997 Code, § 114.37) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 114.060 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The general regulations set out in this subchapter shall apply to the
operation of all taxicabs within the city.
(1997 Code, § 114.50) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.061 PASSENGERS.
   More than one passenger shall be transported in any taxicab at one time
without the consent of the person first engaging it, provided the first person
is not unduly inconvenienced in time, distance or charge. No nonpaying
passenger shall ride in any taxicab except officers or employees of the owner
upon necessary business or a police officer engaged in the performance of his
duty.
(1997 Code, § 114.51) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.062 DUTY OF DRIVER TO ATTEND VEHICLE.
   Every taxicab while in operation for the solicitation or transportation of
passengers shall be attended by the driver at all times except when such driver
is actually engaged in loading or unloading.
(1997 Code, § 114.52) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.063 DRIVERS’ RECORDS OF CALLS.
   Every owner shall keep a record of the origin and destination of all calls.
It shall be the duty of all drivers and employees of the owner to report such
calls. Such records shall be open at all times to the inspection of the Police
Department and shall be preserved for a period of not less than 90 days.
(1997 Code, § 114.53) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.064 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The owner shall report not less than weekly to the Chief of Police, in
writing, every accident or collision of any character, however slight, in which
any taxicab which he operated has been in any way involved.
(1997 Code, § 114.54) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.065 BOND OR INSURANCE POLICY REQUIRED.
   Every owner operating in the city shall file with the City Clerk a policy of
insurance with some insurance company duly licensed by the State Insurance
Commission to do business in the state or provide a surety bond approved by the
board with solvent surety, conditioned on such owner’s responding in damages
for any liability incurred on account of any injury to persons or damage to
property resulting from the operation of any taxicab operated by him or her in
the following amounts: $100,000 for death or injury of any one person; $300,000
for death or injury of two or more persons in any one accident; and $50,000 for
property damage in any one accident.
(1997 Code, § 114.55) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.066 PARKING ON CITY STREETS.
   Every owner of a taxicab shall comply with all parking regulations as
pursuant to traffic regulations of the city code and state statutes.
(1997 Code, § 114.56) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979; Ord. passed - -)
VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.080 PERIODIC INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every taxicab for which a certificate has been issued under this
chapter shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Chief of Police or by a
person designated by him or her for such purpose.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or of the designated
person to inspect every such taxicab every 12 months, together with such
additional inspections as may be deemed necessary or advisable.
(1997 Code, § 114.70) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979; Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.081 REMOVAL FROM SERVICE PENDING CORRECTION OF DEFECTS.
   If, upon inspection, it is ascertained that any taxicab is in a dangerous,
defective or unsafe condition or is not in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, the Chief of Police, or person designated by him or her, may have
the taxicab removed from service pending the correction of such condition and
may make such requirements in regard to such vehicle as may be deemed proper.
(1997 Code, § 114.71) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.082 MODEL YEAR OF VEHICLE.
   No taxicab that has been in service five years in the taxi business shall be
certified for operation within the city by the Police Chief unless approved by
the Chief of Police to be safe to carry passengers in such vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 114.72) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979; Ord. passed - -)
§ 114.083 SIZE, TYPE; TAXIMETER.
   (A)   Every taxicab for which a certificate is issued under this chapter
shall be of the enclosed or sedan type, with four doors, at least two seats and
of not less than five-passenger capacity and shall be approved by the Chief of
Police or by a person designated by him or her for such purpose.
   (B)   Every taxicab shall be equipped with a single-tariff taximeter of a
type and design approved by the Chief of Police.
(1997 Code, § 114.73) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.084 CONDITION; REPAIR OF TAXICAB.
   Every taxicab for which a certificate is issued under this chapter shall be
at all times in good repair when in operation and shall not be withdrawn from
service for repairs exceeding ten days, without special written permission of
the Chief of Police.
(1997 Code, § 114.74) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.085 COLORS OF TAXICABS.
   Each owner may apply to the Chief of Police and request that a particular
color or combination of colors be assigned to his taxicab.
(1997 Code, § 114.75) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.086 SIGNS.
   Every taxicab shall have signs and a light showing that such vehicle is a
taxicab.
(1997 Code, § 114.76) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 114.100 POSTING AND DISPLAYING IN TAXICABS.
   Every taxicab operated within the corporate limits of the city shall have at
all times prominently posted and displayed in such taxicab, so as to be visible
to the passengers therein, the rates or fares for the use of such taxicab.
(1997 Code, § 114.86) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
§ 114.101 FAILURE TO PAY FOR TAXI SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to accept transportation in any taxicab
and upon arrival at the desired destination to fail, refuse or neglect to pay
the legal fare therefor as indicated by the taximeter installed in such
taxicab.
(1997 Code, § 114.87) (Ord. passed 1-9-1979) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   All taxi driving permits issued to drivers under the provisions of §
114.040 through 114.047 shall be renewed on or before July 1 of each year.
Failure of a driver to renew such permit will result in a $75 penalty.
(1997 Code, § 114.35) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-9-1979)
CHAPTER 115: YARD OR GARAGE SALES; RUMMAGE SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Rules and regulations
   
115.03   Exceptions
Rummage Sales
   
115.15   Permit required
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE refers to
a display and sale from a residence or residential property of personal
property which has been owned or previously used.
   (B)   The term YARD SALE or GARAGE SALE does not include the mere incidental
sale of one or two items of personal property when such sale is not part of a
general sale of a number of items of personal property.
(1997 Code, § 115.01) (Ord. passed 4-12-1983)
§ 115.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All yard sales, garage sales or other sales of merchandise from residential
premises shall be subject to the following rules and regulations.
   (A)   No one shall accept or take in for sale, any goods from any commercial
business or enterprise on a consignment basis for sale in a “yard sale.”
   (B)   Two off-site directional signs may be permitted, but only during the
time the sale is being conducted. The resident conducting the sale is
responsible for the removal of all advertising signs at the close of the sale.
No signs shall be displayed for longer than 72 hours. No freestanding signs may
be placed in the public rights-of- way.
   (C)   Not more than two such sales per year shall be held at the premises if
occupied by the same family or any member of such family. No single sale shall
be conducted for longer than two consecutive weekends or 72 hours, whichever is
the lesser.
   (D)   Yard sales or garage sales may be conducted during daylight hours
only.
(1997 Code, § 115.02) (Ord. passed 4-12-1983) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to or affect persons
selling goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent jurisdiction or
persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public officials,
or to estate sales.
(1997 Code, § 115.03) (Ord. passed 4-12-1983)
RUMMAGE SALES
§ 115.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any nonprofit organization with chapters in the
city to conduct a rummage sale without first applying for and obtaining a
permit from the City Manager.
(1997 Code, § 115.15) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $100 per day.
         (a)   A citation for said civil penalty shall be issued by a police
officer.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours
of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175.
(1997 Code, § 115.99)
CHAPTER 116: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Application for licenses
   
116.04   Application procedures
   
116.05   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
116.06   License; posting and display
   
116.07   Inspections
   
116.08   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
116.09   License renewal
   
116.10   Transfer of license
   
116.11   Locational restrictions
   
116.12   Nonconforming uses
   
116.13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
116.14   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
116.15   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
116.16   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos and live performances
   
116.17   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
116.18   Signage
   
116.19   Massages or baths administered by a person of the opposite sex
   
116.20   Hours of operation
   
116.21   Exemptions
   
116.22   Notices
   
116.23   Injunction
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the city. Adult
establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and experiences that are
relevant to the state have shown that lower property values and increased crime
rates tend to accompany and are brought about by adult establishments. The City
Council finds that regulations of these uses is necessary to ensure that these
adverse secondary effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding
neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the
health, safety or welfare and the peace and dignity of the city. Regulation to
achieve these purposes can be accomplished by the procedures set forth
hereinafter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(1997 Code, § 116.01) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section or other periodicals, videotapes, compact
discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other imaging
medium); and
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that on a regular, sporadic or transient basis features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities;”
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;”
or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter
center or any other sexually oriented business that is similar in nature or
intent to any other adult entertainment business as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This shall apply
whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic or transient
basis.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation of patrons therein.
   CITY. City of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina.
   CITY MANAGER. Chief administrative city official. The CITY MANAGER is
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as
a patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in floor areas
occupied by the business by more than 10%, as the floor areas exist at the time
of the effective date of this chapter.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment
and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or
an independent contractor.
   EROTIC. Refers to any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate or similar reference, act, service or deed.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration and whose advertisements,
promotions or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   ESTABLISHMENT Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   EXOTIC CAR WASH. A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing service
performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   EXOTIC MAID SERVICE. Any cleaning service for a residence or business where
the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the State of North Carolina,
whether situated within the city or not, that provides care, training,
education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14
years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or
adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a
day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or
charges for the services it offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including but not
limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways and
parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
116.04 of this chapter.
   SEMI-NUDE. The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any businesses or enterprises that have as one
of their principal business purposes or as a significant portion of their
business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
(1997 Code, § 116.02) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Business license.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the city unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the city. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the city or has expired.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the city.
      (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall
be prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that such
business was not licensed.
   (B)   Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the city, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
such person’s license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the city or has
expired.
   (C)   License classification and fees.
      (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and establishment by the City Council. Payment
shall be made by certified or cashier’s check or money order. No application
shall be considered complete until all such fees are paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall be issued for a specific location and/or person
and shall be nonrefundable and non-transferable.
      (3)   The license fees shall be set as by the City Council from time to
time and be recorded in the City Council meeting minutes at which they are set.
(1997 Code, § 116.03) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adult establishment business license. All persons desiring to secure a
license to conduct, operate or maintain an adult establishment under the
provisions of this chapter shall make a verified application to the City
Manager. All applications shall be submitted in the name of the person
proposing to conduct, operate or maintain the adult establishment. All
applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the City Manager and
shall require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, Social Security number, driver’s
license number and a recent photograph of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the
adult entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the
owner of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the
business address and the county parcel identification number on which the
business resides.
         (b)   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land in division (a) is/are not also the owner(s) of the establishment, then
the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract
or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or
proposed owners of the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and
possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose
of the operation of an adult establishment.
         (c)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified; the property
lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school, library or
public park or playground, licensed daycare center, entertainment business that
is oriented primarily towards children within 1,500 feet of the property to be
certified and any dwelling or residential zoning district within 500 feet to be
certified. For the purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing
or established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
         (d)   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
City Manager with the original application or previous renewals thereof remain
correct and current.
      (3)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, Social
Security numbers and dates of births of the owner, if the applicant is a sole
proprietorship; and the names, residence addresses for the past two years,
Social Security numbers and dates of birth of all partners, if the applicant is
a partnership; and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation;
      (4)   (a)   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or from
each corporate officer, director, or 10% shareholder that each such person has
not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on:
            1.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
            2.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application.
         (b)   Where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state or any
other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other
state.
      (5)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
existence issued by the North Carolina Secretary of State;
      (6)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments;
      (7)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a city police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
City Police Department; and
      (8)   (a)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant(s) consents
to investigation of his or her background by the city to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant(s) agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her
expense, a criminal history from the Clerk of Court of any county in which the
applicant has resided during the five preceding years.
         (b)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division (A)(8) shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall
not be processed until complete.
   (B)   Adult entertainer license. All persons desiring to secure a license
under the provisions of this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified
application to the City Manager. All applications shall be made in person to
the City Manager or his or her designee. All applications shall be submitted on
a form supplied by the City Manager and shall require the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number, date and
place of birth, Social Security number and any stage names or nicknames used in
entertaining;
      (2)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the applicant
intends to work as an entertainer;
      (3)   A statement from the applicant that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted from
prosecution on:
         (a)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
         (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state
of any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or laws of any
other state.
      (4)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the City Manager or
his or her designee and the City Manager shall have the photographs processed
and retain the copies;
      (5)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a city police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
City Police Department.
      (6)   The applicant shall present to the City Manager for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
         (a)   A motor vehicle operator’s license issued by any state, bearing
the applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
         (b)   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
         (c)   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
         (d)   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
         (e)   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the City Manager; or
         (f)   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the City
Manager.
      (7)   (a)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his or her background by the city to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her expense,
a criminal history from the Clerk of Court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years.
         (b)   Failure to provide the information required by this division
shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be processed until
complete.
   (C)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer license, the City Manager
shall immediately commence investigation of the application as follows.
      (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the City Manager shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Planning and
Development Director and to the Police Chief.
         (b)   The Planning and Development Director shall report to the City
Manager no later than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by
the City Manager whether or not a proposed adult establishment complies with
the requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding location of the adult
establishment, building, fire, health or similar state or local code(s). In the
event the Planning and Development Director fails to report to the City Manager
within this time period, the City Manager shall proceed with processing the
application.
         (c)   1.   The Police Chief shall report to the City Manager no later
than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Police Chief
the results of his or her investigation of the applicant.
            2.   In the event that the Police Chief fails to report to the City
Manager within this time period, the City Manager shall proceed with processing
the application.
         (d)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Planning and
Development Director and the Police Chief (or upon expiration of the time
periods referenced above without receiving a report), the City Manager shall
determine whether or not a license shall be issued. In no event shall the time
period for determination by the City Manager exceed 45 working days from the
date the application is received by the City Manager, unless consented to by
the applicant.
      (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
City Manager shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Police Chief shall report to the City Manager no later than
ten working days after receipt of the application by the Police Chief the
results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event that the
Police Chief fails to report to the City Manager within this time period, the
revenue manager shall proceed with processing the application;
         (c)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Police Chief (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the City Manager shall determine whether or not a license
shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by the
City Manager exceed 15 days from the date the application is received by the
City Manager, unless consented to by the applicant;
         (d)   The City Manager must deny the license application for one or
more of the following reasons:
            1.   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
            2.   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in
the local, state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this
section;
            3.   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a city background investigation
or by any other lawful means; and/or
            4.   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   1.   Upon a determination by the City Manager of the disapproval
or approval of the application, the City Manager shall notify the applicant by
personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address
of the applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the application
is disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for such disapproval.
            2.   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant
shall have 30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Superior Court of the county.
         (f)   All applicants shall notify the City Manager of any changes to
the application within five working days of the date the change occurs.
(1997 Code, § 116.04) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.05 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear “bottomless” or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which stimulates
any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether such
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24 inches between any
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (H)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive or
accept nor shall any customer, or patron give, offer or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment of any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a “free” dance, act or
service.
   (I)   No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 116.05) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06 LICENSE; POSTING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by city authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 116.06) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07 INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the Police, Fire,
Zoning or other city or state departments or agencies acting in their official
capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the business is
complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(1997 Code, § 116.07) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
working days of his or her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for such license, or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license or for a use or type other than that for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all
information in the application for such license, or renewal thereof;
      (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the City Manager shall take, within five working days
after the hearing, any of the following actions:
      (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
      (2)   Revoke the license;
      (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation for a period
of up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this chapter
occur during the period of probation; or
      (4)   Take no action.
   (C)   The City Manager shall provide written notice of his or her decision
to the applicant by certified mail, returned receipt requested. The notice
shall be sent immediately after the City Manager determines what action to
take, as described above.
   (D)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Superior Court of the county within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probation.
(1997 Code, § 116.08) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.09 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the City Manager on
application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued under this
chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12 month period from the date of its
issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be submitted no
sooner than 45 days prior to expiration and no later than the city business day
immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the City Manager shall issue to the applicant a receipt
showing the date of the renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be renewed by issuance of a new license for
an additional 12-month period. All applications for renewal of license shall be
processed in the manner provided for the issuance of the initial license.
(1997 Code, § 116.09) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(1997 Code, § 116.10) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.11 LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Adult establishments may be permitted in certain zoning districts as
permitted by this chapter, provided that an adult establishment shall not be
located or operated within 1,500 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue or regular place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A public library;
      (4)   A public park or playground;
      (5)   A licensed daycare center;
      (6)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children;
      (7)   Another adult establishment;
      (8)   Any building used as a dwelling; or
      (9)   A boundary of any residential zoning district.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the lot line used as part of the premises where an adult
establishment is conducted, to the nearest line of the premises of any use
listed in division (A) above.
(1997 Code, § 116.11) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.12 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will
be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days
or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or
altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more
sexually oriented businesses are within 1,500 feet of one another and otherwise
in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business that was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is nonconforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(1997 Code, § 116.12) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.13 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person, and within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(1997 Code, § 116.13) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(1997 Code, § 116.14) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(1997 Code, § 116.15) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.16 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS,
VIDEOS AND LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises a viewing
room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, other
video reproduction or live performance that depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The City Manager may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manger’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the City Manager or his or
her designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager’s stations designed, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructive view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations.
The view required in this division may be by direct line of sight from the
manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above is
in violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(1997 Code, § 116.16) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.17 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually
oriented business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted
any color other than a single achromatic color.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to a sexually oriented business if
the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center;
and
         (b)   The exterior portions of such individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 116.17) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.18 SIGNAGE.
   Signage for sexually oriented businesses shall comply with the city’s zoning
ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 116.18) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.19 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY A PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 116.19) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.20 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(1997 Code, § 116.20) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(1997 Code, § 116.21) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.22 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the City Manager or
any other city office, division, department or other agency under this chapter
to any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be
given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the City Manager. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the City Manager or
his or her designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to
the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the City Manager by
any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the City Manager.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the City Manager in writing
of any change of residence or mailing address.
(1997 Code, § 116.22) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
§ 116.23 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license or in violation of this chapter, is subject to
a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day
a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation.
(1997 Code, § 116.23) (Ord. passed 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 117: BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Construction of this chapter
   
117.04   Requirement for registration
   
117.05   Period of registration; due date
   
117.06   Separate businesses
   
117.07   Exemptions
   
117.08   Registration of application
   
117.09   Reasons for refusal or revocation of a registration
   
117.10   Qualified agents; right to a conference
   
117.11   Administrator to issue registration; payment of registration fee a
prerequisite
   
117.12   Registration fee
   
117.13   Revocation
   
117.14   Form and contents of registration
   
117.15   Assignments
   
117.16   Changes in the business conducted during the year
   
117.17   Administrator to furnish duplicates
   
117.18   Records of conferences
   
117.19   Providing notice to an agent or person
   
117.20   Duty to determine whether registration is required
   
117.21   Administrator to investigate
   
117.22   Duty to permit inspection
   
117.23   Duty to post registration
   
117.24   Enforcement of ordinance
   
117.25   Appeal
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require businesses and occupations located
within the municipal limits to obtain an annual certificate from the city so
that the following public purposes may be accomplished: ensuring compliance
with zoning and land use regulations; enabling the public safety to be aware of
buildings being used for commercial purposes so as to assist in fire
protection; identifying businesses that should be listing property for
taxation; protecting the public from scam artists and con men; and any other
lawful purpose related to the exercise of the city’s general police power, and
the public health, welfare and safety.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The individual designated by the City Manager to operate the
Business Registration Program required by this chapter.
   AGENT. An individual acting on behalf of “person” as defined herein.
   BUSINESS. Includes each trade, occupation, profession, business and
franchise subject to registration under this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Roanoke Rapids.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
limited liability company, company, firm or other legal entity.
   SEASONAL. A business is SEASONAL in nature when it is conducted for profit
six months out of the year or less.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.03 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition, issuance
of a registration in accordance with this chapter does not excuse a person from
compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This chapter does
not prevent the city from requiring registration for additional businesses.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.04 REQUIREMENT FOR REGISTRATION.
   Unless exempt as described in §
117.07, each person who conducts a business within this city is subject to this
chapter. One conducts a business “within the city” if one maintains a business
location within the city; or if, either personally or through agents: solicits
business within the city limits; or picks up or delivers goods or services
within the city limits.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.05 PERIOD OF REGISTRATION; DUE DATE.
   (A)   Annual registrations. Unless the section of this chapter applicable to
a particular business provides otherwise, a registration issued in accordance
with this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending
June 30.
   (B)   Registrations for periods shorter than one year. If the section of
this chapter applicable to a particular business so provides, a registration
may be issued for a period of one day, one week or some comparable period of
less than a full registration year. A person may not commence to conduct a
business within the city until the business registration is obtained and may
not continue such a business beyond the period for which the registration is
issued.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.06 SEPARATE BUSINESSES.
   A separate registration is required for each place of business unless two or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all businesses within the city
municipal jurisdiction unless specifically exempted or excluded from
registering by this chapter, by the laws of the state or by laws of the United
States.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.08 REGISTRATION APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each registration
required by this chapter before commencing business.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the
City Administrator, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner, and if applicable, the agent for the
business; and a complete statement as to whether the agent is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation, or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business;
      (3)   The physical location of where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as
required by this chapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and if so, the serial number of the state
registration the business or the agent for the business currently holds; and
      (6)   Any other information the Administrator determines to be necessary
to issue the registration, or otherwise regulate the business appropriately.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a registration
fee, which is described in §
117.12.
   (D)   In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed the cost to
the city of the administrative process of the production and issuance of the
registration, or to otherwise monitor the business.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.09 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A REGISTRATION.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a registration or may revoke a
registration for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The owner or agent misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a registration; or
   (B)   The owner or agent refuses to provide necessary information, as
determined by the Administrator in his or her discretion.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.10 UNQUALIFIED AGENTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator
believes that a reason exists for refusing a registration under §
117.09, the Administrator shall not issue the registration. At the agent’s
request, the Administrator shall, in accordance with §
117.13, give the owner or agent a written statement of the reason for refusing
the registration. The owner or agent may, within ten days after the day the
statement is received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the
request, the owner or agent shall specify why the application for a
registration should not be refused. The Administrator shall arrange the
conference within three business days of receiving the request.
   (B)   If the Administrator refuses to issue a registration, the owner or
agent may reapply for a registration at any time thereafter. If the reason for
which the application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason
exists for refusing to issue a registration, the Administrator shall issue the
registration in compliance with §
117.11.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.11 ADMINISTRATOR TO ISSUE REGISTRATION; PAYMENT OF REGISTRATION FEE A
PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the registration
fee, if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a
registration under §
117.09 of this chapter, the Administrator shall issue the registration.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.12 REGISTRATION FEE.
   The fee required of every owner or agent for any business conducted or
engaged in within the city as required by this chapter shall be set at $20 and
made a part of the fee schedule adopted by the City Council, as amended from
time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee shall in no case be more
than the maximum permitted by state law for that particular business or
enterprise.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.13 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrator may revoke a registration if a reason exists to
revoke it as set forth in §
117.09. Before revoking a registration, the Administrator shall give the person
written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with §
117.19. The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
mailed, request a conference with the Administrator in writing. The request
shall specify the reasons why the registration should not be revoked. The
Administrator shall arrange the conference within three business days of
receiving the request.
   (B)   If the person fails to request a conference within ten days after the
day on which notice is mailed, the Administrator shall revoke the registration.
If the person requests a conference, the Administrator may not revoke the
registration until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Administrator revokes a registration, the person whose
registration has been revoked may apply for a new registration at any time
thereafter. If the reason for which the registration was revoked no longer
exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a registration, the
Administrator shall issue the registration in accordance with §
117.11.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.14 FORM AND CONTENTS OF REGISTRATION.
   A registration shall show the name of the person, and any agent who may act
on the person’s behalf, the place where the business is conducted (if it is to
be conducted at one place), the nature of the business and the period for which
the registration is issued. The Administrator shall keep an exact copy of each
registration issued.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.15 ASSIGNMENTS.
   A registration may be assigned if: a business under this chapter and carried
on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person; and the purchaser is to
continue the same business at the same place. Such a change shall be reported
to the Administrator in accordance with §
117.16 of this chapter. Otherwise, each registration issued under this chapter
is a separate registration and is not assignable.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.16 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED DURING THE YEAR.
   (A)   A person or an assignee shall report any change in the information
contained in the registration application to the Administrator within ten days
after the change occurs.
   (B)   If information shown on the registration itself is affected, the
person or assignee shall surrender the registration to the Administrator when
reporting the change.
      (1)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate
registration fee, the Administrator shall reissue a registration reflecting the
change upon payment of a processing fee of $5.
      (2)   Change requiring refusal of a registration. If the change creates a
reason for revoking the registration under §
117.09 of this chapter, the Administrator shall refuse to reissue a
registration and shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the registration in
accordance with §
117.13.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.17 ADMINISTRATOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a registration has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a processing fee of $5.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.18 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The Administrator shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held in accordance with this chapter. The record shall contain the agent’s and
person’s name, the date of the conference, and a brief statement of the issues
discussed and the result reached. After three years, the Administrator may
dispose of the record in accordance with G.S. § 121-5.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.19 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN AGENT OR PERSON.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Administrator to give a written statement
of notice to an agent or person, the Administrator may do so in one of three
ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the agent or
person;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by First Class ,ail to the address
on the application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the agent or person
in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4, North
Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.20 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED.
   Each person or his or her designated agent has the duty to determine whether
the business he or she conducts is required to be registered under this
chapter, and if so, whether that registration has been obtained.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.21 ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the city in violation of this chapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.22 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts a business, as defined in §
117.04, in the city shall permit the Administrator to inspect the business
premises during normal business hours to determine the nature of the business
conducted there.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.23 DUTY TO POST REGISTRATION.
   A business shall post the registration or registrations conspicuously in the
place of business registered. If the person has a regular place of business,
the registration must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the
proper city officials.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 117.24 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), conducting business within this
city without a valid registration issued in accordance with this chapter, or
without posting a registration in compliance with §
117.23 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
does not pay the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the
citation for violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in §
117.24(A)(1) for that violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for
the violation, but will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement
officer from issuing future citations for future violations.
   (B)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the civil penalties set out in
division (A) above and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the city may seek
an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 117.25 APPEAL.
   Any agent/person refused or denied a registration under this chapter may
appeal to the City Manager for review of such refusal or denial. Such appeal
shall be in writing, and shall be delivered to the City Clerk within 30 days
after notice of such refusal or denial has been sent or otherwise delivered to
the agent/person.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
CHAPTER 118: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND VENDORS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions; compliance required; applicability
   
118.02   License required
   
118.03   License application
   
118.04   License fee
   
118.05   Investigation of application; issuance of license; term of validity;
change of location; transferability
   
118.06   Posting of license
   
118.07   Safety vest required for certain activities
   
118.08   Exemptions
   
118.09   Revocation of license
   
118.10   Appeals
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PEDDLER. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent,
consignee or employee, whether or not a resident of the city, who engages in
the business of carrying any goods, wares or merchandise from place to place
and offering to sell or barter, or actually selling or bartering, such goods or
merchandise.
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT and ITINERANT VENDOR (all such
terms referred to in this chapter as ITINERANT MERCHANT). Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the city, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who, in
furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, tent, trailer, railroad box car, truck or boat,
public room in hotels, motels, lodging houses, apartments or shops, or any
street, alley or other place within the city for the exhibition and sale of
such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public auction,
provided that such definition shall not be construed to include:
         (a)   Any person selling at a “yard sale” at his or her residence and
as such term is defined in §
115.01 of this code;
         (b)   Any person, firm or corporation that otherwise meets the
requirements of this definition, but who is part of a group of ten or more
merchants selling at a shopping area or trade show, and is selling at the
invitation of the shopping area or trade show, and where such sales activities
do not last for a period of time longer than seven days; or
         (c)   A traveling salesperson.
   (B)   Relief from compliance by association. For the purpose of this
chapter, a person, firm or corporation engaged in a transient business shall
not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by
reason of temporarily associating with any local dealer, trader, merchant or
auctioneer or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a
part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
   (C)   Applicability. The provisions of this chapter dealing with transient
merchants, itinerant merchants, itinerant vendors and peddlers shall not apply
to any person, firm or corporation who sells, or offers for sale, books,
periodicals, printed music, ice, wood for fuel, fish, beef, mutton, pork,
bread, cakes, pies, dairy products, poultry, eggs, vegetables, fruits,
livestock or articles produced by the individual vendor offering such articles
for sale, but shall apply to medicines, drugs or assembled articles.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 118.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant, itinerant merchant, itinerant
vendor or peddler to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a privilege license in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Tax/Revenue Collector.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of the goods, wares or merchandise for sale;
      (2)   The names of the persons, and any employees or agents, having the
management or supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it
is proposed that such business will be carried on in the city; the local
addresses of such persons while engaged in such business; the permanent
addresses of such persons; the capacity in which such persons will act, whether
as proprietor, agent or otherwise; the name and address of the person, firm or
corporation for whose account the business will be carried on, if any and, if a
corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (3)   Places within the city where the applicant proposes to conduct
business and the length of time during which it is proposed that such business
shall be conducted, and the provisions the applicant has for access and
parking;
      (4)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number;
      (5)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individuals identified in
division (B)(2) above, have been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if
so, the nature of each offense and the penalty assessed for each offense; and
      (6)   Proof of the property owner’s permission to conduct such business.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.04 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Before issuing a license under this chapter, the Tax/Revenue Collector
shall collect a license fee in an amount of $20 which shall be set from time to
time and is on file in the City Clerk’s office, which shall be for a term of
one year from the date of issuance and shall not be prorated due to the license
being issued later than July 1.
   (B)   The license feel shall not relieve the applicant of paying any other
state or local taxes required by law.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; TERM OF VALIDITY;
CHANGE OF LOCATION; TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   The Tax/Revenue Collector shall investigate all applications within
five days from receipt of the application.
   (B)   If the applicant satisfies all requirements of this chapter, the Tax/
Revenue Collector shall issue a license. A copy of all license applications and
licenses issued shall be maintained in the office of the Tax/Revenue Collector.
   (C)   The license shall be issued for a period of one year. Itinerant
merchant licenses will be valid for the location indicated on the license. If
the location changes, the itinerant merchant shall apply for a new license.
   (D)   The license is not transferable to other persons or locations.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.06 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   The license issued under this chapter shall be conspicuously posted in the
place of business named on such license.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 118.07 SAFETY VEST REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
   A reflective safety vest, supplied by the applicant, shall be required for
any individual peddling goods from place to place.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to civic clubs located within the county, nor
to any bona fide charitable, education, religious, cultural or governmental
institution or organization when the proceeds of the sales are used directly
for the charitable purpose of the institution or organization. See
Chapter 113.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
§ 118.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Tax/Revenue Collector of the city, after notice and hearing, for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement in the course of
carrying on the business as peddler or itinerant merchant;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Convictions of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
and/or
      (5)   Conducting the business of peddler or itinerant merchant in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or a
detriment to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, specifically setting forth the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee at his or her last known address at least ten days prior to the date
set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.10 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Tax/Revenue Collector in the
denial of an application for a license, or in the decision with reference to
the revocation as provided in §
118.08, shall have the right to appeal to the City Manager. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Manager, within 14 days after notice of the
action complained of has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The City Manager
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall
be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
118.08.
   (B)   The order of the City Manager after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 2016-08, passed 5-3-2016)
CHAPTER 119: ALCOHOL SALES
Section
   
119.01   Sunday sales of alcoholic beverages
§ 119.01 SUNDAY SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160A-205.3 any establishment
located in the corporate limits of the city and holding an ABC permit issued
pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001 is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages allowed by
its permit beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2020.09, passed 12-1-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   MINORS; CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Illegal use of school, church or public property
   
130.02   Posting signs or advertisements on private or public property
   
130.03   Urinating or defecating in public
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ILLEGAL USE OF SCHOOL, CHURCH OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use any school, church or
other public building or the grounds around such public building for any
immoral, indecent or indecorous conduct.
(1997 Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 POSTING SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to drive any nails or tacks in
the telephone, telegraph or electric light poles, or in any house or store
situated on any sidewalk or street of the city, or to tack any signs or
advertisements thereon, without obtaining the permission of the owner thereof.
(1997 Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 URINATING OR DEFECATING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to prohibit
urinating or defecating in public, in order to allow public property to be used
more enjoyably and to promote the good health of the public.
   (B)   Authority. This section is adopted under the authority granted by G.S.
§ 160A-174.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. This section applies to all property accessible to the
general public.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEFECATE. The act of expelling solid waste from the human body.
      PERSONS. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
other organizations or groups, or a combination of persons acting as a unit.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any building, street, alley, parking lot or any other place
that is easily accessible to the general public.
      URINATE. The act of expelling liquid waste from the human body.
   (E)   Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or
defecate in any public place, in view of the public.
   (F)   Enforcement. Any person violating this section will be charged by
citation, criminal summons or by physical arrest for this violation.
(1997 Code, § 130.03) (Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of penalties for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   For violations of any of the provisions of §
130.03, the penalty is $100.
      (2)   For all other violations of this chapter, the penalty is $50.
(1997 Code, § 130.99) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages in public
   
131.02   Possession of weapons while intoxicated
   
131.03   Discharging weapons; permitting child to discharge
   
131.04   Weapons prohibited on city property
   
131.05   Concealed handguns prohibited in recreational facilities; posting
required
   
131.06   Possession or display of firearms regulated
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Generally. 
      (1)   Except as provided by this section, it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to consume malt beverages or unfortified wine on any city street,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to possess an open container of malt
beverages or unfortified wine on any property owned, occupied or controlled by
the city.
      (2)   It shall also be unlawful to possess malt beverages and unfortified
wine on any street, alley or parking lot which is temporarily closed to regular
traffic for a special event unless the resolution of the City Council closing
the street, alley or parking lot makes other provisions for the possession of
malt beverages or unfortified wine.
      (3)   An open container is one the seal of which has been broken or a
container other than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafés. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the city code,
the sale, possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall not be a
violation of division (A) above, provided the owner/operator of the sidewalk
café has applied for and been granted a permit to operate a sidewalk café, and
that permit is in effect and all the terms and conditions of the permit are
being complied with; further, it shall not be a violation of division (A) above
for customers of a permitted sidewalk café to possess and consume alcoholic
beverages on that portion of a sidewalk that is covered by an active permit for
that sidewalk café.
(1997 Code, § 131.01) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2010-23, passed 11-9-2010)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 POSSESSION OF WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her immediate
possession and control any firearm, or other deadly weapon, while under the
influence of intoxicating drink, or at the premises of a church, polling place
or public assembly.
(1997 Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISCHARGING WEAPONS; PERMITTING CHILD TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge an air rifle, air
pistol, air gun, slingshot or any like instrument used to eject a pellet or
projectile, or to discharge a pistol, rifle, shotgun or other gun within the
corporate limits, except a police officer in the performance of his or her
duty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a child or any person who
stands in the relationship of parent to a child to knowingly permit such child
to discharge an air rifle, air pistol, air gun, slingshot or any like
instrument used to eject a pellet or projectile.
(1997 Code, § 131.03) (Ord. passed 8-11-1992) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 WEAPONS PROHIBITED ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Except as provided division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any
person to possess or carry concealed about his or her person any weapon in
city-owned buildings and parks. For purposes of this section and prohibition,
the term WEAPON shall refer to and include any weapon listed in G.S. § 14-269
and any deadly weapon of like kind.
   (B)   This section and prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
      (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
      (2)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service; and
      (4)   Sworn law enforcement officers.
   (C)   A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance to any property
set forth in division (A) above stating: “Possession of weapons or carrying a
concealed handgun is prohibited.”
   (D)   Weapons possessed in violation of this section are hereby declared to
be contraband. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall hold such
weapon for disposal pursuant to court order. In the absence of any court order,
the weapon shall be destroyed.
(1997 Code, § 131.04) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 CONCEALED HANDGUNS PROHIBITED IN RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; POSTING
REQUIRED.
   (A) It shall be unlawful to carry a concealed handgun on or in parks and
recreational facilities and appurtenant facilities during an organized event
scheduled with the city; parks and recreation facilities and appurtenant
facilities including, but not limited to, located in the following city parks
and facilities:
      (1)   T.J. Davis Recreation Center;
      (2)   Aquatics Center and Outdoor Pools;
      (3)   Chaloner Recreation Center and Outdoor Pool;
      (4)   Jo Story Senior Center;
      (5)   Roanoke Rapids Public Library;
      (6)   Kirkwood Adams Community Center;
      (7)   Roanoke Canal Museum;
      (8)   Lloyd Andrews City Meeting Hall;
      (9)   Smith Park;
      (10)   Long Park;
      (11)   Chockoyotte Park;
      (12)   Rochelle Park;
      (13)   Emry Park;
      (14)   C.W. Davis Park;
      (15)   Melody Park;
      (16)   Edward George Park;
      (17)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Park;
      (18)   Ledgerwood Athletic Complex;
      (19)   Wheeler Park; and
      (20)   Southgate Park.
   (B)   The Recreation Director or his or her designee is hereby authorized
and instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on the
recreational facilities described in division (A) above, indicating that
carrying a firearm, including a handgun carried under the authority of a lawful
concealed handgun permit, is prohibited.
   (C)   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each
entrance by which the general public can access the building. The Recreation
Director or his or her designee shall exercise discretion in determining the
number and appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant
premises and recreational facilities.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 POSSESSION OR DISPLAY OF FIREARMS REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or possess a concealed
handgun in any city-owned or operated building, including any appurtenant
premises such as a parking lot.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person to carry, display or
possess, whether concealed or carried openly, any handgun, rifle, pistol or
other firearm in any city-owned building, including any appurtenant premises
such as a parking lot and including public parks or recreation areas.
      (1)   Nothing in this division (B) shall prohibit a person from storing a
firearm within a locked motor vehicle while the vehicle is on these grounds or
areas.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the lawful carrying of a
concealed handgun in public parks or recreation areas not listed in §
131.05(A).
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-18-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c), a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the civil penalty within 30 days from the date of issuance of the citation for
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for the violations
listed in this chapter. This shall not preclude or limit in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority, or otherwise carrying out
any of their duties as a law enforcement officer.
      (3)   Each person receiving a citation may, within 30 days of the time
when issued the citation, submit to the violation and pay to the Police
Department the applicable penalty listed in division (B) below for that
violation. Said payment will be in full satisfaction for the violation, but
will not preclude or limit in any way any law enforcement officer from issuing
future citations for future violations.
   (B)   The following is a list of penalties for violations of this chapter:
      (1)   For violations of any of the provisions of §
131.01, the penalty is $100.
      (2)   For violations of any of the provisions of §
131.04, the penalty is $500.
      (3)   For all other violations of this chapter, the penalty is $50.
(1997 Code, § 131.99) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 4-19-1978; Ord. passed 5-
14-1985; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
CHAPTER 132: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Offenses
   
132.04   Exceptions
   
132.05   Other exceptions
   
132.06   Enforcement procedures
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect juveniles from victimization and
exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for persons under the
age of 18 years in the city. This youth protection chapter is intended to
promote the health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating
an environment providing better protection and security for all concerned. The
purpose is also to define the duties of parents or guardians and operators of
business establishments and protect minors from improper influence and criminal
activity that occurs after the curfew hour.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ADULT. Parent, guardian or someone over 21 years of age
authorized to accompany the juvenile for a designated period of time.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated to which the
public has access or is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 18 years who is not married or
emancipated.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation, operating, managing or conducting any establishment, including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it be publicly or privately owned,
including, but not limited to, streets, highways, alleys, rights-of-way, public
vehicular area and parking lots, shops, restaurants, convenience stores,
schools and school grounds, places of business and amusement, playgrounds,
parks, church grounds, similar areas that are open to the public, and other
common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily in a public
place. To implement this provision with additional precision and precaution,
numerous exceptions are expressly defined in the ordinance. More and more
exceptions become available with a juvenile’s increasing years and advancing
maturity as appropriate in the interest of reasonable regulation.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time and night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard time whether eastern standard time or eastern daylight
savings time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the city.
RESTRICTED HOURS will mean 12:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. year-round.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008)
§ 132.03 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by §
132.04, the following offenses constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (A)   A person under the age of 18 years shall be in violation of this
chapter if he or she shall remain at any time in or upon any public place or
establishment within the city.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age
of 18 years to be or remain in or upon any public place or establishment within
the city during the restricted hours.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person 18 years or
older to aid or abet a juvenile in the violation of division (A) above.
   (D)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile shall be in violation of this
section if he or she knowingly permits, and/or by inadequate supervision,
allows the juvenile to remain on the premises of any establishment or in any
public place within the city during the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY
includes knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent’s legal custody. This
requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent up to a
reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an objective
test. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was completely
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a parent or guardian of a
juvenile to refuse to take custody of the juvenile during the restricted hours.
   (F)   The owners, operator or any employee of an establishment shall be in
violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain
upon the premises of the establishment during the restricted hours. The term
KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that an operator or employer should reasonably be
expected to have concerning the patrons of an establishment.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008)
§ 132.05 OTHER EXCEPTIONS.
   If the owner, operator or employee of an establishment notifies the Police
Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008)
§ 132.06 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile is in a public
place in violation of this chapter, the officer shall notify the juvenile that
he or she is in violation of this chapter and shall require the juvenile to
provide his or her name, address and telephone number and how to contact his or
her parent or guardian. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer
shall, in the first instance of violation of the ordinance, use his or her best
judgment in determining age.
   (B)   The police officer shall issue the juvenile a written warning that the
juvenile is in violation of the ordinance and order the juvenile to go promptly
home. The Chief of Police shall send the parent or guardian of the juvenile
written notice of the violation by first class mail with a warning that any
subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of the ordinance,
including enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable penalties.
   (C)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent or
guardian thereof a juvenile under appropriate circumstances; for example, a
juvenile of tender age, near home, whose identity and address may be readily
ascertained or are known.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, when: a juvenile has received one
previous written warning for violation of this chapter; or a police officer has
reasonable grounds to believe that the juvenile has engaged in delinquent
conduct, the procedure shall then be to take the juvenile to the police station
where a parent or guardian shall immediately be notified to come for the
juvenile whereupon the parent or guardian and the juvenile shall be questioned.
This is intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional safeguards, of
relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility in the person designated there
and then on duty for an accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform
enforcement, and recording, thus, making available experienced personnel and
access to information and records.
   (E)   For the first violation of the ordinance by an operator of an
establishment who permits a juvenile to remain on the premises, a police
officer shall issue a written notice of the violation with a warning that any
subsequent violation may result in full enforcement of the chapter, including
enforcement of operator responsibility and of applicable penalties.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A juvenile who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to
being adjudicated delinquent. The court may, in its discretion, impose any
dispositional alternative(s) that is/are provided to the State Juvenile Code
for any juvenile who is delinquent.
   (B)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any provision of this
chapter may be guilty of the misdemeanor contributing to delinquency and
neglect by parents and others under G.S. § 14-316.1, and said person will be
charged and prosecuted for said violation through the State Courts of North
Carolina.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 12-9-2008; Ord. 2023.15, passed 10-17-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   SIGNS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Fire limits
Adoption of Regulatory Codes by Reference
   
150.015   Scope; application of regulations
   
150.016   Compliance with Codes
   
150.017   Residential Building Code adopted
   
150.018   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.019   Mechanical/Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
150.020   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.021   Amendments to Codes
   
150.022   Copies of Codes filed with Building Inspector
Permit Requirements
   
150.035   Permits required
   
150.036   Contents of application for permit
   
150.037   Plans and specifications to accompany application for permit
   
150.038   Limitations on issuance of permit
   
150.039   Issuance of permit
   
150.040   Permit revocation
   
150.041   Time limitations on validity of permit
   
150.042   Changes in work after permit issued
   
150.043   Schedule of permit fees
Condemnation, Repair and Demolition of Unsafe Buildings or Structures
   
150.055   Building Inspector; duties
   
150.056   Duty of owner; procedure; action taken when owner refuses to act
   
150.057   Notice and hearing
   
150.058   Issuance of order to remedy or demolish
   
150.059   Appeal; finality if not appealed
   
150.060   Report when owner fails to comply
   
150.061   Order of City Council; assessment of costs
   
150.062   When notice of City Council hearing required
   
150.063   Presumption of danger to public
   
150.064   Willful failure or refusal to comply with orders
Inspection Department
   
150.075   Organization
   
150.076   Duties of Department and Inspectors
   
150.077   Enforcement of Land Use Code
   
150.078   Duty of Inspection Department regarding housing
   
150.079   Inspection procedure; certificate of occupancy
   
150.080   Powers of inspection officials
   
150.081   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of Building Inspector
   
150.082   Reports and records
   
150.083   Conflicts of interest
   
150.084   Oversight not to legalize violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Downtown fire district. The fire limits of the downtown fire district
shall be as follows: beginning at the point of intersection of the centerlines
of First Street and Jackson street and extending southwardly along the
centerline of Jackson Street to a point approximately 300 feet south of the
intersection of the centerlines of Jackson Street and Second Street (said point
being opposite the boundary line between Lots 86 and 87 as shown on Tax Map No.
433); thence eastwardly along said line approximately 180 feet to a point of
intersection with the centerline of the alley between Jackson Street and
Roanoke Avenue; thence southwardly along said centerline a distance of
approximately 90 feet to a point opposite the boundary line between Lots 99 and
100 as shown on Tax Map No. 433; thence eastwardly along said line
approximately 190 feet to a point at the intersection of said line and the
centerline of NC 48 (Roanoke Avenue); thence southwardly along the centerline
of NC 48 to a point approximately 205 feet south of the intersection of the
centerlines of NC 48 and Third Street (said point being opposite boundary line
between Lots 242 and 243 as shown on Tax Map No. 449); thence eastwardly along
said line approximately 190 feet to a point at the intersection of said line
and the centerline of the alley between Roanoke Avenue and Hamilton Street;
thence northwardly along the centerline of the alley to a point approximately
165 feet north of the intersection of the centerlines of the alley and Third
Street (said point being opposite the boundary line between Lots 174 and 175 as
shown on Tax Map No. 433); thence eastwardly along said line approximately 180
feet to its intersection with the centerline of Hamilton Street; thence
northwardly along the centerline of Hamilton Street to a point approximately
150 feet north of the intersection of the centerlines of Hamilton Street and
Second Street (said point being opposite the boundary line between Lots 195 and
196 as shown on Tax Map No. 433); thence westwardly along said line
approximately 180 feet to a point at the intersection of said line and the
centerline of the alley between Hamilton Street and Roanoke Avenue; thence
northwardly along the centerline of the alley to its point of intersection with
the centerline of First Street; thence westwardly along the centerline of First
Street to its intersection with the centerlines of Jackson Street, the point of
beginning.
   (B)   Uptown fire district. The fire limits of the uptown fire district
shall be as follows: beginning at a point of intersection of the centerline of
the alley between NC 48 (Roanoke Avenue) and Jackson Street and the centerline
of Ninth Street and extending southwardly along said alley to its projected
point of intersection with the centerline of Jackson Street; thence eastwardly
along the centerline of Jackson Street to its point of intersection with the
centerline of NC 48; thence southwardly along the centerline of NC 48 to the
point of intersection with the centerline of Fourteenth Street; thence
eastwardly along the centerline of Fourteenth Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of the alley between NC 48 and Hamilton
Street; thence northwardly along the centerline of said alley to a point
approximately 165 feet south of the intersection of said alley with the
centerline of Eleventh Street (said point being opposite the boundary line
between Lots 3 and 4 as shown on Tax Map No. 461); thence eastwardly along said
line approximately 180 feet to a point at the intersection of said line and the
centerline of Hamilton Street; thence northwardly along the centerline of
Hamilton Street a distance of approximately 105 feet to a point opposite the
boundary line between Lots 7 and 8 as shown on Tax Map No. 461; thence
westwardly along said boundary line approximately 180 feet to a point at the
intersection of said line and the centerline of the alley between NC 48 and
Hamilton Street; thence northwardly along the centerline of said alley to a
point of intersection of the centerlines of Ninth Street to its point of
intersection with the centerline of the alley between NC 48 and Jackson Street,
the point of beginning.
   (C)   Regulations. For purposes of this section, Appendix “F Fire District”
of the 1996 Edition of the State Building Code (and as amended) shall regulate
the types of construction and occupancy permitted in the above referenced
districts.
(1997 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed - -)
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE
§ 150.015 SCOPE; APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter and of the regulatory codes adopted in
this subchapter shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to such building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1997 Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.016 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   Building Codes. All buildings or structures that are hereafter
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
demolished or moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and
other provisions of the Building Codes adopted by §§
150.017 and
150.018.
   (B)   Plumbing Code. Every building or structure intended for human
habitation, occupancy or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing
fixtures installed, constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed
in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of
the Plumbing Code adopted by §
150.019.
   (C)   Heating Codes. All mechanical systems consisting of heating,
ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment
and appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and Ventilation Code
adopted by §
150.020.
   (D)   Electrical Code. All electrical wiring, installations and
appurtenances shall be erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in
accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the
Electrical Code adopted by §
150.021.
(1997 Code, § 150.16)
§ 150.017 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 2011 Edition of the State Building Code: Residential Code 2011 (2003 IRC
with North Carolina Amendments) including Appendix G, Swimming Pools, Spas and
Hot Tubs as adopted by the North Carolina Building Inspector’s Association and
as published by the Stat Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth in this subchapter as the Residential Building
Code for one- and two-family residential buildings in the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.018 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1988 edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (State Building Code,
Volume Il, Plumbing), as adopted and published by the State Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.19)
§ 150.019 MECHANICAL/FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1988 edition of the North Carolina Heating, Air Conditioning,
Refrigeration and Ventilation Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume
III, Heating), as adopted and published by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth herein as the Mechanical/Fuel Gas Code for the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.020 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1990 edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North Carolina State
Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), adopting by reference the 1990 edition
of the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Association as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Electrical Code
for the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.21)
§ 150.021 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference in this subchapter,
which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein, shall be effective in the city at the time
such amendments are filed with the Planning and Development Department as
provided in §
150.022.
(1997 Code, § 150.22) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.022 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the Planning and
Development Department. Such copies shall be the official copies of the codes
and the amendments.
(1997 Code, § 150.23) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.035 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit
therefor from the Planning and Development Department. The County Health
Department approval of property for a septic tank is required where the sewage
system cannot be connected to the city sewer.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the Planning and Development Department. The
County Health Department approval of property for a septic tank is required
where the sewage system cannot be connected to the city sewer.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating
or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the Planning and
Development Department.
   (D)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from the
Planning and Development Department.
(1997 Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.036 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter and shall be made on forms provided by the Planning and Development
Department.
   (B)   Such application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative and, in
addition to such other information as may be required by the appropriate
inspector to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for
should be issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business address of authorized representative
or agent, if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate State Licensing
Board for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the
permit for which application is made.
(1997 Code, § 150.36) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.037 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit to the Planning and Development Department. Plans shall be drawn to
scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent of the work
proposed, and the plans and specifications together shall contain information
sufficient to indicate that the work proposed will conform to the provisions of
this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and
specifications are required, a copy of the same shall be kept at the worksite
until all authorized operations have been completed and approved by the
appropriate inspector.
(1997 Code, § 150.37) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.038 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000 unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   When any provision of the General Statutes of the state or of any
ordinance requires that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any
kind, no permit for such work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by
such licensed specialty contractor.
   (C)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless such plans and
specifications have been provided.
(1997 Code, § 150.38) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.039 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made and the Planning and
Development Department is satisfied that the application and the proposed work
comply with the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory
codes, such permit shall be issued upon payment of the proper fee or fees as
hereinafter provided in §
150.043.
(1997 Code, § 150.39) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.040 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Planning and Development Department may revoke and require the return of
any permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for
such revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with proper orders of the Planning and Development Department; for refusal or
failure to comply with requirements of this chapter and the appropriate
regulatory codes; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in
securing such permit.
(1997 Code, § 150.40) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.041 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(1997 Code, § 150.41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.042 CHANGES IN WORK AFTER PERMIT ISSUED.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of such changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(1997 Code, § 150.42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.043 SCHEDULE OF PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be included in the city fee schedule, which is
adopted annually.
(1997 Code, § 150.43) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
CONDEMNATION, REPAIR AND DEMOLITION OF UNSAFE
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES
§ 150.055 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Planning and Development Department to be in
such a dilapidated state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be
dangerous to life, health or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety
hazard or a public nuisance shall be declared by the Planning and Development
Department to be unsafe.
   (B)   Such unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire, exits or any other
hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   The Planning and Development Department shall have authority, and it
shall be its duty, to declare all such buildings or structures unsafe and to
take appropriate action to have such conditions corrected or removed.
   (D)   Such declaration by the Planning and Development shall constitute an
order of condemnation for the purposes of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 150.55) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.056 DUTY OF OWNER; PROCEDURE; ACTION TAKEN WHEN OWNER REFUSES TO ACT.
   Whenever any building or structure has been condemned by the Planning and
Development Department, and the existence of such building or structure in a
dilapidated state of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and
determined by the Planning and Development Department or, upon appeal from or
report by the Planning and Development Department as hereafter provided, by the
City Council to be dangerous to life, health or other property, or is in such
condition as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a public nuisance, the
owner or owners of such building or structure shall be required to demolish and
remove the same and remedy such conditions under the regulations and procedures
herein provided. In the event such owner fails or refuses so to do within the
time directed by the Planning and Development Department or by the governing
body, as hereinafter provided, the governing body may, in its judgment, cause
the same to be demolished and removed or such other steps taken as it may find
to be necessary to suppress and abate the nuisance and remove the fire or
safety hazard and the danger to life, health or other property found to exist,
and specially assess the cost and expense of doing such work against the lot or
parcel of land on which such building or structure is located.
(1997 Code, § 150.56) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.057 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and removed
as provided in §
150.056, the Planning and Development Department shall notify the owner or
owners thereof, in writing, by certified or registered mail to the last known
address of such owner, or by personal service of such notice by the Planning
and Development Department or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that
such building or structure is in such condition as appears to constitute a fire
or safety hazard or dangerous to life, health or other property, or to be a
public nuisance, and that a hearing will be held before the Planning and
Development Department at a designated place at a time not less than ten days
after the date of such written notice, at which time and place the owner shall
be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel upon all legal or factual
questions relating to the matter and shall be entitled to offer such evidence
as he or she may desire which is relevant or material to the questions sought
to be determined or the remedies sought to be effected. If the name or
whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence, be discovered, the notice
herein referred to shall be considered properly and adequately served if a copy
thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at
least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing and a notice of the
hearing is published one time in a newspaper having general circulation in the
city at least one week prior to the date fixed for such hearing. Such notice
shall state the address or location of the building or structure and the time,
place and purpose of the hearing.
(1997 Code, § 150.57) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.058 ISSUANCE OF ORDER TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH.
   If, upon such hearing, the Planning and Development Department shall find
that the building or structure in question is in such a dilapidated or
substandard state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to
be dangerous to life, health or other property, or is a public nuisance, it
shall make an order in writing directed to the owner of such building or
structure, requiring the owner to remedy such conditions so found to exist by
demolishing and removing such building or structure or taking such other steps
as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, within such
period, not less than 60 days, as the Planning and Development Department may
prescribe.
(1997 Code, § 150.58) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.059 APPEAL; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Planning and
Development Department to be demolished and removed, or which is directed by
the Planning and Development Department to take any other steps to abate a
nuisance or remove hazards found by the Planning and Development Department to
exist, shall have the right of appeal from such orders to the City Council;
provided, such owner gives notice of appeal to the Planning and Development
Department at the time of the hearing at which the order is made or, within ten
days after such order is made, files with the Planning and Development
Department a written notice of such appeal. Notice of appeal shall state the
grounds therefor. Unless an appeal taken within the time and in the manner
herein prescribed, the action of the Planning and Development Department shall
be deemed final, subject only to such action as the City Council may take as
herein elsewhere provided. Where an appeal has been properly taken and notice
thereof given in accordance with the provisions of this section, it shall be
the duty of the Planning and Development Department to report the same to the
City Manager who shall cause the matter to be placed on the agenda for action
by the City Council at its next ensuing regular meeting. The City Council shall
have the right to continue the hearing of the appeal from time to time, in its
discretion.
(1997 Code, § 150.59) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.060 REPORT WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY.
   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or direction of
the Planning and Development Department requiring that the building or
structure be demolished and removed or the taking of such other steps as may be
required to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to
comply with such order and direction, it shall be the duty of the Planning and
Development Department to file a written report thereof with the City Manager
who shall cause such report to be placed on the agenda for action by the City
Council at its next ensuing regular meeting or to some subsequent meeting to
which the City Council may continue the same. The Planning and Development
Department shall mail a copy of such report by certified or registered mail to
the owner at his or her last known address, or have a copy of such report
delivered to the owner. Such report shall specify the date of the meeting of
the City Council for which the matter will be docketed for action.
(1997 Code, § 150.60) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.061 ORDER OF CITY COUNCIL; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   In all cases referred to in this subchapter which reach the City
Council for action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of the
Planning and Development Department or upon report of the Planning and
Development Department that the owner fails or refuses to comply with its order
or direction, the City Council shall hear the matter, and if it finds and
determines that the building or structure in question is in such a dilapidated
or substandard state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard, or
to be dangerous to life, health or other property, or is a public nuisance, and
that the owner of such building or structure has failed or refused to abate the
nuisance and has failed or refused to have such building or structure
demolished and removed or has failed or refused to take such other steps as may
be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards found to exist, it
may cause demolition and removal of such building or structure to be done, or
effect such other remedies as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove
the hazards, and specially assess the cost of such work against the lot or
parcel of land on which the building or structure was situated.
   (B)   Such assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot or
parcel of land which may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of the
city in the nature of an action to foreclose a mortgage as provided by state
law in the case of ad valorem taxes and local improvements assessments.
(1997 Code, § 150.61) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.062 WHEN NOTICE OF CITY COUNCIL HEARING REQUIRED.
   In cases in which the Planning and Development Department has been unable to
give the owner actual notice of hearing in the manner herein above provided and
has given such notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in §
150.057, and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Planning and Development Department to demolish and remove the
building or structure, or take such other remedial action as will remove the
hazards, and such case is referred to the City Council for action, the City
Council shall, before taking such action, cause to be posted on the outside of
the building or structure in question at least ten days prior to the date fixed
for the hearing, and published one time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city at least one week prior to the date fixed for such
hearing, a written notice stating the address or location of the building or
structure involved and the time, place and purpose of the hearing, and such
other information as the City Council may deem advisable.
(1997 Code, § 150.62) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.063 PRESUMPTION OF DANGER TO PUBLIC.
   In all cases in which the City Council, under authority of this subchapter,
causes the demolition and removal of any building or structure to be carried
out or directs such other remedial steps to be taken as may be necessary to
abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be conclusively presumed
that the public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard and danger to life,
health or other property, created and maintained by the continued presence of
such building or structure in such condition as is found to exist, constitute a
clear and present danger amounting to a situation of emergency involving the
public health, safety and general welfare, which requires entry upon private
property for the summary abatement and removal of such danger in the public
interest.
(1997 Code, § 150.63)
§ 150.064 WILLFUL FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Planning and Development Department or
the City Council made by virtue and in pursuance of this subchapter, and any
person violating this subchapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as
provided by §
10.99, and every day such person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with
any final order or direction of the Planning and Development Department or the
City Council made by virtue and in pursuance of this subchapter shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1997 Code, § 150.64) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.075 ORGANIZATION.
   The Planning and Development Department shall consist of a Building
Inspector, a Plumbing Inspector, a Heating-Air Conditioning Inspector, and
Electrical Inspector and such other inspectors or deputy or assistant
inspectors as may be authorized by the City Council. The City Manager may, in
his or her discretion, designate a department head.
(1997 Code, § 150.75) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.076 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Planning and Development Department to
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes
adopted herein, and to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or
not the provisions of this chapter and such codes are being met.
   (B)   The State Building Code, Volume I, General Construction, and the State
Uniform Residential Building Code shall be enforced by the Planning and
Development Department. The State Plumbing Code shall be enforced by the
Plumbing Inspector. The State Heating Code shall be enforced by the Heating-Air
Conditioning Inspector. The State Electrical Code shall be enforced by the
Electrical Inspector.
(1997 Code, § 150.76) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.077 ENFORCEMENT OF LAND USE CODE.
   The Planning and Development Department is charged with the enforcement of
the Land Use Code. No permit for alteration, repair or construction of any
building or structure shall be issued unless the plans and specifications show
that the building or structure, and its proposed use, will be in compliance
with applicable provisions of the Land Use Code.
(1997 Code, § 150.77) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.078 DUTY OF INSPECTION DEPARTMENT REGARDING HOUSING.
   The Planning and Development Department shall be responsible for the
enforcement of any ordinances or codes adopted by the City Council relating to
the repair, closing and demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation,
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160D.
(1997 Code, § 150.78) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.079 INSPECTION PROCEDURE; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Inspections. The Planning and Development Department shall inspect all
buildings and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has
been issued as often as necessary in order to determine whether the work
complies with this chapter and the appropriate codes. When deemed necessary by
the appropriate inspector, materials and assemblies may be inspected at the
point of manufacture or fabrication, or inspections may be made by approved and
recognized inspection organizations; provided, no approval shall be based upon
reports of such organizations unless the same are in writing and certified by a
responsible officer of such organization. All holders of permits, or their
agents, shall notify the Planning and Development Department and the
appropriate inspector at each of the following stages of construction so that
approval may be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary enforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed;
      (2)   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered, Poured-in-place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member;
      (3)   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied; and
      (4)   Final inspection. To be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung, fixtures set and ready for occupancy, but before the building
is occupied.
   (B)   Calls for inspection.
      (1)   Request for inspections may be made to the Planning and Development
Department. The Planning and Development Department shall make inspections as
soon as practicable after request is made therefor; provided, such work is
ready for inspection at the time the request is made.
      (2)   Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed after the inspection and approval
shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and placed in condition for
proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by the
appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or given
to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to call for inspections or
proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Street or alley lines. Where the applicant for a permit proposes to
erect any building or structure on the line of any street, alley or other
public place, he or she shall secure a survey of the line of such street, alley
or other public place adjacent to the property upon which such building or
structure is to be erected before proceeding with construction of such building
or structure. It shall be the duty of the Planning and Development Department
to see that the building does not encroach upon such street, alley or other
public place.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No new building or part thereof shall be
occupied, and no addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be
occupied, and no existing building after being altered or moved shall be
occupied, and no change of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or
part thereof until the Planning and Development Department has issued a
certificate of occupancy therefor. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued for a portion or portions of a building which may safely be occupied
prior to final completion and occupancy of the entire building. Application for
a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner or his or her agent after
all final inspections have been made for new buildings, or, in the case of
existing buildings, after supplying the information and data necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter, the appropriate regulatory codes and
the Land Use Code for the occupancy intended. The Planning and Development
Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy when, after examination and
inspection, it is found that the building in all respects conforms to the
provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes, and the Land Use Ordinance
for the occupancy intended.
(1997 Code, § 150.79) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.080 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. The Planning and Development Department is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to enforce all the provisions of this
chapter and the regulatory codes herein adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry. Officials with the Planning and Development Department
shall have the right of entry on any premises within the jurisdiction of the
regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this chapter and the
regulatory codes, upon presentation of proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
city ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the Planning and Development
Department may order such work be immediately stopped. Such order shall be in
writing to the owner of the property or to his or her agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under
which the work may be resumed.
(1997 Code, § 150.80) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.081 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Planning and Development Department of the city shall enforce in the
boundaries of extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city as now existing or
hereafter amended all provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 150.81) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.082 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Planning and Development Department and each inspector shall keep
complete, permanent and accurate records in convenient form of all applications
received, permits issued, inspections and reinspections made, and all other
work and activities of the Planning and Development Department. Periodic
reports shall be submitted to the City Manager and to other agencies as
required.
(1997 Code, § 150.82) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.083 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Planning and Development Department shall be
financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for
the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof,
or in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of such building. No officer or employee of the Planning and Development
Department shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interests of the city.
(1997 Code, § 150.83) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 150.084 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Planning and Development Department shall be deemed
to legalize the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of
any regulatory code herein adopted.
(1997 Code, § 150.84) (Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The flood damage prevention regulations of the city, adopted March 10,
1987, and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Copies of said flood damage prevention regulations are available for
public inspection during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 4-11-1978)
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Finding
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Housing code adopted
   
152.04   Conflict with other provisions
   
152.05   Failure to comply with order generally
   
152.06   Unlawful occupancy
   
152.07   Equitable remedy
   
152.08   General powers and duties of code enforcement officer
   
152.09   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
152.10   Repair of damaged structures
Enforcement Procedures
   
152.25   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing
   
152.26   Procedure after hearing
   
152.27   In personam remedy
   
152.28   In rem remedy
   
152.29   Appeals
   
152.30   Effect of decision of officer
   
152.31   Hearing
   
152.32   Certiorari
   
152.33   Petition to superior court by order
   
152.34   Service of complaints and orders
   
152.35   Service by publication
   
152.36   In rem action by officer; placarding
   
152.37   In rem action by officer; recording and indexing of ordinance
   
152.38   Costs to be a lien on premises
   
152.39   Alternative remedies
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Chapter 151
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FINDING.
   Pursuant to state law, it is hereby declared that there exists in the city
dwellings that are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation; defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; which buildings are dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the city.
(1997 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2003-28, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
city as authorized by state law, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish
minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized by state law.
(1997 Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2003-28, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 152.03 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Except for such amendments, additions, deletions or modifications as
may be adopted by City Council from time to time, Chapters 2 and 3 of the 1997
edition of the Standard Housing Code as published by the Southern Building Code
Congress International, Inc., is hereby adopted by reference as the guide for
minimum housing standards in the city.
   (B)   The following amendments are adopted to the 1997 Standard Housing Code
as published by the Southern Building Code International, Inc.
      (1)   Section 302.5.1 is modified as follows:
Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are properly installed,
are maintained in safe and good working conditions, and are capable of safely
and adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every dwelling unit
located therein to a temperature of at least 68ºF (20ºC) at a distance 3 feet
(914 mm) above floor level, under minimum winter conditions. Portable kerosene
heaters and portable electric heaters are not acceptable as a permanent primary
source of heat but may be used as a supplementary source in single family and
duplex units.
      (2)   Section 302.9 is modified as follows:
Every dwelling unit shall be provided with approved listed single stage smoke
detectors, one on each level of the dwelling and additional ones in interior
enclosed stairwells, hallways and other common areas of multiple-unit dwellings
installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations and listing.
When activated, the detector shall provide an audible alarm. The detector shall
be tested in accordance with and meet the requirements of UL 217 (1989), Single
and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
      (3)   Section 303.4 is modified as follows:
Every residential dwelling structure shall have electrical service provided and
supplied, every habitable room space shall contain at least two separate and
remote receptacle outlets. Bedrooms shall have, in addition, at least one wall
switch controlled lighting outlet. In kitchens, two separate and remote
receptacle outlets shall be provided (receptacles rendered inaccessible by
appliances fastened in place or by appliances occupying dedicated space shall
not be considered as these required outlets) and a wall or ceiling lighting
outlet controlled by a wall switch shall be provided. Every hall, water closet
compartment, bathroom, laundry room or furnace room shall contain at least one
ceiling-mounted or wall-mounted lighting outlet. In bathrooms the lighting
outlet shall be controlled by a wall switch. In addition to the lighting outlet
in every bathroom and laundry room, there shall be provided at least one
receptacle outlet. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault
circuit interrupter protection. All outlets, switches, wiring and light
fixtures shall be safe and operable. No extension cords shall be spliced or
used as fixed wiring of a dwelling. Electrical odor, flickering lights, visibly
frayed wiring, or failure of circuit tester check shall be evidence of an
unsafe electrical system.
      (4)   Section 304.1 is added under Section 304:
304.1 Electric Service
Adequate electrical service must be provided to the dwelling. “Adequate” means
a one hundred (100) ampere service. If the connected electrical load exceeds
the capacity of a one hundred (100) ampere service, a service of sufficient
capacity to safely bear the connected load shall be furnished. “Edison base”
fuses shall not be permitted as components of any modified or updated
electrical service, and no more than one (1) two-wire branch circuit shall be
connected to any fuse, circuit breaker or other approved overcurrent protection
device.
      (5)   Section 304.2 is added under Section 304:
Section 304.2 New or Additional Outlets or Fixtures
Every new or additional electrical outlet and fixture required by the Code
shall be installed, maintained and connected to a source of electrical power in
accordance with the provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (6)   Section 304.3 is added under Section 304:
304.3 Electrical Service Upgrade
The requirements of 304.1 shall be met if a structure is determined to be
dilapidated; has major structural problems requiring removal or relocation of
electrical service panel; is substantially damaged by fire; undergoes a major
renovation; has major electrical problems or is subject to an overload
situation described in this paragraph. Otherwise, dwelling units shall be
provided with a minimum sixty (60) ampere service with no more than five (5)
two-wire branch circuits connected and a total demand load of less than eleven
and one half (11.5) kilowatts. If a service has six or more two-wire branch
circuits, one hundred (100) ampere service at a minimum must be provided. If
the connected electrical load exceeds the capacity of a one hundred (100)
ampere a service of sufficient ampere capacity to safely bear the connected
electrical load shall furnished. Drop cords from a neighborhood source,
generator or similar source are not “adequate” for the purpose of this Code.
      (7)   Section 305.16.1 is modified as follows:
Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof,
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair and shall be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
Interior walls that are painted or covered shall be free from peeling covering
and/or paint.
(1997 Code, § 152.03) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2003-28, passed 9-9-2003)
§ 152.04 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found to
be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the city,
the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city shall prevail.
(1997 Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 152.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER GENERALLY.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail,
neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and close
and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and
served as provided in this chapter, within the time specified in each order.
(1997 Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.06 UNLAWFUL OCCUPANCY.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with
respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to this chapter, to occupy
or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed in such order for
its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and closing.
(1997 Code, § 152.06) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 EQUITABLE REMEDY.
In addition to the penalty established by this code and the remedies provided
by other provisions of this chapter, this chapter may be enforced by an
appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1997 Code, § 152.07) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 152.08 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The Planning and Development Department is hereby designated to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers
herein prescribed. The Planning and Development Department is authorized to
exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purpose and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning and Development Department shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwelling
units located in the city, in order to determine which dwellings and dwelling
units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying out the
objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing or demolition of
such dwellings and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with §
152.09 and state law, and shall be made in such manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and
employees as he deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter, and to delegate any of his functions and powers to such officers,
agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
City Council.
(1997 Code, § 152.08) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.09 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Planning and Development
Department is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times, all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the
premises associated therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Planning and Development Department free access to such
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of such dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provision of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 152.09) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.10 REPAIR OF DAMAGED STRUCTURES.
   Any structure involved in a fire that causes substantial damage to the
structure shall be repaired in accordance with the requirements of the State
Building Code or demolished and removed within 90 days. Repair or demolition of
structures with verified pending insurance claims shall not exceed a period of
135 days, unless an extension is approved by City Council.
(1997 Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 2003-28, passed 9-9-2003)
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 152.25 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION; NOTICE; HEARING.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Planning and Development Department by
a public authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that any
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears
to the Planning and Development Department, upon inspection, that any dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, it shall, if its preliminary
inspection discloses a basis of such charges, issue and cause to be served upon
the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Planning and Development Department at a place therein fixed,
not less than ten nor more than 30 days after serving of the complaint; that
the owner and any party of interest shall have the right to file an answer to
the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the
place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Planning and Development Department. Notice of such hearing shall
also be given to at least one of the persons signing the petition relating to
such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
(1997 Code, § 152.16) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2003-28, passed 9-9-2003; Ord.
2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.26 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING.
   (A)   After the holding of a hearing under §
152.16, the Planning and Development Department shall state in writing its
determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
   (B)   If the Planning and Development Department determines that the
dwelling or dwelling unit is deteriorated, it shall state in writing its
findings of fact in support of such determination, and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
repair, alter or improve such dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the
minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter within a specified
period of time, not to exceed 90 days. Such order may also direct and require
the owner to vacate and close such dwelling or dwelling unit until such
repairs, alterations and improvements have been made.
   (C)   If the Planning and Development Department determines the dwelling is
dilapidated, it stall state in writing its findings of fact to support such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
(1997 Code, § 152.17) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.27 IN PERSONAM REMEDY.
   If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail to
comply with an order of the Planning and Development Department to repair,
alter or improve, or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Planning and Development Department to repair,
alter or improve, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within
the time specified therein, the Planning and Development Department may submit
to the City Council at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the City
Attorney to petition the superior court for an order directing such owner to
comply with the order of the Planning and Development Department.
(1997 Code, § 152.18) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.28 IN REM REMEDY.
   After the failure of an owner of a deteriorated or dilapidated dwelling or
dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Planning and Development
Department within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in §
152.18, the Planning and Development Department shall submit to the City
Council an ordinance ordering the Planning and Development Department to cause
such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated,
closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the
inspector, and pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on such
dwelling.
(1997 Code, § 152.19) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.29 APPEALS.
   An appeal from any decision or order of the Planning and Development
Department may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the
Planning and Development Department shall be taken within ten days from the
rendering of the decision or service of the order and shall be taken by filing
with the Planning and Development Department and with the City Council a notice
of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon
the filing of any notice of appeal under this section, the Planning and
Development Department shall forthwith transmit to the City Council all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
(1997 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.30 EFFECT OF DECISION OF OFFICER.
   When an appeal is from a decision of the Planning and Development Department
refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, its decision
shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a
decision of the Planning and Development Department requiring the person
aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the
requirement until the hearing by the City Council unless the Planning and
Development Department certifies to the Council, after the notice of appeal is
filed with it, that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy
of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of its requirement
would cause imminent peril to life or property; in which case, the requirement
shall not be suspended except by a restraining order. Such a restraining order
may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice
to the Planning and Development Department, by the City Council, or by a court
of record upon petition made pursuant to §
152.24.
(1997 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.31 HEARING.
   The City Council shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals
under this chapter, shall give due notice to all the parties and shall render
its decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by
agent or attorney. The City Council may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the decision or order appealed from and may make such decision and
order as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the matter; and, to that end, it
shall have all the powers of the Planning and Development Department, but the
concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of the City Council shall be
necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Planning and
Development Department. The City Council shall have the power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter to adapt the application of
the chapter of the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial
justice done.
(1997 Code, § 152.22) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.32 CERTIORARI.
   Every decision of the City Council concerning an appeal under this chapter
shall be subject to review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
instituted within 15 days of the decision of the City Council but not
otherwise.
(1997 Code, § 152.23) (Ord. passed - -1997)
§ 152.33 PETITION TO SUPERIOR COURT BY ORDER.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Planning and Development
Department or a decision rendered by the City Council shall have the right,
within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to
petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the officer
pending a final disposition of the cause.
(1997 Code, § 152.24) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.34 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
Complaints and orders issued by the Planning and Development Department under
this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or
certified mail.
(1997 Code, § 152.25) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.35 SERVICE BY PUBLICATION.
   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown
and cannot be ascertained by the Planning and Development Department in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Planning and Development Department
makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order
upon the unknown owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city at least once, no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under the provision of
this chapter. When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby
affected.
(1997 Code, § 152.26) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.36 IN REM ACTION BY OFFICER; PLACARDING.
After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an
order of the Planning and Development Department issued pursuant to the
provision of this chapter, and upon adoption by the City Council of an
ordinance authorizing and directing it to do so, as provided by §
152.19, the Planning and Development Department shall proceed to cause such
dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with
the minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated
and closed and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the City
Council, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling
unit a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 152.27) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.37 IN REM ACTION BY OFFICER; RECORDING AND INDEXING OF ORDINANCE.
   Each ordinance adopted under §
152.27 shall be recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
(1997 Code, § 152.28) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.38 COSTS TO BE A LIEN ON PREMISES.
The cost of any repairs, alterations or improvements, or of vacating and
closing, or removal or demolition, caused to be made or done by the Planning
and Development Department shall be a lien against the real property upon which
such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have priority and be
collected in the same manner as the lien for special assessments established by
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(1997 Code, § 152.29) (Ord. passed - -1997; Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010)
§ 152.39 ALTERNATE REMEDIES.
Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair or
limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4, and the enforcement
of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other
remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinance or laws.
(1997 Code, § 152.30) (Ord. passed - -1997)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city subdivision ordinance, adopted January 1, 1998, and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of said subdivision ordinance are available for public
inspection during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 1-1-1998)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
   
154.02   Extraterritorial jurisdiction expansion
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The land use ordinance of the city, adopted January 1, 1998, revised
July 9, 2013, and all amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of said zoning code are available for public inspection during
normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. passed 1-1-1998; Ord. 2008-17, passed 4-22-2008;
Ord. 2010-26, passed 12-14-2010; Ord. passed 7-9-2013)
§ 154.02 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION EXPANSION.
   The extraterritorial planning jurisdiction as shown on the official zoning
maps for the city was adopted by the City Council on June 20, 2017. The
previous official zoning maps for the city adopted by City Council on February
11, 1992, were expanded to include areas one and two, as shown on the
Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction Map adopted by the City Council on March
14, 1995, and also described in Attachment A of the resolution adopted by the
City Council on March 14, 1995, and adopted by the County Board of
Commissioners on April 3, 1996.
(1997 Code, § 154.02) (Ord. passed 7-11-1995)
CHAPTER 155: SIGNS
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The sign ordinance of the city, adopted January 1, 1998, and all
amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this
code as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Copies of said sign ordinance are available for public inspection
during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code, § 155.01) (Ord. passed 1-1-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1997 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
1-593                            10.12
14-4                             10.99,
                                 152.39
14-4(a)                          10.99
14-202.10                        116.02
14-269                           131.04
14-316.1                         132.99
Ch. 14, Article 54B              98.55
18B-1001                         119.01
Ch. 20                           70.01
20-37.5                          71.28
20-37.6                          71.28
20-97(a)                         Charter, §
                                 8.1
20-145                           70.06
20-146                           70.06
                                 90.09,
20-219.11                        90.17,
                                 90.18
20-280                           114.017,
                                 114.024
Ch. 44A                          90.11
Ch. 67                           91.15
Chapter 67, Article 1            91.51
67-4.1(c)                        91.15
Chapter 67, Article 2            91.51
Ch. 93B                          117.08
Ch. 105                          32.99
105-33 et seq.                   110.11
Ch. 105, Article 5, Subchapter 1 32.22
105-164.3(7)(a))                 32.15
105-187.1(a)(3)                  32.15
105-187.1(a)(4)                  32.15
                                 Charter, §
105-349                          5.3;
                                 32.15,
                                 34.03
105-350                          Charter, §
                                 5.3
121-5                            117.18
130A-184 to 130A-200             91.51
153A-153                         91.51
159-9                            34.04
159-24 to 159-38                 31.083
159-24                           34.01
159-25                           Charter, §
                                 5.4
160A-1                           Charter, §
                                 1.2
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2  Charter, §
                                 1.4
                                 Charter, §§
160A-10                          6.1,
                                 6.3
160A-63                          Charter, §
                                 2.6
160A-74                          Charter, §
                                 2.5
160A-75                          Charter, §
                                 2.5
160A-147 through 160A-151        34.04
160A-171                         34.01
160A-173                         34.02
160A-174                         130.03
160A-175                         115.99
                                 70.99,
                                 91.99,
                                 95.99,
160A-175(c)                      96.99,
                                 97.99,
                                 117.24,
                                 130.99,
                                 131.99
160A-175(d)                      117.24
160A-185                         31.110
160A-193                         96.07
160A-193(a)                      96.06
160A-193(b)                      96.06
160A-205.3                       119.01
160A-208.1                       32.18
160A-215.1                       32.16
160A-215.1(b)                    32.21
160A-215.1(d)                    32.22
160A-215.1(e)(1)                 32.15
160A-215.1(e)(2)                 32.15
160A-215.1(f)                    32.99
160A-266                         Charter, §
                                 9.1
160A-303                         90.02
160A-303.2                       90.02
160A-311                         33.01
160A-317                         51.01,
                                 51.02
160A-439                         96.08
160A-443                         96.08
Ch. 160A, Art. 5, Part 3         30.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10                152.38
163-106                          30.02
163A-700 et seq.                 Charter, §
                                 3.1
164-7                            10.14
168-4.2                          91.12
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code Section 2019 Code Section
1997 Code Section 2019 Code Section
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.15             30.15
30.16             30.16
30.17             30.17
30.18             30.18
31.001            31.001
31.002            31.002
31.010            31.015
31.011            31.016
31.020            31.030
31.021            31.031
31.022            31.032
31.023            31.032
31.024            31.032
31.041            31.061
31.042            31.062
31.043            31.063
31.044            31.064
31.045            31.065
31.046            31.066
31.050            31.080
31.051            31.081
31.052            31.081
31.053            31.083
31.054            31.083
31.065            31.095
31.066            31.096
31.067            31.097
31.068            31.098
31.069            31.099
31.100            31.110
32.01             32.01
32.15             32.15
32.16             32.16
32.17             32.17
32.18             32.18
32.19             32.19
32.20             32.20
32.21             32.21
32.22             32.22
32.99             32.99
34.01             33.01
35.01             34.01
35.02             34.02
35.03             34.03
35.04             34.04
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.04
50.05             50.05
51.01             51.01
51.02             51.02
51.03             51.03
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.04             70.04
70.05             70.05
70.06             70.06
70.07             70.07
70.21             70.21
70.22             70.22
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.06             71.06
71.35             71.20
71.36             71.21
71.37             71.22
71.39             71.24
71.40             71.25
71.41             71.26
71.42             71.27
72.01             72.01
72.03             72.03
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.07
72.08             72.08
72.09             72.09
72.10             72.10
72.11             72.11
72.12             72.12
72.20             72.25
72.21             72.26
72.22             72.27
72.35             72.40
72.36             72.41
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
72.20             Ch. 74, Sch. I
72.21             Ch. 74, Sch. I
90.19             90.01 -
                  90.18
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.07             91.07
91.08             91.08
91.09             91.09
91.10             91.10
91.11             91.11
91.12             91.12
91.13             91.13
91.14             91.14
91.15             91.15
91.20             91.30
91.21             91.31
91.22             91.32
91.23             91.33
91.24             91.34
91.25             91.35
91.26             91.36
91.35             91.50
91.36             91.51
91.38             91.52
91.39             91.53
91.40             91.54
91.41             91.55
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.06             92.06
92.07             92.07
92.15             92.20
92.16             92.21
92.17             92.22
92.30             92.35
92.31             92.36
92.32             92.37
92.33             92.38
92.34             92.39
92.35             92.40
92.36             92.41
92.37             92.42
92.38             92.43
92.39             92.44
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.15             93.15
93.16             93.16
93.17             93.17
93.30             93.30
93.31             93.31
93.32             93.32
93.33             93.33
93.34             93.34
93.45             93.45
93.46             93.45
93.55             93.60
93.56             93.61
94.02             94.02
94.15             94.15
94.16             94.16
94.17             94.17
94.18             94.18
94.19             94.19
94.20             94.20
94.21             94.21
94.22             94.22
94.23             94.23
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
95.04             95.04
95.99             95.99
97.01             97.01
97.02             97.02
97.03             97.03
97.04             97.04
97.05             97.05
97.15             97.20
97.20             97.35
97.25             97.50
97.98             97.98
97.99             97.99
98.01             98.01
98.02             98.02
98.03             98.03
98.04             98.04
98.05             98.05
98.06             98.06
98.08             98.07
98.09             98.08
98.20             98.20
98.21             98.21
98.22             98.22
98.35             98.35
98.36             98.36
98.37             98.37
98.50             98.50
98.51             98.51
98.52             98.52
98.53             98.53
98.54             98.54
98.55             98.55
98.56             98.56
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.09            110.09
110.10            110.10
110.11            110.11
111.10            111.15
111.11            111.16
111.12            111.17
111.13            111.18
111.14            111.19
111.25            111.30
111.26            111.31
111.27            111.32
111.28            111.33
111.29            111.34
111.30            111.35
111.31            111.36
111.32            111.37
111.33            111.38
111.35            111.40
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.04            112.04
114.01            114.001
114.10            114.015
114.11            114.016
114.12            114.017
114.13            114.017
114.14            114.019
114.15            114.020
114.16            114.021
114.17            114.022
114.18            114.023
114.19            114.024
114.20            114.025
114.30            114.040
114.31            114.041
114.32            114.042
114.33            114.043
114.34            114.044
114.35            114.045
114.36            114.046
114.37            114.047
114.50            114.060
114.51            114.061
114.52            114.062
114.53            114.063
114.54            114.064
114.55            114.065
114.56            114.066
114.70            114.080
114.71            114.081
114.72            114.082
114.73            114.083
114.74            114.084
114.75            114.085
114.76            114.085
114.86            114.100
114.87            114.101
115.01            115.01
115.02            115.02
115.03            115.03
115.15            115.15
115.99            115.99
116.01            116.01
116.02            116.02
116.03            116.03
116.04            116.04
116.05            116.05
116.06            116.06
116.07            116.07
116.08            116.08
116.09            116.09
116.10            116.10
116.11            116.11
116.12            116.12
116.13            116.13
116.14            116.14
116.15            116.15
116.16            116.16
116.17            116.17
116.18            116.18
116.19            116.19
116.20            116.20
116.21            116.21
116.22            116.22
116.23            116.23
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.99            130.99
131.01            131.01
131.02            131.02
131.03            131.03
131.04            131.04
131.99            131.99
150.01            150.001
150.15            150.015
150.16            150.016
150.18            150.017
150.19            150.018
150.20            150.019
150.21            150.020
150.22            150.021
150.23            150.022
150.35            150.035
150.36            150.036
150.37            150.037
150.38            150.038
150.39            150.039
150.40            150.040
150.41            150.041
150.42            150.042
150.43            150.043
150.55            150.055
150.56            150.056
150.57            150.057
150.58            150.058
150.59            150.059
150.60            150.060
150.61            150.061
150.62            150.062
150.63            150.063
150.64            150.064
150.75            150.075
150.76            150.076
150.77            150.077
150.78            150.078
150.79            150.079
150.80            150.080
150.81            150.081
150.82            150.082
150.83            150.083
150.84            150.084
151.01            151.01
152.01            152.01
152.02            152.02
152.03            152.03
152.04            152.04
152.05            152.05
152.06            152.06
152.07            152.07
152.08            152.08
152.09            152.09
152.10            152.10
152.16            152.25
152.17            152.26
152.18            152.27
152.19            152.28
152.20            152.29
152.21            152.30
152.22            152.31
152.23            152.32
152.24            152.33
152.25            152.34
152.26            152.35
152.27            152.36
152.28            152.37
152.29            152.38
152.30            152.39
153.01            153.01
154.01            154.01
154.02            154.02
155.01            155.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed  Code Section
–      4-12-1988      97.20
–      4-12-1988      97.98
–      6-13-1989      31.110
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         31.001,
                     31.002
–      - -         31.080 -
                     31.083
–      - -         31.095 -
                     31.099
–      - -         50.05
                     72.01,
–      - -         72.05,
                     72.12
–      - -         110.11
                     114.015,
                     114.017,
                     114.020,
                     114.023,
–      - -         114.024,
                     114.041,
                     114.044,
                     114.066,
                     114.080,
                     114.082
–      - -         116.11
–      - -         130.03,
                     130.99
                     131.01,
–      - -         131.04,
                     131.99
–      - -         150.001
–      8-6-1974    153.01
–      6-30-1975   92.22,
                     92.42
–      8-26-1975   30.02
–      11-9-1976   72.05
–      2-8-1977    31.096 -
                     31.099
–      4-11-1978   151.01
–      4-19-1978   95.99
–      4-19-1978   97.01 -
                     97.05
–      4-19-1978   131.99
                     114.001,
                     114.015 -
                     114.025,
                     114.040 -
                     114.047,
–      1-9-1979    114.060 -
                     114.066,
                     114.080 -
                     114.086,
                     114.100,
                     114.101
                     94.15 -
–      3-11-1980   94.22,
                     94.99
–      4-12-1983   115.01 -
                     115.03
–      3-13-1984   50.03
–      5-14-1985   131.99
                     91.01 -
                     91.08,
–      3-14-1989   91.30 -
                     91.34,
                     91.50 -
                     91.55
                     92.01 -
                     92.07,
–      3-14-1989   92.20,
                     92.21,
                     92.39 -
                     92.44
–      9-21-1989   92.05
–      9-11-1990   31.031
–      7-9-1991    97.35
–      11-12-1991  92.05
–      2-11-1992   154.01,
                     155.01
–      8-11-1992   131.03
–      7-11-1995   154.02
–      - -1997     90.01 -
                     90.18
                     91.01,
–      - -1997     91.09 -
                     91.11
                     92.01,
–      - -1997     92.05,
                     92.20,
                     94.23
–      - -1997     98.08
–      - -1997     99.01 -
                     99.09
                     152.01 -
–      - -1997     152.09,
                     152.25 -
                     152.39
–      11-6-1997   116.01 -
                     116.23
1998-01  1-13-1998   30.16
–      1-26-1999   91.12
–      2-23-1999   92.04,
                     92.20
                     91.01,
                     91.03,
–      4-13-1999   91.05,
                     91.14,
                     91.15,
                     91.51
–      5-25-1999   96.35 -
                     96.38
2000-23  8-8-2000    99.01 -
                     99.09
2000-24  8-8-2000    91.99,
                     95.99
                     32.15 -
2000-29  10-10-2000  32.22,
                     32.99
–      6-12-2001   91.01,
                     91.05
–      9-11-2001   96.99
                     97.50,
–      10-23-2001  97.98,
                     97.99
                     72.25,
–      4-9-2002    72.40,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
–      10-22-2002  30.16
–      11-12-2002  31.060 -
                     31.066
                     152.01 -
2003-28  9-9-2003    152.03,
                     152.10,
                     152.25
                     91.01 -
                     91.15,
                     91.30 -
2006-24  6-13-2006   91.36,
                     91.50 -
                     91.55,
                     91.99
–      8-11-2006   96.38
2007.04  2-13-2007   50.04
2008-15  4-22-2008   72.05
2008.16  4-22-2008   96.22
2008-17  4-22-2008   154.01
2008-09  6-24-2008   111.01
2008-13  9-23-2008   72.04
2008-18  11-25-2008  92.01,
                     92.05
                     132.01 -
2008-20  12-9-2008   132.06,
                     132.99
2010-03  1-2-2010    31.125 -
                     31.129
                     96.01 -
                     96.06,
                     96.20,
2010-13  6-8-2010    96.21,
                     96.35 -
                     96.38,
                     96.99
2010-16  7-13-2010   96.04
2010-21  10-5-2010   98.03
2010-23  11-9-2010   98.03,
                     131.01
                     31.032,
                     31.129,
                     32.15,
                     50.01,
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
                     95.01,
                     96.37,
                     98.05,
                     98.08,
                     98.52,
                     150.017,
                     150.019,
                     150.021,
2010-26  12-14-2010  150.022,
                     150.035 -
                     150.040,
                     150.043,
                     150.055 -
                     150.062,
                     150.064,
                     150.075 -
                     150.084,
                     152.08,
                     152.09,
                     152.25 -
                     152.31,
                     152.33 -
                     152.38,
                     154.01
2012.03  2-14-2012   96.02
2012-10  - -         110.11
2012-14  7-10-2012   110.11
–      9-11-2012   92.20
2013-06  5-14-2013   110.11
2014-01  2-18-2014   131.05,
                     131.06
2014-06  5-5-2014    91.11
2015-01  2-3-2015    97.01
2015-03  5-19-2015   97.20
2015-05  6-2-2015    70.99,
                     99.08
2015-08  6-16-2015   30.16
2015-09  7-21-2015   110.11
2016-03  1-19-2016   97.99
2016-06  3-1-2016    97.65
                     113.01,
                     117.01 -
2016-08  5-3-2016    117.25,
                     118.01 -
                     118.10
2016-12  5-17-2016   91.16
2018.08  12-18-2018  98.55
2020.05  4-21-2020   96.36
2020.09  12-1-2020   119.01
2020.10  12-15-2020  30.16
2021.01  1-19-2021   30.16
                    
 
