ROCKINGHAM, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. -, passed - -2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY CHARTER
Editor’s Note:
   Printed herein is the charter of the city being Session Laws 1974, Chapter
1265, ratified by the General Assembly on April 11, 1974 and effective on April
11, 1974. Amendments to the charter are indicated by parenthetical history
notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates
that the provision derives unchanged from the original act. A uniform system of
punctuation and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been
corrected without notation and material in brackets ( ) has been added for
clarity.
ARTICLE I.
INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
SEC. 1.1. INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS.
   The Town of Rockingham shall continue to be a body politic and corporate
under the name of the “City of Rockingham,” and shall continue to be vested
with all property and rights which now belong to the city; shall have perpetual
succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at pleasure;
may sue and be sued; may contract; may acquire and hold all such property, real
and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or
dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from time to time hold or
invest, sell, or dispose of the same; and shall have and may exercise in
conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights,
privileges and immunities of every name and nature whatsoever.
SEC. 1.2. EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges and immunities of the city, its
officers, agencies, or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided
by this Charter, or if this Charter makes no provisions, as provided by the
general laws of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations, their
officers, agencies or employees, and as provided by ordinance or resolution of
the city council.
ARTICLE II.
CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
SEC. 2.1. EXISTING CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the City of Rockingham are set out on a map entitled
“Boundary Map of the City of Rockingham, North Carolina.” The map is maintained
in the office of the city clerk, as required by G.S. section 160A-22.
ARTICLE III.
CHARTER AMENDMENTS
SEC. 3.1. INCORPORATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   As soon as possible after the adjournment of each General Assembly,
the city attorney shall present to the city council copies of all local laws
relating to the City of Rockingham that were enacted by such General Assembly,
whether or not amending in terms this Charter, which he recommends be
incorporated into this Charter. Such recommendations may include suggestions
for renumbering or arranging the provisions of such laws, for providing titles
and catchlines, and for such other changes in arrangement and form that do not
change the law as may be necessary to implement the purpose of this article.
   (b)   After considering the recommendations of the city attorney, the city
council may provide for the incorporation of such laws into this Charter.
   (c)   The purpose of this section is to enable the city to maintain at all
times a current and accurate city Charter, organized in clear and orderly
fashion, and embracing all pertinent local laws relating to the city.
ARTICLE IV.
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SEC. 4.1. COMPOSITION OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (a)   The qualified voters of the City of Rockingham shall at each regular
municipal election elect a mayor and members of the city council as hereinafter
provided.
   (b)   The mayor and the members of the city council shall be elected from
the city at large.
   (c)   The person receiving the highest number of votes for the office of
mayor shall be declared elected, whose term shall be for a period of two (2)
years.
   (d)   The mayor shall take the required oath of office before the city clerk
to perform faithfully the duties of the office of mayor and as required by the
general laws of North Carolina.
   (e)   The mayor shall be the official head of the city and shall preside at
all meetings of the city council. In the absence or the disability of the
mayor, the mayor pro tem shall perform his duties. In the absence or disability
of both the mayor and the mayor pro tem the council shall designate one of its
members to perform such duties. In the event of the resignation of the mayor
the members of the council shall by a majority vote elect a mayor as provided
by the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina.
   (f)   The city council shall consist of five (5) members. In 2003, two
candidates shall be elected for four-year terms and one candidate shall be
elected for a two-year term. In 2005, and each regular municipal election held
biennially thereafter, two candidates shall be elected for four-year terms and
one candidate shall be elected for a two-year term. In each election, the two
candidates receiving the highest numbers of votes shall be elected for four-
year terms and the one candidate receiving the third highest number of votes
shall be elected for a two-year term. Members shall serve until their
successors are elected and qualified. Elections shall be conducted by the
nonpartisan plurality method and the results determined in accordance with G.S.
163-292.
(Sec. 4.1(f) amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
SEC. 4.2. ORGANIZATION OF CITY COUNCIL; OATHS OF OFFICE.
   The city council shall at 7:30 p.m. at the regular meeting in December
following the date of their election meet and organize for the transaction of
official municipal business. Before entering upon their offices the councilmen
shall severally take the required oath before the city clerk to perform
faithfully the duties of their respective offices. Any elected councilman not
present at the organization meeting may take the oath of office within 30 days,
and the failure on the part of any elected councilman to take said oath within
30 days forfeits his right to the office and the council shall have the
authority to fill the vacancy.
(Sec. 4.2 amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
SEC. 4.3. QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (a)   No person shall be eligible to be elected to the office of mayor or to
serve on the city council unless he is a qualified voter under the election
laws as prescribed by the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina, and
shall have resided within the corporate limits of the City of Rockingham for
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the regular municipal election.
   (b)   If any elected council member shall refuse to be qualified or if there
is any vacancy in the office of councilman after election and qualification, or
if any councilman is unable to discharge the duties of his office, the
remaining members of the council shall elect some person to serve as councilman
in the place of the member causing the vacancy until the next regular municipal
election. At the next regular municipal election following the creation of the
vacancy, candidates for the vacated office shall file in the manner herein
provided for candidates seeking regular terms on the council, but shall file
only for the remainder of the unexpired term of the member causing the vacancy.
The person receiving the highest number of votes for the election to the office
of the person causing the vacancy shall be elected for the remainder of the
unexpired term, and until his successor is elected and qualified.
SEC. 4.4. ELECTION OF MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The mayor pro tem shall be elected by the city council from among its own
members and he shall hold such office for the term for which he has been
elected to the council. In the absence, disability, or resignation of the
mayor, the mayor pro tem shall, to the extent permitted by the General Statutes
of the State of North Carolina perform the mayor’s duties, and until a mayor
has been selected as provided in article IV, section 4.1(e) of this Charter.
SEC. 4.5. RULES OF COUNCIL; JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The city council shall determine its own rules and order of business, and
shall cause to be kept a journal of its proceedings.
SEC. 4.6. COUNCIL MEMBERS TO HOLD NO OTHER OFFICES.
   Neither the mayor nor any member of the city council shall hold any other
office or position of trust, profit, or honor under the city government.
SEC. 4.7. MEETINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (a)   The city council shall fix suitable times for its regular meetings,
which shall be at least as often as once monthly. The mayor, or any two (2)
council members may at any time call a special meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time of the meeting, to be delivered to each member or left
at his usual dwelling place at least six (6) hours before the meeting. Meetings
of the council may also be held at any time when all members are present and
consent thereto. Any business may be transacted at a special meeting that might
be transacted at a regular meeting.
   (b)   All meetings of the city council shall be public meetings and as
prescribed by the General Statutes of the State of North Carolina.
SEC. 4.8. QUORUM; VOTES.
   (a)   A majority of the members elected to the council shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members.
   (b)   The affirmative vote of a majority of the council members shall be
necessary to adopt any ordinance or to authorize the expenditure of money. All
other matters voted upon shall be decided by a majority vote of the council
members present.
   (c)   No member of the council shall be excused from voting on any matter
except a matter involving his own financial interest or official conduct.
SEC. 4.9. EXERCISE OF CITY POWERS.
   (a)   The city council shall direct the exercise of all of the powers of the
city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter.
   (b)   In addition to the specific powers herein conferred, and to other
powers conferred upon it by general law, the city council may adopt and provide
for the execution of such ordinances, rules, and regulations, not inconsistent
with this Charter, as may be necessary or appropriate for the preservation and
promotion of the health, safety, comfort, convenience, good order, better
government, and the general welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
SEC. 4.10. COMPENSATION FOR THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   The council may fix its salary and the salary of the mayor as provided by
general law.
(Sec. 4.10 amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
ARTICLE V.
NOMINATION AND ELECTION PROCEDURE
SEC. 5.1. REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Elections shall be held biennially on Tuesday after the first Monday in
November, beginning in 1975, and shall be by the nonpartisan plurality election
method. All elections and referendums of the City of Rockingham shall be held
and conducted as provided by the applicable General Statutes of North Carolina.
SEC. 5.2. RICHMOND COUNTY BOARD OF ELECTIONS TO CONDUCT ELECTIONS.
   All regular municipal elections and special elections of the City of
Rockingham shall be held and conducted by the Richmond County board of
elections as provided for in the General Statutes. Voting machines of any type
approved by the state board of elections may be used in all elections.
SEC. 5.3. SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The city council shall have power to call special elections as might be
permitted by law.
SEC. 5.4. ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   For the purpose of municipal elections the City of Rockingham shall be
divided into such precincts as the city council may from time to time designate
by proper resolution. The existing precinct and polling place shall be
continued as such until changed by the council.
SEC. 5.5. REGISTRATION BY VOTERS.
   The Richmond County board of elections shall be in charge of the
registration of voters and the registration of voters for all city elections
under the provisions of G.S. sections 163-54 through 59 and other related
General Statutes.
SEC. 5.6. NOTICE OF CANDIDACY.
   Each person offering himself as a candidate for election to any municipal
office shall do so by filing a notice of candidacy with the Richmond County
board of elections in the following form, inserting the words in parentheses
when appropriate:
               “Date                                
   I hereby file notice that I am a candidate for election to the office of
                                        ,
                                , (4-year or 2-year term if candidate in the
regular municipal election to be held in for councilman) the City of Rockingham
on                    , 19      .
               Signed                               
                     Name of Candidate
Witness:                                
For the Board of Elections.”
   Candidates may file their notices of candidacy with the Richmond County
board of elections at any time after 12:00 Noon on the Friday preceding the
eighth Saturday and before 12:00 Noon on Friday preceding the fourth Saturday
before the municipal election. At the time of filing a notice of candidacy,
each candidate shall pay to the board of elections the sum of ten dollars
($10.00).
SEC. 5.7. DUPLICATE ABSTRACTS.
   Within five (5) days after a city election the chairman of the county board
of elections shall mail to the chairman of the state board of elections the
duplicate abstract prepared in accordance with G.S. section 163-176. One (1)
copy shall be filed with the city clerk and one (1) copy shall be retained by
the county board of elections as provided by G.S. section 163-300.
SEC. 5.8. CERTIFICATES OF ELECTION.
   The county board of elections shall officially determine and publish the
results of elections in accordance with G.S. section 163-175 and G.S. section
163-179. Not earlier than five (5) days nor later than ten (10) days therefrom
the chairman of the county board of elections shall issue certificates of
election, under his hand and seal, to all municipal officers, under the
provisions of G.S. section 163-301.
ARTICLE VI.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SEC. 6.1. APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER; SALARIES.
   (a)   The city council shall appoint a city manager who shall be the
administrative head of the city government responsible for the administration
of all departments. The city manager shall be appointed with regard to merit
only, and he need not be a resident of the city at the time of his appointment,
but shall reside therein during his tenure. He shall hold office during the
pleasure of the city council and shall receive such compensation as it shall
fix by ordinance. The city manager shall:
      (1)   Be the administrative head of the city government.
      (2)   See that within the city the laws of the state and the ordinances,
resolutions and regulations of the city council are faithfully executed.
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the city council, and recommend for adoption
such measures as he shall deem expedient.
      (4)   Make reports to the city council from time to time upon the affairs
of the city, and keep the council fully advised of the city’s financial
condition and its future financial needs.
      (5)   Appoint and remove all employees of the city except the city
attorney and the city clerk, who shall be appointed by the city council, and
report all appointments and removals made by him to the council at its next
meeting.
      (6)   Perform all other duties as may be required by the city council.
   (b)   Salaries and compensation of all officials and employees shall be
fixed by the council.
SEC. 6.2. CITY ATTORNEY.
   The city council shall appoint a city attorney licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the city attorney to represent the
city, advise city officials, and perform other duties as required by law or as
the council may prescribe.
(Sec. 6.2 amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
SEC. 6.3. CITY CLERK.
   The city clerk shall be appointed by the city council, and shall have the
following duties:
   (1)   To act as clerk to the council, to attend all meetings thereof, and to
maintain a permanent record of all proceedings thereof.
   (2)   To keep the books of account of the city.   
SEC. 6.4. CITY FINANCE OFFICER.
   The city finance officer shall be appointed by the city manager and shall
receive and keep all moneys belonging to the city and disburse the same
according to law, and keep the manager advised of the status of all funds.
Whenever this charter or any ordinance, resolution, or other document refers to
the city treasurer, the reference shall be deemed to refer to the city finance
officer.
(Sec. 6.4 amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
SEC. 6.5. CITY TAX COLLECTOR.
   The city council shall appoint a tax collector for the city, who shall be
charged with the collection of all taxes and assessments, and shall work under
the direct supervision of the city manager.
SEC. 6.6. CONSOLIDATING OF FUNCTIONS OF CERTAIN OFFICES.
(Sec. 6.6 deleted by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
SEC. 6.7. OATH OF OFFICE REQUIRED.
   Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, the holders of the
following offices and positions shall be required to take the oath prescribed
for public officers, before the mayor or the city clerk: the city manager, city
clerk, city treasurer, tax collector, any assistant city clerk or assistant tax
collector, or assistant city treasurer, chief of police and each member of the
police force, the building inspector, and all employees empowered to enforce
the building code.
ARTICLE VII.
TAXATION
SEC. 7.1. POWERS OF TAXATION.
   The city shall have all taxing power and authority delegated to municipal
corporations by general law.
SEC. 7.2. PAYMENT OF DELINQUENT TAXES INTO GENERAL FUND.
   The city council may, in its discretion, direct the payment into the general
fund of the city all or any part of the proceeds of ad valorem taxes which are,
when collected, three (3) or more years delinquent.
SEC. 7.3. ADDITIONAL REMEDIES FOR COLLECTION OF PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES.
   In addition to any other civil or criminal remedy available to enforce the
collection of privilege license taxes, the tax collector may employ the
remedies of levy upon personal property, attachment, and garnishment, in the
manner and subject to the limitations provided by general law for the
collection of ad valorem taxes.
ARTICLE VIII.
STREET IMPROVEMENTS: ASSESSMENTS FOR COST
SEC. 8.1. AUTHORITY.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by
general law to the City of Rockingham for making street improvements, the city
council is authorized to make street improvements, and assess the cost thereof
against abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
SEC. 8.2. WHEN PETITION UNNECESSARY.
   The city council may order street improvements and assess the cost thereof,
exclusive of the cost incurred at street intersections, against the abutting
property owners at an equal rate per front foot, without the necessity of a
petition, upon the findings by the council as a fact:
   (a)   That the street improvement project does not exceed twelve hundred
(1200) lineal feet.
   (b)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic and
it is in the public interest to make such improvement.
   (c)   That it is in the public interest to connect two (2) streets or
portions of a street already improved.
   (d)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street or part thereof,
which is already improved, provided, that assessment for widening any street or
portion of street without petition shall be limited to the cost of widening and
otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street classification
and improvement standards established by the city’s thoroughfare or major
street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened and
improved under the authority granted by this section.
SEC. 8.3. STREET IMPROVEMENTS DEFINED.
   For the purposes of the preceding section, the term “street improvements”
shall include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving,
repaving, and the construction or reconstruction of curbs, gutters and street
drainage facilities.
SEC. 8.4. ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   In ordering street improvements without a petition and assessing the cost
thereof under authority of this article, the city council shall comply with the
procedure provided by article 10, chapter 160A of the General Statutes, except
those provisions relating to the petition of property owners and the
sufficiency thereof.
SEC. 8.5. EFFECT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   The effect of the act of levying assessments under the authority of this
article shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were levied
under the authority of Article 10, Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
ARTICLE IX.
ESTABLISHMENT OF PROPOSED STREET LINES
SEC. 9.1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PROPOSED STREET LINES.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the city council, it is in the best interest of
the city to do so, the council may make provision for the ultimate widening or
extension or both of existing streets and for the opening of new streets, and
for the gradual acquisition of the lands necessary for such improvements, in
accordance with the procedure established by this article.
SEC. 9.2. PLATTING OF PROPOSED STREET LINES.
   From and after the time of adoption of a major street plan by the city
council and the State Highway Commission pursuant to provisions of G.S. section
136-66.2, and as amended, the city council shall have power to request, make,
or cause to be made, from time to time, surveys for the exact locating of the
lines of new, extended, widened, or narrowed streets and highways in the whole
or any portion of the city and the area within one (1) mile outside of its
corporate boundaries. Personnel making such surveys are empowered to enter upon
lands, make examinations or surveys, and place and maintain necessary monuments
thereon, at reasonable times and with due care for the property. A plat or
plats of the area or areas thus surveyed shall be prepared on which are
indicated the locations of the lines recommended as the planned or mapped lines
of future streets, street extensions, street widenings or street narrowings.
The preparation of such plat or plats shall not in and of itself constitute or
be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any street or the
taking or acceptance of any land for street purposes.
SEC. 9.3. ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL MAP; HEARING; NOTICE.
   Following the preparation of such plats, the city council may officially
adopt a map or maps of planned new streets and highways, extensions, widenings,
narrowings, or vacations of streets within the city and the area within one (1)
mile outside of its corporate boundaries. Before taking any such action, the
council shall hold a public hearing thereon, notice of the time and a place of
which shall have been given once a week for two (2) successive weeks in a
newspaper published in the city, or if there be no newspaper published in the
city, by posting such notice at four (4) public places in the city and at four
(4) public places within the affected area outside of the corporate boundaries.
Said notice shall be published or posted for the first time not less than
fifteen (15) days prior to the date fixed for said hearing. Following adoption
of such a map or maps, the council shall certify a copy to the register of
deeds of Richmond County, which copy shall be duly filed. The placing of any
street or street line upon any official map or maps shall not in and of itself
constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any
street or the taking or acceptance of any land for street purposes.
SEC. 9.4. RIGHT OF CITY TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY BEFORE IMPROVEMENT.
   From and after the time of adoption and certification to the register of
deeds of any such map or maps, it shall be unlawful to build upon any land
within the lines of proposed streets shown thereon or to repair or otherwise
improve any existing buildings within said lines until the city council shall
have been given an opportunity to purchase or otherwise acquire said property
for street purposes as provided by this article. To that end, any person
proposing to build upon such land or to make repairs, or improvements to any
existing building on such land shall, in writing, notify the city council of
the nature and estimated cost of such building, repairs, or improvements. The
council shall then determine whether it will take the necessary steps to
acquire said land prior to construction of said building or the making of said
repairs or improvements. If the council fails, within sixty (60) days from the
receipt of such notice, to acquire, adopt a formal resolution directing an
appropriate officer to acquire, or institute condemnation proceedings to
acquire said property, then the owner or other person giving notice may proceed
to erect the building or to make the repairs or improvements described in said
notice. The building inspector is authorized to withhold and refrain from
issuing, for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days from receipt by the council
of the notice herein prescribed, any building permit for the erection of any
building within the said lines, or for the making of any repairs or
improvements to existing buildings within said lines.
SEC. 9.5. FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE BARS RECOVERY FOR VALUE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   If any person, firm or corporation builds upon any land included within said
proposed street lines, or repairs or otherwise improves that part of any
existing building within said lines, without giving the city council an
opportunity to acquire said property free from improvements, as provided in
section
9.4 of this article, the council shall not be required to pay for the value of
said buildings, repairs, or improvements in any proceeding subsequently brought
to acquire the land for the purpose shown on the officially adopted map or
maps.
SEC. 9.6. FAILURE OF CITY TO ACT; NO LIMIT TO SUBSEQUENT CONDEMNATION.
   The failure of the city council to take action under sections
9.4 and
9.5 of this article within sixty (60) days after notice shall not have the
effect of limiting the right of the council at any subsequent time to condemn
the same. In such case, however, the owner shall be entitled to full
compensation as now provided by law for the building, repairs, or improvements
made after the failure of the council to take action within the prescribed
period.
ARTICLE X.
ZONING
SEC. 10.1. EXTRATERRITORIAL ZONING.
   The city council shall have such authority to enact zoning regulations as is
granted by the general law and as provided by North Carolina General Statutes
Chapter 160A, Article 19 and amendments thereto.
ARTICLE XI.
PARKING AND PARKING FACILITIES
SEC. 11.1. AUTHORITY TO REGULATE OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The city council shall have power and authority to enact ordinances for the
regulation of the use by vehicles of:
   (a)   Municipally owned or leased off-street parking areas and facilities.
   (b)   Publicly owned off-street parks, outdoor recreation areas, and yards
and grounds occupied by public buildings.
   (c)   Privately owned areas which the city is given to use as a parking area
and used by the general public for parking or street purposes.
SEC. 11.2. CIVIL PENALTIES.
   In the exercise of the authority granted by section
11.1, the city council shall have authority to make and provide civil penalties
for violations of such ordinances, not exceeding the penalties provided by
general law for the violation of municipal ordinances.
SEC. 11.3. TOWING OF VEHICLES FROM OFF-STREET AREA; CHARGES.
   The city council may, in addition to providing civil penalties, provide that
such vehicles in violation of parking regulations at any of the places
designated in sections
11.1 and
11.2 of this article, may be towed away and the owner or person responsible
therefor required to pay the resulting towing and storage charges.
SEC. 11.4. TOWING OF VEHICLES FROM STREETS; CHARGES.
   The city council may provide by ordinance that vehicles stalled, wrecked,
abandoned, or illegally parked upon any public street may be removed therefrom
by having the same towed away to such place as may be designated by a council-
appointed city official and to require that the owner or person responsible
therefor pay the resulting towing and storage charges.
SEC. 11.5. REGISTRATION PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   The ownership of any vehicle as established by its registration with the
North Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles shall be prima facie evidence as to
the person, firm or corporation responsible for violating the provisions of any
ordinance adopted in accordance with the powers granted in this article.
SEC. 11.6. TOWING AND STORAGE FACILITIES.
   In the implementation of the authority granted by this article relating to
the removal and storage of vehicles, the city council may provide such towing
and storage facilities by and through its own forces, equipment and property,
as well as by contract with independent towing and storage contractors and
operators, and the city council may appropriate and use reasonable sums of
public funds to defray the necessary expenses thereof.
ARTICLE XII.
TRAFFIC BUREAU
SEC. 12.1. AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL TO ESTABLISH TRAFFIC BUREAU.
   (a)   The city council may by ordinance establish a traffic bureau to
process and collect civil penalties provided for violations of traffic and
parking ordinances of the city.
   (b)   No state tax shall be paid to the State of North Carolina in cases
finally disposed of by the traffic bureau.
   (c)   All civil penalties collected in the traffic bureau shall be paid into
the general fund of the city.
ARTICLE XIII.
POLICE
SEC. 13.1. POLICE JURISDICTION EXTENDED.
   (a)   The jurisdiction of the police force is hereby extended to include all
territory outside and within two (2) miles of the corporate limits, and all
members of the police force shall have within each territory all rights, power,
and authority, as they now have within the corporate limits.
   (b)   The jurisdiction of the police force is hereby extended to include all
city-owned property and facilities, whether located within or outside the
corporate limits, and all members of the police force shall have upon and
within such property and facilities all rights, power and authority as they now
have within the corporate limits.
ARTICLE XIV.
SIDEWALKS
SEC. 14.1. CITY MAY CLEAN OR REPAIR AFTER NOTICE; CHARGES A LIEN.
   The city council may, by ordinance, establish a procedure whereby city
forces may clean or repair any sidewalk upon failure of the abutting property
owner after ten (10) days’ notice to do so. In such event, the cost of such
cleaning or repair shall become a lien upon the abutting property equal to the
lien for ad valorem taxes and may thereafter be collected either by suit in the
name of the city or by foreclosure of the lien in the same manner and subject
to the same rules, regulations, cost and penalties as provided by law for the
foreclosure of the lien on real property for ad valorem taxes.
ARTICLE XV.
REFUSE, WEEDS AND TRASH
SEC. 15.1. PROPERTY KEPT FREE OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   It shall be the duty of every property owner in the city to keep his
property free from noxious weeds, trash, and all other forms of offensive
animal or vegetable matter or refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health or which may constitute a public nuisance.
SEC. 15.2. REMOVAL OF OFFENSIVE MATTER; CHARGES A LIEN.
   The city council may by ordinance establish a procedure whereby city forces
may clean, cut, and remove any weeds, trash, refuse or other offensive matter
from any property upon failure of the owner or occupant after ten (10) days’
notice to do so. In such event, the cost of such cleaning, cutting and removal
shall become a lien upon the particular property equal to the lien for ad
valorem taxes and may thereafter be collected either by suit in the name of the
city or by foreclosure of the lien in the same manner and subject to the same
rules, regulations, costs and penalties as provided by law for the foreclosure
of the lien on real property for ad valorem taxes.
ARTICLE XVI.
PURCHASING AND CONTRACTS
SEC. 16.1. PROVISIONS OF GENERAL LAW GOVERN.
   All contracts of the city for construction or repair work or for the
purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials, or equipment shall be made in
compliance with the requirements of Article 8, Chapter 143 of the General
Statutes.
SEC. 16.2. CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No officer, department head, employee, or board or commission member shall
make or participate in the making of any contract with the city in which he may
be in any manner financially interested, directly or indirectly. Any such
person who has such an interest in any proposed contract shall make known that
interest. The wilful concealment of such a financial interest or the wilful
violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in office or position,
and any violator shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of this
section with the knowledge express or implied of the person, firm, or
corporation contracting with the city shall render the contract void.
ARTICLE XVII.
CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY
SEC. 17.1. PRESENTATION OF CLAIMS; SUIT UPON CLAIMS.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the City of Rockingham arising in court
shall be presented to the city council in writing, signed by the claimant, his
attorney or agent, within ninety (90) days after the claim or demand is due or
the cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be brought thereon
within thirty (30) days or after the expiration of twelve (12) months from the
time said claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so
presented within ninety (90) days after the cause of action accrues, and unless
suit is brought within twelve (12) months thereafter, any action thereon shall
be barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the city on account of damages
to or compensation for real property taken or used by the city for any public
purpose of any kind unless, within two (2) years after such alleged use, the
owner, his executor, administrator, guardian or next friend shall have given
notice in writing to the city council of the claim, stating in the notice the
date that the alleged use commenced, a description of the property alleged to
have been used, and the amount of damage or compensation claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provision of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six (6) months after
the termination of the incapacity, provided that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained
of; or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on his behalf within six (6) months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three (3) years after the happening or the infliction of
the injury complained of, whichever is the longer period. The city may at any
time request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the city and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
SEC. 17.2. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS BY CITY MANAGER.
   The city manager, as authorized by the governing body of the city, may
settle claims against the city as provided by general law.
(Sec. 17.2 amended by the General Assembly, 5-14-01)
ARTICLE XVIII.
MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 18.1. SIGNING OF WARRANTS OR ORDERS FOR PAYMENT.
   Either the city treasurer, or any bonded official of the City of Rockingham
and who is authorized by the city council may sign warrants or orders for
payment on the city treasury or depository. In addition, in the absence of the
city clerk or other qualified and authorized official, such warrants or orders
may be signed by the mayor.
SEC. 18.2. CITY DEPOSITORIES; SIGNATURES TO VOUCHERS; SURETY BONDS.
   The city council from time to time shall have the power to designate
depositories to receive any and all funds collected or paid to the city
treasurer. The city council shall determine from time to time what security
shall be required for funds placed in a depository. The city treasurer is
authorized and empowered to sign vouchers for all obligations of the city. The
council may from time to time designate other officials of the City of
Rockingham to sign vouchers in behalf of the city. The city council shall
designate what officials of the City of Rockingham shall furnish surety bonds
and the amount of said bonds.
SEC. 18.3. BOND ELECTIONS.
   The conduct of bond elections shall be governed by the provisions of general
law relating to municipal bond elections.
SEC. 18.4. CEMETERY REGULATIONS.
   The city council may provide rules and regulations for the use of all city
cemeteries, whether located within or outside the corporate limits, and such
rules and regulations shall be enforced by the police force within said
cemeteries as city ordinances.
SEC. 18.5. INTERMENTS WITHIN CITY.
   [Section 1.]   The city council is authorized to establish, operate and
maintain cemeteries within the corporate limits as provided in article 17 of
chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   Section 2.   The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the City of
Rockingham. It is intended to continue in force without interruption those
provisions of prior local acts which are consolidated into this act, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
   Section 3.   All existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of
Rockingham, and all existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of
the City of Rockingham, not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall
continue in full force and effect until repealed, modified, or amended.
   Section 4.   No action or processing of any nature, whether civil or
criminal, judicial or administrative, or otherwise, pending at the effective
date of this act by or against the City of Rockingham or any of its departments
or agencies shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this act.
   Section 5.   If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act
are declared to be severable.
   Section 6.   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three (3) times and ratified this the 11th day
of April, 1974.
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor
John. P Hutchinson
Council Members
C. Bennett Deane
Anne M. Edwards
Denise Sullivan
A. Eugene Willard
Holly Howe
City Manager
Monty R. Crump
City Clerk
Sabrina Y. McDonald
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Rockingham shall be
designated as the Code of Rockingham, North Carolina and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of this chapter compatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code,
unless otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The charter of the City of Rockingham, North Carolina.
      CITY. The City of Rockingham, North Carolina.
      CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Rockingham, North
Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Richmond County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole
or a part of such property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes a person or persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and as
applied to corporations and the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the city and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all
municipal business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released, or discharged but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or,
in any way, affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or subsection or any portion thereof, such
repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted
pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed or omitted, in the
case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code by the city.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section            of
the Code of Ordinances, City of Rockingham, North Carolina, is hereby amended
as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, City of Rockingham, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number,
as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example:
   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1980)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town and subsequently amended, the previous code section
number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §       ).”
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or subsection of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TAXATION AND FINANCES
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body established
   
30.02   City Council duties and powers
   
30.03   Mayor to preside at meetings
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.05   Ordinances
Meetings
   
30.20   Quorum
   
30.21   Regular meetings; order of business
   
30.22   Previous questions
   
30.23   Motions
   
30.24   Special meetings
   
30.25   Adjourned meetings
Elections and Filling Positions
   
30.40   Elections and appointment by ballot
   
30.41   Vacancies; resignation
   
30.42   Vote of Mayor
   
30.43   Absentee ballots
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY ESTABLISHED.
   The governing body of the city shall consist of a Mayor and five City
Council members.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
Statutory reference:
   Composition of City Council, see G.S. § 160A-66
§ 30.02 CITY COUNCIL DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The City Council’s duties and powers are as set out by statute and by the
charter.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
Statutory reference:
   General powers and duties of Mayor and Council, see G.S. § 160A-67
§ 30.03 MAYOR TO PRESIDE AT MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, when present, shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
In case of the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem presiding over Council, see G.S. §§ 160A-69 and 160A-
70
§ 30.04 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   At the first meeting after election, the City Council shall elect one
of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem during his or her term of office, and he
or she shall, in case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, perform all
the duties of the Mayor.
   (B)   He or she shall be compensated for his or her services as prescribed
by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.05 ORDINANCES.
   Every ordinance of the city shall be in force from the date of its passage,
except as otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
MEETINGS
§ 30.20 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum of Council, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.21 REGULAR MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the Mayor and City Council
shall be on the second Tuesday of each month at 7:30 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
   (B)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business at all regular meetings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Reading of minutes of last meeting;
         (b)   Reports of committees;
         (c)   Reports of officers;
         (d)   Unfinished business;
         (e)   Reading communications; and
         (f)   New business.   
      (2)   If the City Council directs any matter to be the special business
of a future meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business
at such meeting.
      (3)   No proposition shall be entertained by the Mayor until it has been
seconded, and every proposition shall, when required by the Mayor or any
member, be reduced to writing.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
(Ord. passed 7-14-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption by Council of rules of procedure, see G.S. § 160A-71(c)
   Regular meetings of Council, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.22 PREVIOUS QUESTIONS.
   The previous questions may be called at any time by a majority of the
members present. The ayes and nays may be called for by any member.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
§ 30.23 MOTIONS.
   (A)   Motions having precedence.
      (1)   When a question is under consideration, no motion shall be received
except as follows:
         (a)   To lay on the table;
         (b)   To postpone to a time certain;
         (c)   To postpone indefinitely;
         (d)   To refer to a committee;
         (e)   To amend;
         (f)   To strike out or insert; and
         (g)   To divide.
      (2)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the
order listed in division (A)(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
   (B)   Motion to adjourn. A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and
shall be decided without debate.
(Prior Code, § 30.12)
§ 30.24 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem, or any two members of the Council may,
at any time, call a special Council meeting by signing a written notice stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (B)   The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or
left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting.
Special meetings may be held at any time when the Mayor and all members of the
Council are present and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a
written waiver of notice.
   (C)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.25 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the City
Council or if, for any reason, such meeting shall fail to complete transaction
of the business before the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to any date
prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a majority of the members
present.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
ELECTIONS AND FILLING POSITIONS
§ 30.40 ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENT BY BALLOT.
   All elections and appointments by the City Council shall be by ballot if
required by any two members present.
(Prior Code, § 30.13)
§ 30.41 VACANCIES; RESIGNATION.
   (A)   Vacancies. Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation, or
disqualification of a member of the City Council shall be filled by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.14)
   (B)   Resignation of any member of the City Council shall be in writing, and
such resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
Statutory reference:
   Vacancies in elected offices of the city, see G.S. § 160A-63
§ 30.42 VOTE OF MAYOR.
   When there is an equal division of the City Council upon any question or in
the election of officers, the Mayor may vote to break the tie, but he or she
shall have no vote under any other circumstances
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
Statutory reference:
   Vote of Mayor, see G.S. §§ 160A-69 and 160A-75
§ 30.43 ABSENTEE BALLOTS.
   Qualified registered voters shall be permitted to cast absentee ballots
under the provisions of the 1975 Session Laws of the State General Assembly,
Chapters 370 and 836.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
Statutory reference:
   Absentee voting in municipal elections, see G.S. § 163-302
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consolidation of offices
   
31.02   Conflict of interest
   
31.03   Money collected by officers
   
31.04   Committees
   
31.05   Compensation, bond, and oath
   
31.06   Term of office and removal
   
31.07   Vacancies in offices
   
31.08   Residence requirements
   
31.09   Personnel Ordinance adopted
Officers
   
31.20   City Manager
   
31.21   City Attorney
   
31.22   City Clerk
   
31.23   City Treasurer/Finance Officer
   
31.24   City Tax Collector
   
31.25   Chief of Police
   
31.26   Fire Chief
   
31.27   Building Inspector
   
31.28   Superintendent of Water and Waste Treatment Plants
Police Department
   
31.40   Officer Safety Policy adopted
   
31.41   Organization of Department; general supervision
   
31.42   Chief to assign duties; authority
   
31.43   Duties of police officers
   
31.44   May summon aid
   
31.45   Interfering with police
   
31.46   Neglect of duty
Fire Department
   
31.60   Standard operating guidelines adopted
   
31.61   Organization and composition
   
31.62   Authority of Chief
   
31.63   Rules governing Department
   
31.64   Right-of-way of fire apparatus
   
31.65   Two-mile fire protection
   
31.66   Calls outside city limits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   The City Council may, at its discretion, add an administrative office and
fix its duties, consolidate any two or more administrative offices, and
reassign its duties or terminate any office subject to the authority given the
City Manager in this code, provided that the office or the duties to be
exercised by such office were not created by charter or state law and are not
in conflict therewith.
(Prior Code, § 31.001)
§ 31.02 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city, directly or
indirectly, to become a contractor for work done for the city or to become
personally interested in or receive profit from any purchase of supplies for
any department of the city. Any such person so offending shall be removed from
office.
(Prior Code, § 31.002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.03 MONEY COLLECTED BY OFFICERS.
   All money collected by city officers and employees shall be turned over to
the City Treasurer (Finance Officer) at least daily or as provided by state
law.
(Prior Code, § 31.003)
§ 31.04 COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint such committees and assign to them such duties as he
or she deems necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the city
government.
(Prior Code, § 31.004)
§ 31.05 COMPENSATION, BOND, AND OATH.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to pay such compensation and
to require such bond and oath of all city officers and employees as it may
designate where such compensation, bond, or oath is not fixed by state law or
city charter.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of all officers and employees who
receive compensation; who are under bond, the amount and surety on the same;
and all who are required to take an oath before being admitted to office.
(Prior Code, § 31.005)
Statutory reference:
   Council to fix and approve compensation of all city employees, see G.S. §
160A-162 Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 31.06 TERM OF OFFICE AND REMOVAL.
   All employees elected or appointed by the City Council shall hold their
office at the pleasure of the Council and may be removed at any time by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.006)
§ 31.07 VACANCIES IN OFFICES.
   All vacancies occurring from any cause whatsoever in any administrative
office shall be filled by the City Manager as soon as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 31.007)
§ 31.08 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall hold any elected public office unless he or she shall be a
qualified voter of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.008)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications for appointive officers, see G.S. § 160A-60
§ 31.09 PERSONNEL ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The City Personnel Ordinance adopted on January 14, 1992, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.009) (Ord. passed 1-14-1992)
OFFICERS
§ 31.20 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Creation of office. The office of City Manager is hereby created.
(Prior Code, § 31.020)
   (B)   Appointment. The City Manager shall be appointed by majority vote of
the City Council for an indefinite term. He or she shall be chosen by the
Council solely on the basis of his or her executive and administrative
qualifications with special reference to his or her actual experience in or his
or her knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of his or her
office hereinafter set forth. At the time of his or her appointment, he or she
need not be a resident of the city or the state, but during the tenure of
office, he or she shall reside within the city. No Council member shall receive
such appointment during the term for which he or she shall have been elected
nor within one year after the expiration of his or her term.
(Prior Code, § 31.021)
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   The City Council may remove the City Manager at any time by a
majority vote of its members.
      (2)   The City Manager shall have 15 days from the date of notice of
removal to request a public hearing. If a public hearing is requested, the
Council shall, within 30 days from the notice of removal, hold a public hearing
on the matter.
      (3)   During the interim, the Council may suspend the Manager from duty
but shall continue his or her salary and, if the removal becomes final, shall
pay his or her salary for 30 days following the final removal date.
(Prior Code, § 31.022)
   (D)   Powers and duties. The City Manager shall be the administrative head
of the city government and shall be responsible for the administration of all
departments. To that end, he or she shall have power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Appoint and suspend or remove, when necessary for the good of the
city, all officers and employees of the city with the exception of the City
Clerk and the City Attorney, who shall be appointed by the City Council.
Suspensions and removals of city employees by the City Manager shall be subject
to the grievance procedure of the Personnel Ordinance. The City Manager may
authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend, or remove
subordinates in such department or office. All appointments, suspensions, and
removals shall be reported by the City Manager to the City Council at its next
meeting;
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually; submit it to the Council, together
with a message describing the important features; and be responsible for its
administration after adoption;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the Council as of the end of the fiscal year
a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for
the preceding year;
      (4)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city and make such recommendations as he or she may deem
desirable;
      (5)   Recommend to the Council a standard schedule of pay for each
appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum,
intermediate, and maximum rates;
      (6)   Recommend to the Council, from time to time, the adoption of such
measures as he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety,
or welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services;
      (7)   Consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments, or units
under his or her jurisdiction with the approval of the City Council. The City
Manager may be the head of one or more departments;
      (8)   Attend all meetings of the City Council unless excused therefrom
and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council. He or
she shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the
Council;
      (9)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      (10)   Investigate the affairs of the city or any department or division
thereof, investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city and, in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the city, see that all franchises,
permits, and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed;
      (11)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of his or her
official duties;
      (12)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Council not
inconsistent with the city charter, law, or ordinances;
      (13)   Supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies, and equipment
contracts in accordance with the city budget and standards set forth in state
statutes; and
      (14)   Advertise, receive bids, and award contracts for construction and
repair of buildings and infrastructure in accordance with the city budget and
standards set forth in state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 31.023)
   (E)   No interference with appointments or removals.
      (1)   Neither the Council nor any of its members shall direct or request
the appointment of any person to or his or her removal from office by the City
Manager or any of his or her subordinates or, in any manner, take part in the
appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative services
of the city.
      (2)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative services solely through the City Manager,
and neither the Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the City Manager, either publicly or privately.
(Prior Code, § 31.024)
   (F)   Emergencies. In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstances
creating a public emergency, the City Manager may award contracts and make
purchases for the purpose of meeting the emergency, but he or she shall file
promptly with the Council a certificate showing the emergency and the necessity
for such action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 31.025)
   (G)   Bond. The City Manager shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by
the Council, such bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of his or
her duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.026)
   (H)   Compensation. The City Manager shall receive such compensation as the
Council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Prior Code, § 31.027)
   (I)   Vacancy. Any vacancy in the office of City Manager shall be filled as
soon as possible after the effective date of such vacancy.
(Prior Code, § 31.028)
Statutory reference:
   City Manager, see G.S. §§ 160A-147 et seq.
   Powers and duties of City Manager, see G.S. § 160A-148
§ 31.21 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. At the first regular meeting following election and
qualification, the City Council shall appoint a City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 31.040)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the city;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor and City Council or any official of the city in
regard to matters connected with city business;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Council when requested to do so;
      (4)   Draw all legal papers connected with the city’s business; and
      (5)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction.
(Prior Code, § 31.041)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of City Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.22 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. At its regular meeting after December 1 of each year and
upon vacancy of the office, the City Council shall appoint a City Clerk upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.055)
   (B)   Duties generally.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to:
         (a)   Attend all meetings of the City Council unless excused by the
Manager;
         (b)   Keep accurate records of all proceedings of the Council;
         (c)   Keep the original of all ordinances and the corporate seal;
         (d)   Provide notices for all meetings of City Council;
         (e)   Act as custodian of records of City Council meetings and
documents approved by City Council including originals of ordinances,
resolutions, contracts, and the like in accord with the G.S. Chapter 132,
Public Records Law, and other applicable statutes; and
         (f)   Perform other duties assigned, in writing, by the Manager.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall report to the City Manager, who shall be the
Clerk’s immediate supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 31.056)
   (C)   Deputy City Clerk.
      (1)   The City Manager shall have authority to designate a person or
persons as Deputy City Clerk. Upon designation by the City Manager, the Deputy
City Clerk shall, in absence of the City Clerk and when authorized by the City
Manager, have full authority to exercise and perform any of the powers and
duties of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.057)
(Ord. 0-82-2, passed 3-9-1982; Ord. passed 1-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of City Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 132 
§ 31.23 CITY TREASURER/FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Finance Officer shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.070)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Finance Officer shall be responsible for the requirements
bestowed upon the office by G.S. Chapter 159.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall be responsible for other duties
designated by action of the City Council or designated by the City Manager, in
writing, when such duties are not in conflict with state statutes.
      (3)   Keep a map of the city cemeteries, sell lots therein in accord with
rules and fees set by City Council, and keep a record of those transactions.
(Prior Code, § 31.071)
(Ord. passed 1-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 159 and §§ 159-24 and 159-25
§ 31.24 CITY TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Tax Collector shall be appointed by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.085)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to:
      (1)   Collect all personal and real property taxes in cooperation with
the City Treasurer (Finance Officer) in accord with G.S. Chapter 105,
Subchapter II, Machinery Act, being G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq., and other
applicable statutes;
      (2)   Collect all privilege license, street, and dog taxes in cooperation
with the City Treasurer (Finance Officer);
      (3)   Cooperate with the Police Department;
      (4)   Pay over to the City Treasurer (Finance Officer) all funds
collected in accordance with applicable state statutes;
      (5)   File a detailed report each month with the City Council showing the
amount of money and from what source collected; and
      (6)   Perform all duties assigned to him or her by the Council or in
writing by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.086)
(Ord. passed 1-12-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter II
§ 31.25 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Manager shall appoint a Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 31.100)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the City Council;
      (2)   Supervise the Police Department in cooperation with the City
Manager;
      (3)   Preserve the peace by suppressing all disturbances and apprehending
all offenders;
      (4)   Assign such duties as he or she deems best to police officers of
the city;
      (5)   Cooperate with the Fire Department in the protection of property;
and
      (6)   Carry out such further orders as may be assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.101)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to appoint a Chief of Police, see G.S. § 160A-281
§ 31.26 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Manager shall appoint a Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 31.115)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire
Department to:
      (1)   Supervise and direct the extinguishing of fires;
      (2)   Preserve, maintain, and account for all equipment of the Fire
Department;
      (3)   Compel, when necessary, all persons to aid in extinguishing fires;
      (4)   Enforce all rules and ordinances relative to fire prevention;
      (5)   Ensure that the duties assigned to the Fire Inspector are carried
out;
      (6)   Examine all premises and have removed all combustible material not
stored according to city ordinances;
      (7)   Have the right to enter all buildings and premises at reasonable
hours for the purpose of making inspections; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.116)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-292
   Municipal authority to appoint a Fire Chief, see G.S. § 160A-291
§ 31.27 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Manager shall appoint a Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 31.130)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to:
      (1)   Report annually to the City Council all permits issued in his or
her department by virtue of his or her office;
      (2)   Be responsible for all building, electrical, HVAC, and plumbing
inspections;
      (3)   Inspect all buildings repaired, altered, or constructed to
ascertain if work or repair conforms to the permit;
      (4)   Condemn such buildings or premises that are in violation of fire
and health laws;
      (5)   Have all defects remedied and all filth and trash removed; and
      (6)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.131)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Building Inspectors, see G.S. § 160D-1104
   Municipal authority to appoint Building Inspector, see G.S. § 160D-1103
§ 31.28 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND WASTE TREATMENT PLANTS.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Manager shall appoint a Superintendent of the
Water and Waste Treatment Plants.
(Prior Code, § 31.145)
   (B)   Duties generally. It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the
Water and Waste Treatment Plants to:
      (1)   Supervise, control, and keep in proper repair all property of the
water supply and sewerage systems under such rules and regulations as adopted
by the City Council;
      (2)   Have charge of all employees;
      (3)   Report monthly to the City Manager and make such special reports as
City Council may require; and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 31.146)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.40 OFFICER SAFETY POLICY ADOPTED.
   The Rockingham, North Carolina, Police Department Rules and Regulations/
Officer Safety Policy is adopted and incorporated in this code of ordinances as
is set forth fully herein and is available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 32.28)
§ 31.41 ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT; GENERAL SUPERVISION.
   (A)   Department organization. The Police Department of the city shall
consist of a Chief, an Assistant Chief, and as many more police officers as the
Mayor and City Council shall from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 32.20)
   (B)   General supervision. Regular and special police officers shall be
under the supervision and direction of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 32.22)
§ 31.42 CHIEF TO ASSIGN DUTIES; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall have charge of the police force and
shall assign such duties to the police officers as he or she thinks best for
the good order of the city.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible to the City Manager in seeing that
the police officers faithfully perform their duties.
(Prior Code, § 32.21)
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the city is authorized and empowered to
prepare, adopt, and enforce written rules, regulations, and procedures for the
administration and internal organization of the City Police Department, subject
to the approval of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 32.27)
§ 31.43 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers to:
   (A)   Preserve public peace, prevent crimes, detect and arrest offenders,
and suppress riots and unlawful gatherings that obstruct the free passage of
public streets, sidewalks, parks, and public places;
   (B)   Protect the rights of persons and property;
   (C)   Protect the public health and welfare;
   (D)   Preserve order at elections and all public meetings and assemblages;
   (E)   Regulate the movements of vehicles in the streets, bridges, parks,
public squares, and highways;
   (F)   Provide proper police attendance at fires;
   (G)   Carefully observe and inspect all places of public amusement and all
places of business having a license to carry on such business and suppress and
restrain all unlawful and disorderly conduct or practices therein;
   (H)   Enforce and preserve the laws and ordinances in the city;
   (I)   Arrest all persons guilty of violating any law or ordinance;
   (J)   Prevent, as far as possible, any injury to city property and
buildings, streets, and sidewalks;
   (K)   Report to the Chief of Police any repairs needed to any public
property;
   (L)   Serve all processes issued to them; and
   (M)   Perform any and all other duties that may be assigned to them either
by the City Manager or Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 32.23)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police officers, see G.S. § 160A-285
§ 31.44 MAY SUMMON AID.
   The Chief of Police or any police officers of the city shall have authority,
if resisted in the execution of their lawful duties, to summon a sufficient
number of people to aid them in enforcing the law; it shall be unlawful for any
person so summoned to refuse to assist.
(Prior Code, § 32.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.45 INTERFERING WITH POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hamper, molest,
resist, or hinder a police officer in the lawful discharge of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 32.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.46 NEGLECT OF DUTY.
   (A)   Absence without permission. No police officer shall absent himself or
herself from duty without the permission of the City Manager or Chief of
Police. Anyone so absenting himself or herself shall be liable to such penalty
as the City Manager may designate.
   (B)   Cars not to be driven out of the city. No member of the police force
shall be permitted to take any car owned by the city outside of the city limits
except upon emergency arising from pursuit of criminals or with special
permission of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 32.26)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.60 STANDARD OPERATING GUIDELINES ADOPTED.
   The City of Rockingham Fire Department Standard Operating Guidelines are
adopted and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully set forth
herein and is available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 32.48)
§ 31.61 ORGANIZATION AND COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief, an Assistant Chief, and a
sufficient number of firefighters to maintain and operate the Department in an
efficient manner under the supervision and control of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 31.62 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF.
   (A)   Chief in command. The Chief or, in his or her absence, the Assistant
Chief shall command the Fire Department. All firefighters shall report to the
officer in command. Firefighters who refuse to obey his or her orders shall be
subject to dismissal from the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.41)
   (B)   Authority of officer in command.
      (1)   The Fire Chief or an Assistant Chief shall have authority to do all
acts reasonably necessary to extinguish fires and protect life and property
from fires.
      (2)   During any fire, the Chief or Assistant Chief shall have the power
to call on any and all persons to assist in extinguishing the same or in
pulling down or blowing up any building or in removing any goods, wares,
merchandise, and furniture from any building on fire or in danger.
(Prior Code, § 32.43)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 58-82-1
§ 31.63 RULES GOVERNING DEPARTMENT.
   The conduct of the Fire Department in drills or exercise and its proceedings
in all alarms for fire shall be governed by its own bylaws, provided they do
not conflict with city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 31.64 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF FIRE APPARATUS.
   The members of the Fire Department with fire apparatus going to, on duty, or
returning from a fire and the officers and vehicles of the Police Department
shall have the right-of-way through any street in the city over all other
vehicles. All persons operating motor or other vehicles shall stop or so move
as to permit fire apparatus and other vehicles driven by the Fire and the
Police Departments to have the right-of-way in carrying on their respective
work.
(Prior Code, § 32.44)
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way of fire apparatus, see G.S. § 20-157
§ 31.65 TWO-MILE FIRE PROTECTION.
   The City Council may provide, install, and maintain water mains, pipes,
hydrants, buildings, and equipment either inside or outside of the city for the
protection against fire of property outside of the city and within such area as
the City Council may determine, not exceeding a boundary of two miles from the
city limits, under such terms and conditions as the City Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 31.66 CALLS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Answering calls outside city limits. The Fire Department shall be
authorized to answer calls for the protection of property against fire outside
the city limits within its own established fire district, provided the property
owner pays a fixed charge for such service. The Fire Department is authorized
to answer calls from other towns and fire districts, as provided by mutual aid
agreements.
(Prior Code, § 32.46)
   (B)   Ample protection to remain in city. Fire apparatus may be used in
answering outside calls, provided that ample protection shall remain in the
city at all times.
(Prior Code, § 32.47)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to send firefighters and apparatus beyond territorial
limits, see G.S. § 58-83-1
CHAPTER 32: TAXATION AND FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Fiscal year
   
32.02   Date of assessment
   
32.03   Due date; penalties for late payments
   
32.04   Partial payments
   
32.05   Apportionment and release of lien
   
32.06   Application to property sold for taxes
   
32.07   Tax Collector to conduct sale
Retail Short-Term Lease or Rental of Vehicles
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Levy of tax
   
32.22   Collection of tax
   
32.23   Report and payment of tax
   
32.24   Taxpayer to keep records
   
32.25   Tax Collector to provide forms
   
32.26   Situs
   
32.27   Penalties and remedies
   
32.28   Administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall commence on July 1 and end on the June 30
each year.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 32.02 DATE OF ASSESSMENT.
   All property, real and personal, shall be listed and assessed, as the case
may be, in accordance with ownership and value as of January 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 32.03 DUE DATE; PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   All taxes levied by the City Council shall be due and payable on
September 1 of the fiscal year for which they are assessed or levied.
   (B)   After September 1 and on or before January 5 next after due and
payable, the tax shall be paid at par or face value.
   (C)   On or after January 6, there shall be added to the tax a penalty of
2%; on or after February 1, after due and payable, there shall be added to the
tax an additional penalty of 0.75% per month or fraction thereof until paid.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 32.04 PARTIAL PAYMENTS.
   The Tax Collector shall be authorized, empowered, and directed to accept
partial payments on taxes of not less than 33.33% of the total amount of taxes
due by any taxpayer or three equal installments; provided, the time for paying
the installments shall not be extended beyond the time now provided by law for
the advertisement and sale of property for taxes, and provided, further, no
installment payment or payments shall operate as a discharge of the tax lien
until the amount of the taxes shall have been paid in full.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
§ 32.05 APPORTIONMENT AND RELEASE OF LIEN.
   To avoid undue hardship, the Tax Collector may release a particular tract or
parcel of real estate from the tax lien of the city when a change in the
ownership of the property has occurred since the listing date for the year
proposed to be paid upon payment by the owner of such property of the tax
against it and upon the payment of all unpaid personal property tax against the
person in whose name such property was listed. The person paying the personal
property tax of another shall be subrogated to the rights of the city with
respect to such tax, and the Tax Collector shall assign to such person all
rights of the city with respect to such item of personal property tax.
(Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 32.06 APPLICATION TO PROPERTY SOLD FOR TAXES.
   The rules stated in §§
32.04 and
32.05 shall apply in cases where property has been sold for taxes and the city
is the holder of the certificate of sale, provided no suit has been instituted
to foreclose such certificate and provided, further, that the first applicant
for a release, in accordance with the provisions of §
32.04, shall pay the cost of advertising, selling, and issuing of certificate
of sale.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
§ 32.07 TAX COLLECTOR TO CONDUCT SALE.
   The City Tax Collector is designated or commissioned to sell all property,
real or personal, to satisfy any tax lien, penalties, or forfeiture as is
provided under state laws.
(Prior Code, § 33.07)
RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF VEHICLES
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person that leases or rents a vehicle on a short-term lease or
rental basis.
   GENERAL STATUTES. The North Carolina General Statutes and any reference to a
particular section thereof shall include the same as may be from time to time
amended, modified, supplemented, revised, or superseded.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is or would be reported as gross receipts on
a business’ state income tax return or on the federal income tax return filed
with the state income tax return, if the state return does not separately state
gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes collected
hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed and are not included in
GROSS RECEIPTS.
   LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use but not the
ownership or property to another for a period of time.
(G.S. § 105-164.3(7))
   LONG-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written agreement
to lease or rent property to the same person for a period of at least 365
continuous days.
(G.S. § 105-187.1(3))
   SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL. Any lease or rental of a vehicle that is not a
long-term lease or rental.
(G.S. §§ 105-187.1(4) and 160A-215.1(e)(2))
   TAX COLLECTOR. The individual appointed by the governing body pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349 (the provisions of the municipal charter) to collect taxes on
behalf of the city and any other person authorized to carry out the duties and
functions of such individual.
   TAXPAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
   VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A motor vehicle of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
      (2)   A motor vehicle of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pickup
truck, or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver’s license; and
      (3)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross vehicle weight of 6,000
pounds or less.
(Prior Code, § 33.15) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 105-349
§ 32.21 LEVY OF TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed and levied in an amount equal to 1.5% of the gross
receipts derived from the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-211
§ 32.22 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of the short-term lease or rental
of vehicles at retail to the general public shall collect, at the time of the
lease or rental, the tax herein levied, place the tax so collected in a
segregated account, and thereafter remit such tax to the Tax Collector in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The taxpayer shall include a
provision in each retail short-term lease or rental agreement stating that the
percentage amount enacted by this subchapter of the total lease or rental
price, excluding sales tax, is being charged as a tax on gross receipts.
   (B)   The amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease or
rental and shown separately on the taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid by
the customer to the taxpayer as trustee for and on account of the city. The
taxpayer shall be liable for the collection thereof and for its payment to the
Tax Collector, and the taxpayer’s failure to charge or to collect the tax from
the customer shall not affect such liability.
(Prior Code, § 33.17) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
§ 32.23 REPORT AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Taxes levied under this subchapter are due and payable when a return
is required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall, within the time specified,
submit a return to the Tax Collector on the form prescribed by the Tax
Collector.
   (B)   A return must be signed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s agent.
Returns of taxpayers are due to the Tax Collector each month on or before the
fifteenth day of each month following the month in which the tax accrues. As
provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be considered a public
record, and information contained in a return may be disclosed only in
accordance therewith.
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-208.1
§ 32.24 TAXPAYER TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The taxpayer shall keep and preserve suitable records of the gross receipts
received by such taxpayer in the conduct of business and such other books or
accounts as may be necessary to determine the amount of the tax for which such
taxpayer is liable under the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of the taxpayer to keep and preserve for a period of three years all such
records of gross receipts and other books and accounts described. All records,
books, and accounts herein described shall be open for examination at all
reasonable hours during the day by the Tax Collector or his or her duly
authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 33.19) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
§ 32.25 TAX COLLECTOR TO PROVIDE FORMS.
   The Tax Collector shall design, prepare, print, and make available to all
taxpayers operating within the municipal boundaries of the city forms and
instructions for filing returns to ensure a full collection of and an
accounting for taxes due. The failure of any taxpayer to obtain or receive
forms shall not relieve such taxpayer from the payment of the tax at the time
and in the manner provided.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
§ 32.26 SITUS.
   The transaction giving rise to the tax levied in this subchapter shall be
deemed to have occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer
takes delivery of the vehicle.
(Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
§ 32.27 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   The provisions (with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to G.S.
Chapter 105, as contained in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 5, Subchapter VIII, and
G.S. Chapter 105, Article 9, Subchapter I, thereof) shall be applicable in like
manner to the tax authorized to be levied and collected under this subchapter,
to the extent that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
The governing body of the city may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue
may exercise in collecting sales and use taxes.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(f)) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 105; G.S. Chapter 105, Article 5,
Subchapter VIII; and G.S. Chapter 105, Article 9, Subchapter I
§ 32.28 ADMINISTRATION.
   In addition to the provisions in this subchapter, the levy and collection of
the taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as
the Sales and Use Tax, as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 5, Subchapter
I.
(G.S. § 160A-215.1(d)) (Ord. passed 6-13-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 105, Article 5, Subchapter I.
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   State of emergency
   
33.02   Declaration; curfew authorized
   
33.03   Acts deemed unlawful during curfew
   
33.04   Curfew limitations
§ 33.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, catastrophe, or for
any other reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to maintain
public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health, welfare,
or property.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 33.02 DECLARATION; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the city or threatening
damage to or destruction of property or when directed to do so by the City
Council, the Mayor of the city shall be authorized and empowered to issue a
public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency; in order to more effectively protect the lives, safety, and property
of people within the city, the Mayor may define and impose a curfew applicable
to all persons within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency and curfew
as soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the City Council.
   (C)   If the Mayor is not available during the state of emergency, then the
Mayor Pro Tem or three members of the City Council shall be empowered to act in
the Mayor’s absence.
   (D)   The City Council shall be called into session within 24 hours after a
state of emergency has been proclaimed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 33.03 ACTS DEEMED UNLAWFUL DURING CURFEW.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been defined and imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to curfew:
   (A)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley, or roadway or upon
public property, unless such travel is necessary to obtain medical assistance;
   (B)   To possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell, give away, or otherwise
transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous
weapon of any kind;
   (C)   To sell beer, wines, or intoxicating beverages of any kind or to
possess or consume the same off one’s own premises;
   (D)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products or any other
combustible or inflammable substances, except as expressly authorized by the
provisions of the curfew imposed.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.04 CURFEW LIMITATIONS.
   The Mayor may and, when directed by the City Council, shall limit the
application of a curfew imposed, as provided in § 34.02, to any area
specifically designated and described within the jurisdiction of the city and
to specific hours of the day or night. He or she shall exempt from the curfew
police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses, and other such classes of
persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and immediately
necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
52.   BACKFLOW PREVENTION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General policy
   
50.03   Charges and fees
   
50.04   Receptacle standards
   
50.05   Garbage and refuse collection; residential, commercial, and industrial
   
50.06   Collection of debris
   
50.07   Preparation of boxes, debris
   
50.08   Accumulations of woody debris, building refuse, and the like
   
50.09   Removal of improper containers by collectors
   
50.10   Vacant property to be kept clean
   
50.11   Tires not collected
Prohibitions
   
50.25   Discarding or disposal of trash on private property
   
50.26   Transporting garbage into city for depositing
   
50.27   Burning in receptacle or bulk containers
   
50.28   Cleaning of receptacles
   
50.29   Liquid or semi-liquid matters
   
50.30   Transporting garbage or organic material
   
50.31   Dumping offensive and like garbage in the city
   
50.32   Littering
   
50.33   Throwing dirt, refuse, and the like in public spaces
   
50.34   Picking through contents of containers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Tree limbs, bush and grass clippings, leaves, wood, bricks, ashes,
furniture, appliances, and the like.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste matter, both animal and vegetable, from houses,
kitchens, restaurants, hotels, hospitals, and the like comprising, chiefly,
waste food and not including liquid that may be drained into the sewer. GARBAGE
includes tin cans, glass containers and bottles, paper, and paper boxes.
   RUBBISH. Floor sweepings, sawdust, oyster or clam shells, old boots and
shoes, discarded clothing, and all similar waste material that ordinarily
collects from a house or business.
(Prior Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide efficient and equitable Sanitation
Department service to all areas of the city within the corporate limits, to
afford the service to all users on as nearly an equitable basis as possible,
and to charge a fair and reasonable fee to all service users.
(Prior Code, § 50.02)
§ 50.03 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   Collection charges. For the service of collecting and hauling of
garbage and rubbish, the owner or occupant of each premises from which garbage
and rubbish is collected by the city shall be charged such rates as may be
established from time to time by the City Council. The charges shall be
considered a debt owing to the city from the owner or occupant of such premises
and shall be billed to the owner or occupant along with the bill for other
utility services.
(Prior Code, § 50.31)
   (B)   Fees for solid waste left by commercial contractors. A solid waste fee
shall be charged to the owner of any property where a contractor leaves behind
solid waste material, woody debris, construction debris, or similar materials
on such property for collection by the City Sanitation Department. All such
solid waste fees shall be billed to the property owner in the same manner as
property taxes and, in case of nonpayment, shall be collected in any manner by
which delinquent, personal, or real property taxes can be collected. The amount
billed for such solid waste fees shall be equal to the landfill fees charged to
the city at the time of disposal.
(Prior Code, § 50.40)
§ 50.04 RECEPTACLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required type and size.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every person owning, managing, operating,
renting, or occupying any dwelling, business, building, or other place where
garbage or rubbish accumulates or is produced to provide receptacles for all
such garbage and rubbish placed for removal by the Public Works Department.
      (2)   Residential receptacles shall be made substantially of metal or
polyethylene and provided with a tight-fitting cover and strong handles. The
covers shall be kept on the receptacles at all times, except when the
receptacles are being filled or emptied. Receptacles shall be as approved by
the Sanitation Superintendent. A sufficient number of such receptacles to hold
the quantity of garbage or rubbish accumulated shall be provided. All
receptacles, at all times, must be so constructed and maintained and so covered
as to prevent the entrance of flies.
      (3) Properly sized bulk containers for garbage and rubbish collection, as
may be designated by the Sanitation Supervisor or his or her agent, shall be
provided by all commercial and industrial establishments, including businesses,
tenants and other high-density residential developments, schools, churches,
clubs, or any other location where the use of such containers may be considered
to be advantageous to the general welfare of the city, for reasons of health,
sanitation, economy, or appearance. The term BULK CONTAINER shall mean a metal
container not less than four nor more than eight cubic yards in volume that is
watertight, of all steel construction, and that has doors constructed to permit
emptying by city vehicles. Roll-out containers may be utilized with the
approval of the Sanitation Superintendent. The containers shall be of standard
design suitable for pickup by the city vehicles and approved by the Supervisor
of the Sanitation Department or his or her agent.
      (4)   The city shall not be responsible for the removal of any garbage
and rubbish which is not placed in the receptacles or bulk containers provided
for in this chapter.
   (B)   Location. It shall be the duty of every person residing in a residence
and every owner, manager, renter, operator, or occupant of a commercial or
industrial establishment to see that all garbage and rubbish receptacles and
the contents, set out for removal by the City Sanitation Department, are placed
at such location as may be specified by the Sanitation Supervisor.
   (C)   Unauthorized use. No person shall place any garbage, refuse, or debris
in any receptacle owned by another person without the consent of the owner or
agent. No person residing outside the city limits shall place any garbage,
refuse, or debris in any receptacles serviced by the City Sanitation
Department, except those receptacles placed on public streets or rights-of-way
for use by the public.
   (D)   Handling and treatment. Garbage, refuse, and debris collectors shall
exercise every reasonable care in handling of garbage and other receptacles
provided for in this chapter and shall not willfully break, deface, or damage
the receptacles.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION; RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Residential. It shall be the intention of the city to provide
collection service for garbage and refuse to every residence in the city on a
twice-a-week basis; provided, however, for weeks in which holidays observed by
city employees occur, collection service may be less than twice a week but
shall be no less than once a week.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial.
      (1)   It shall be the intention of the city to provide garbage and refuse
collection service to all retail, wholesale, commercial, and industrial
establishments on a twice-a-week basis; provided however, for weeks in which
holidays observed by city employees occur, collection service may be less than
twice a week but shall be no less than once a week.
      (2)   Services to retail, wholesale, and commercial establishments shall
be limited to four 32-gallon receptacles or two roll-outs.
(Prior Code, § 50.26)
§ 50.06 COLLECTION OF DEBRIS.
   (A)   Residential. It shall be the intention of the city to provide
collection service for debris to every residence in the city on a once-a-week
basis; provided, however, for weeks in which holidays observed by city
employees occur, collection service for debris may not be provided.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial. No debris collection service shall be
provided to commercial and industrial establishments.
(Prior Code, § 50.27)
§ 50.07 PREPARATION OF BOXES, DEBRIS.
   (A)   Preparation of boxes and the like. Those persons owning, managing,
operating, renting, or occupying any residential, commercial, or industrial
establishment which generates large quantities of trash shall be required to
reduce the size of cardboard boxes, paper containers, wooden boxes, and crates
and other such objects larger than 18 inches in width, depth, or height so that
such objects are as nearly flat as possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.28)
   (B)   Preparation of debris.
      (1)   All tree limbs and trunks shall be cut into pieces not exceeding
six feet in length and placed neatly in a pile. No individual piece shall
exceed 50 pounds in weight. All trimmings, shrubbery, and the like shall be cut
into pieces not exceeding six feet in length. All grass cuttings, garden
plants, leaves, pinestraw, and the like shall be placed in loose piles for
collection at curbside.
      (2)   (a)   All debris placed for removal by the city shall be placed
within the parkway strip between the curb and the sidewalk at the front of the
premises; provided, however, where there is no sidewalk and curb, the debris
shall be placed at the front of the premises reasonably adjacent to the street.
         (b)   When a lot abuts two or more public streets, debris may be
placed along the frontage of any of the streets the lot abuts in a similar
manner as set forth above. No debris shall be placed in any street, gutter,
canal, ditch, or drainageway or upon any sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) (Ord. 0-85-3, passed 6-11-1985)
§ 50.08 ACCUMULATIONS OF WOODY DEBRIS, BUILDING REFUSE, AND THE LIKE.
   All large accumulations of grass or hay or materials left from paper
hanging, building construction and repairing, and other such labors and all
large accumulations of tree limbs or trimmings, shrubbery, and the like shall
be removed by the contractor or owner of the premises where it may be located
at his or her own expense; provided, the owner or person responsible for the
removal of the accumulation may make application to the Sanitation Supervisor
who may, if there is sufficient labor and time available, have the city remove
the accumulation at the expense of the owner or occupant of the premises. The
charge for the service shall be determined by the Sanitation Supervisor.
(Prior Code, § 50.36)
§ 50.09 REMOVAL OF IMPROPER CONTAINERS BY COLLECTORS.
   The city garbage collectors may remove any box, pail, or wooden or metallic
receptacle that is set out for collection but that does not meet the standards
set forth in §
50.04. Nonstandard receptacles so removed shall not be returned to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.37)
§ 50.10 VACANT PROPERTY TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   All persons owning vacant property within the city limits shall
maintain such property free and clear of trash, garbage, high weeds, vines, or
high shrubbery to the extent that the materials shall not be a menace to
health, sanitation, fire safety, or traffic. Owners violating the terms of this
section shall be notified in writing of the violation by the city department of
inspection.
   (B)   If, at the end of 15 days from the date of receipt of notice by the
owner, the violations have not been corrected, employees of the city may make
the corrections and cleanup as required.
   (C)   The expenses involved shall be charged as a lien against the property
and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Prior Code, § 50.39)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 50.11 TIRES NOT COLLECTED.
   (A)   No tires shall be collected for disposal by the City Sanitation
Department.
   (B)   Residents and property owners shall be responsible for the proper
disposal of all tires.
(Prior Code, § 50.30)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 50.25 DISCARDING OR DISPOSAL OF TRASH ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place,
discard, dispose of, or leave any trash, refuse, or garbage upon private
property located within the city limits without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof.
   (B)   The placing, discarding, disposing, or leaving of the articles
forbidden by this section shall, for each day or portion thereof the articles
or matter are left, constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.26 TRANSPORTING GARBAGE INTO CITY FOR DEPOSITING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or carry any garbage, refuse, or
debris into the city from outside the city and leave or deposit such garbage,
refuse, or debris within the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.27 BURNING IN RECEPTACLE OR BULK CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any matter in garbage or rubbish
receptacles or bulk containers.
(Prior Code, § 50.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.28 CLEANING OF RECEPTACLES.
   No garbage receptacles shall be cleaned on public property except under
supervision of the Sanitation Supervisor, and no residual garbage or refuse
from the cleaning of garbage receptacles shall be allowed to drain into a
public gutter, street, sidewalk, or storm sewer or into a constantly or
intermittently flowing stream or stream bed.
(Prior Code, § 50.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.29 LIQUID OR SEMI-LIQUID MATTERS.
   No liquid or semi-liquid matter will be collected by the city nor shall such
matter be put in containers placed for removal by the City Sanitation
Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.30 TRANSPORTING GARBAGE OR ORGANIC MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul or have hauled, carried, or
transported any garbage or wet or perishable malodorous material of organic
origin on any street within the city, except in metal containers, covered
vessels, or liquid-type containers with tight-fitting covers, all of which
shall be devoid of any drain tubes or drainage pipes or other features which
will release drainings, waste, seepage, or washings from the container on the
public roads, streets, or property over which the transport is being moved.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.31 DUMPING OFFENSIVE AND LIKE GARBAGE IN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump garbage or offensive or disease-
producing materials in or on any lot, space, street right-of-way, and the like
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.32 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, cast, or deposit upon
any yard or premises or street, public or private, any garbage, trash, rubbish,
debris, or filth of any kind. The material shall be accumulated as specified in
this chapter and placed in proper containers set in their respective locations
as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 50.33 THROWING DIRT, REFUSE, AND THE LIKE IN PUBLIC SPACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, sweep, or rake into
any street, sidewalk, or gutter any leaves, trash, filth, rubbish, broken
glass, tin cans, fruit peelings, refuse, or ashes or waste or loose paper. The
material shall be accumulated as specified in this chapter and placed in its
respective place or proper receptacle as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.34 PICKING THROUGH CONTENTS OF CONTAINERS.
   No person shall pick through, handle, or interfere with the contents of any
container set out for removal.
(Prior Code, § 50.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Sewer Use Ordinance adopted
   
51.02   Water system controlled by Public Utilities Director
   
51.03   Waterworks lakes
   
51.04   Expansion of utilities
   
51.05   Equipment to remain property of city
   
51.06   City reserves right to shut off water
   
51.07   Pertinent provisions incorporated into contracts
   
51.08   Sanitary fixtures
Connection Regulations
   
51.20   Laterals
   
51.21   When connections required
   
51.22   Made only by city
   
51.23   Application
   
51.24   Schedule of fees
   
51.25   Where sewer connection made
   
51.26   Separate connection required
   
51.27   Size of connections; obtaining larger
Line Extensions
   
51.40   Conditions on extensions into proposed subdivisions
   
51.41   Restrictions on intermediate connections
   
51.42   Terms and conditions
   
51.43   Standards; cost sharing
   
51.44   Financing of extensions generally
   
51.45   Financing extensions outside city
   
51.46   Installation and construction; ownership
Water Rates and Meters
   
51.60   Service deposit
   
51.61   Meters read; bills payable
   
51.62   Maintenance of meters
   
51.63   Delinquent accounts; service disconnection
   
51.64   New accounts
   
51.65   Water may be removed
   
51.66   Reinserting meter
   
51.67   Schedule of rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 SEWER USE ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances, as if fully set forth herein, the Sewer Use Ordinance (including
the Industrial Pretreatment Program and Enforcement Response Plan (ERP) enacted
on September 11, 2012) and the Fats, Oils, and Grease Control Ordinance (FOG)
enacted on August 14, 2012. Copies of these ordinances shall be kept on file
and be available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 51.140)
§ 51.02 WATER SYSTEM CONTROLLED BY PUBLIC UTILITIES DIRECTOR.
   The waterworks system owned by the city shall be under the control of the
Public Utilities Director and his or her authorized agents, subject to the
supervision of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 51.002)
§ 51.03 WATERWORKS LAKES.
   The Public Utilities Director shall be the official custodian of the
waterworks’ lakes and the surrounding premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.004)
§ 51.04 EXPANSION OF UTILITIES.
   All utilities considering expansion shall furnish the city, in advance, a
rough sketch showing the proposed expansion for the City Council’s approval
before the work is begun; provided, any deviation from original plan shall be
approved by the City Council or its duly authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 51.001)
§ 51.05 EQUIPMENT TO REMAIN PROPERTY OF CITY.
   All water meters, meter boxes, pipes, and other equipment furnished and used
by the city in installing any water or sewer connection shall be and remain the
property of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.005)
§ 51.06 CITY RESERVES RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER.
   The city reserves the right, at any time, to shut off water in the mains in
case of an act of God or an accident or for the purpose of making connections,
alterations, or repairs.
(Prior Code, § 51.003)
§ 51.07 PERTINENT PROVISIONS INCORPORATED INTO CONTRACTS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter are made a part of the terms and
conditions whereby the city furnishes water and sewer services to any person or
whereby the city makes any water and sewer connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of such services.
(Prior Code, § 51.006)
§ 51.08 SANITARY FIXTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLOSET, WATER CLOSET, PRIVY, or URINAL. A device for the receiving or
disposal of human excrement, connected with proper fitting, so that its
contents shall empty into the city sewer.
      PIT PRIVY. A closet consisting of a fly-proof vault, which shall be at
least four feet deep and which shall have a casing 12 inches deep extending
downward from the top of the pit. The PRIVY shall be provided with hinged,
self-closing lids for each seat. The door of such a PRIVY shall be provided
with a self-closing device which shall always be workable. There shall be a
stack ventilator leading from the PRIVY out through the roof.
      TANK PRIVY. A closet consisting of a watertight concrete tank placed
beneath the privy, at the left end of which shall be an overflow pipe laid in
porous gravel or cinders. The TANK itself shall be partially partitioned off
with baffle boards to prevent any floating material from overflowing into and
stopping up the tile. There shall be a stack ventilator leading from the PRIVY
out through the roof.
(Prior Code, § 51.020)
   (B)   Water closet required. Every residence and building in which human
beings reside or congregate shall be required to have a sanitary water closet.
It shall be unlawful to dispose of any human excreta within the city except
through such a water closet.
(Prior Code, § 51.021)
   (C)   Connection to sewer system required. Any owner of any building in
which human beings reside or congregate within 200 feet of a sewer line shall
be required to install a sanitary closet and connect same to the sewer system,
unless an exception is granted by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 51.022)
CONNECTION REGULATIONS
§ 51.20 LATERALS.
   (A)   Laid to inside of curb. Water or sewer laterals laid as a part of any
water or sewer main improvement shall be laid to the backside of the curb on
streets with curb and gutter and to a point at least four feet beyond the edge
of the pavement on streets without curb and gutter unless in the resolution
ordering the improvement the City Council specifically directs otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 51.007)
   (B)   Extension of laterals. After laterals are laid from water or sewer
mains to the backside of the curb, no lateral shall be extended to the property
line until the owner or occupant of the property to be served thereby applies
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 51.008)
§ 51.21 WHEN CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Within 30 days from the time when any water main in any street is completed
and ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot shall cause such lot to be
connected with the water main. Within 30 days after the time when any sewer
main in any street is completed and ready for use, if a water main has also
been installed in the street, the owner of any abutting lot having thereon
improvements for occupancy shall cause a water closet and sink to be installed
and connected with the sewer main and shall cause all other sewer facilities
within the radius of such improvements, if any, to be connected with the sewer
main; provided, the owner of the premises shall be notified, in writing, by the
City Council of the installation of the water main or the installation of such
sanitary sewer and shall be allowed 30 days after written notice within which
to make the required connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.035)
§ 51.22 MADE ONLY BY CITY.
   The construction of laterals for the connection of the water or sewer pipes
on any lot with water or sewer pipes in any street and the necessary excavation
thereof shall be done only by the Superintendent of Water and Sewer Line
Maintenance in cooperation with the Superintendent of Streets.
(Prior Code, § 51.036)
§ 51.23 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required. No connection shall be made to any water lateral except
after the written application therefor has been approved by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Contents. Every application for a water connection shall state the
name of the owner of the lot; the name of the street on which such lot is
situated; the number of the house, if there is one on the lot, or, if not, a
description of the location of the lot; the number and kind of connections
desired; and the character of the surface of the abutting street. Every such
application shall be signed by the person making the application and shall be
accompanied by the proper fee.
(Prior Code, § 51.037)
§ 51.24 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The schedule of fees for water connections shall be as from time to time
established by City Council. The schedule shall be maintained in the office of
the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 51.038)
§ 51.25 WHERE SEWER CONNECTION MADE.
   Every sewer connection made directly to a main shall be made at the “Y”
provided for the lot to be served. If no “Y” has been provided for the lot,
then such connection shall be made directly to the main at any convenient
point.
(Prior Code, § 51.039)
§ 51.26 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Every house or building abutting any water or sewer main and requiring a
water or sewer connection shall be separately and independently connected
except in those cases where laterals have already been laid in macadam or
improved streets from such main without provision being made for such house or
building; in which case, the connection may be made to an existing lateral. If
the house or building is on a macadam or improved street where laterals have
not been laid, the connection may be made to any convenient lateral. When two
or more houses or units are connected with the same water lateral, a separate
meter shall be provided for each house or unit.
(Prior Code, § 51.040)
§ 51.27 SIZE OF CONNECTIONS; OBTAINING LARGER.
   (A)   Size of connections with main. No corporation cock shall be inserted
in any of the water mains above the size of one-inch inside diameter without
the consent of the Public Utilities Director.
(Prior Code, § 51.041)
   (B)   Large accumulations. Applicants desiring attachments of larger
diameter than prescribed by these rules and regulations for the purpose of
controlling a larger quantity of water in a short space of time shall be
required to pay on demand all extra costs of such attachments above that of
ordinary service.
(Prior Code, § 51.042)
LINE EXTENSIONS
§ 51.40 CONDITIONS ON EXTENSIONS INTO PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS.
   No written contract or agreement shall be entered into under the provisions
of this subchapter for the extension of water or sewer mains inside or outside
the corporate limits, unless approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.055)
§ 51.41 RESTRICTIONS ON INTERMEDIATE CONNECTIONS.
   When a contract or agreement under this subchapter has been entered into
with any applicant for water or sewer connections, either inside or outside the
corporate limits, the contract or agreement shall contain a provision that the
applicant or the developer who becomes the applicant shall not allow any
intermediate connections to be made with the water or sewer lines extended
under the contract or agreement without the prior approval and consent of the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.056)
§ 51.42 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   When water or sewer connections shall be desired within the corporate limits
of the city by a bona fide customer who shall be a customer of a permanent and
established character, which customer will receive water service at a premises
involved with structures of a permanent nature, if such location is situated
upon a street or adjacent to the property where no water or sewer mains or
lines have been laid, the city will construct and extend its water and sewer
mains or both or the city will allow the construction and extension of its
water and sewer mains or both from the nearest existing main to a point
suitable for such desired locations, subject to the following terms and
conditions.
   (A)   Priority shall be given to applicants on a first-come, first-served
basis.
   (B)   The applicant will be required to submit as part of the written
application such information, plans, or other data as may be required to
adequately determine if the requirements of this subchapter are to be met. The
size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and the other
required system facilities shall be determined by the City Council but in
accordance with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and
design. The Council reserves the right to secure the services of competent
engineers and city planners in making this determination; the cost for this
special service shall be included in and made a part of the cost, as
represented by the applicant’s application.
   (C)   When an application is made for water and sewer extensions to serve an
area or development project that is planned as part of a larger project or
subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time application is
made, the owner shall submit plans in sufficient detail in order to determine
the size and type of facilities which will be necessary to serve the entire
development or subdivision when completed.
   (D)   The city shall not be obligated to make installations that require
trenching or excavating to a depth greater than eight feet below grade, and
there shall be no obligation to make installations where rock, shale, or other
hard materials are encountered, except when the applicant assumes the total
cost for such installations.
   (E)   No extension to the water or sewer system of the city shall be made
and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the requirements
of this subchapter.
   (F)   The applicant and the city will enter into a written contract and
agreement covering all water and sewer extensions contemplated under this
subchapter.
   (G)   All extensions of water and sewer mains within a subdivision shall be
made at the expense of the subdivider and in accordance with the city’s
subdivision ordinance in effect at that time.
(Prior Code, § 51.057)
§ 51.43 STANDARDS; COST SHARING.
   All extensions of either water or sewer service shall be governed by the
following.
   (A)   The maximum distance for any extension of a water main or a sanitary
sewer main from the existing city main to the applicant’s nearest property line
shall be 500 feet, and this cost shall be borne by the city. If the extension
of a water or sanitary sewer main is in excess of 500 feet, cost of the
extension beyond 500 feet may be shared 50% by the applicant and 50% by the
city; however, the city reserves the right to determine the financial and
engineering feasibility of such extension beyond 500 feet and act accordingly.
Payment for the applicant’s share of the cost of the extension in excess of 500
feet shall be governed by this subchapter.
   (B)   If the line to be installed by the applicant is larger than the
existing line at the point where the applicant is to connect and it is
determined by the city that the existing smaller line will have to be replaced
in order to provide adequate pressure and flow for the applicant and the
present users, the additional cost for the replacement of the existing smaller
line from the point of connection by the applicant to the point where there
exists a line the size of or larger than the line to be installed shall be
shared 50% by the applicant and 50% by the city.
   (C)   If the City Council determines that the applicant seeking extensions
contemplated under this division seeks to install facilities, the size of
which, from an engineering determination, would result in inadequate pressure,
the City Council will advise the applicant to amend his or her application to
conform to standard engineering requirements and the cost for the required
facilities shall be shared as indicated in division (B) above.
   (D)   If the City Council determines that the applicant’s application
indicates a need for the installation of additional fire hydrants, pumping
stations, outfall lines, and other facilities that would result in a total cost
which the City Council determines to be in such an amount that would not be
financially feasible, then the City Council reserves the right to deny the
application unless the applicant and the City Council can agree on an
acceptable plan for the payment of the cost.
   (E)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the City Council from
extending water or sanitary sewer mains or both within the corporate limits on
their own motion without receipt of an application from property owners and
assessing the cost of such extensions in accordance with this division and
state law when, in the opinion of the City Council, the general public interest
demands such extension of service.
(Prior Code, § 51.058)
§ 51.44 FINANCING OF EXTENSIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Extensions to approved subdivisions or developed property.
      (1)   When an application is received requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both to serve property within the corporate limits
developed or previously approved as a subdivision or where streets have
previously been dedicated and accepted by the city and such area is not part of
a new subdivision which has not been approved by the city, the City Treasurer
or other person designated by the City Council shall estimate the cost of the
project and present the application for such extension and the estimated cost
and other required information to the City Council for its consideration. If
the application is approved by the City Council and subject to the availability
of funds, the city will install or have installed, by contract under its
supervision, the extensions which have been approved, and such extension shall
be financed in accordance with this division (A).
      (2)   When an approved water or sanitary sewer extension project has been
completed and the total cost thereof has been determined, 50% of the cost of
such water or sanitary sewer extension or both shall be assessed against the
property abutting on both sides of such extension at an equal rate per front
foot in accordance with and under the authority granted to the city by state
law; provided, if the 50% cost to the applicant totals $500 or less, the
applicant shall be required to pay the amount in cash at the time of the
execution of the contract and agreement between the applicant and the city for
the water and sewer extension. The remaining 50% of the total cost of such
extensions shall be borne by the city from funds appropriated for this purpose.
      (3)   If the 50% of the cost to the applicant amounts to more than $500,
any property owner shall have the opportunity to pay his or her proportionate
share of the cost of such extensions after the assessment roll is confirmed,
rather than paying his or her share in equal annual installments with interest
as required by statute.
   (B)   Extensions to proposed developments or subdivision.
      (1)   When an application is received requesting the extensions and/or
improvements of water or sanitary sewer service or both to proposed
developments or subdivisions within the corporate limits that have not been
approved by the City Council and when such extensions and/or improvements
involving sharing of the cost, as set forth in §
51.43, the City Treasurer or other person designated by the City Council shall
estimate the cost of the project and present the application for such
extensions and/or improvements, the estimated cost, and other required
information to the City Council for their consideration. If the application is
approved, subject to the approval of the development or subdivision by the city
and subject to the availability of funds, the city will install or have
installed, by contract under its supervision, such extensions and/or
improvements which shall be financed in accordance with this division (B).
      (2)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the property owner or
owners shall advance to the city funds in an amount equal to 50% of the total
estimated cost of the proposed extensions and/or improvements.
      (3)   Upon receipt of such funds, a written contract shall be entered
into by and between the city and the property owner, under which the city will
use such funds upon the following terms and conditions.
         (a)   The funds shall be deposited in a special account of the city
for which a separate accounting will be made.
         (b)   At the time construction of the extensions and/or improvements
are completed and the total cost thereof is determined, if the amount deposited
exceeds 50% of the total cost, that portion in excess of the amount deposited
will be refunded to the owner without interest. If the amount deposited is less
than 50% of the total cost, the owner shall pay such additional amount to the
city, and this condition shall be a part of the written contract.
         (c)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may provide a surety bond
or some other form of negotiable security that will ensure payment to the city
of the owner’s proportionate share of the completed cost of extensions and/or
improvements in accordance with this division (B)(2).
         (d)   No refund or reimbursement of funds shall be made to the owner
who pays 50% of the total cost of extensions and/or improvements under the
requirements of this subsection except as provided for in division (B)(2)(b)
above.
         (e)   The city will finance, from funds appropriated for this purpose,
the remaining 50% of the total cost of extensions and/or improvements to such
proposed developments or subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 51.059)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see G.S. §§ 160A-216
§ 51.45 FINANCING EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   All applications for water and sewer extensions outside the corporate
limits shall be fully covered by a contract and agreement between the applicant
and the city. Such contract and agreement shall contain the provisions set
forth in this section and any other requirements of the City Council. The
extensions requested in the applications shall be completed within six months
unless otherwise provided by the City Council. Before work shall be commenced
on the application, the applicant shall be subject to and shall conform his or
her conduct to the provisions and requirements set forth in §
51.42(A) and (B) and any other requirements that may be required by the City
Council; provided, also, before the construction of either water or sewer mains
shall have commenced, as herein provided, the applicant shall be required to
furnish a surety bond with a responsible insurance company to guarantee the
faithful completion of the applicant’s application as provided in the aforesaid
contract and agreement.
   (B)   If an application is approved by the City Council, the applicant, at
his or her own expense, shall furnish all labor and materials and construct all
water and sewer mains and water and sewer taps and lateral lines, including all
necessary manholes, hydrants, water meters, and appurtenances, all of which
shall meet the city’s specifications and development standards. Each building
lot within a subdivision or project area shall be furnished with a water line
lateral and meter and a sewer line lateral, if connection to the sewer main is
possible, and the city will make no further connection charges unless new or
additional taps are requested. The applicant shall be responsible for all of
the costs of these utility improvements within the proposed project as well as
the cost of extending service from the corporate limits or existing water and
sewer mains to the project. Upon completion of the utility improvements and
inspection and acceptance by city personnel, the applicant shall convey to the
city fee simple title to all water and sewer mains and lateral lines
constructed, together with all meters, taps, manholes, hydrants, and
appurtenances connected with the lines.
      (1)   If the applicant funds the cost of extending service from the
corporate limits or existing water or sewer main to the development, whether it
be a single or multiple lot project, the applicant shall receive a
reimbursement as set forth hereafter from water and sewer connection fees on
that portion of the main extended to the development. For a period of ten years
from the date the applicant’s application is approved by the City Council, the
applicant shall receive 30% of the going rate or charge for each water
connection and 20% of the going rate or charge for each sewer connection.
      (2)   The city may participate in the cost of extending water and sewer
mains from the corporate limits or existing water and sewer mains to the
project but not within the project site, subdivision, or development. If the
City Council feels it desirable to have larger mains installed than the size
necessary and required to serve the project, the Council may agree to pay the
difference in the cost of pipe and appurtenances for the larger main.
      (3)   (a)   If the line to be installed by the applicant is larger than
the existing line at the corporate limits at the point where the applicant
proposes to connect and it is determined by the city’s engineers that the
existing smaller line will have to be replaced in order to provide adequate
pressure and flow for the applicant and current users, the City Council may
agree to participate in the cost of replacing the existing smaller line from
the point of connection at the corporate limits to a point where there exists a
line as large or larger, if necessary, than the one to be installed by the
applicant.
         (b)   If the City Council agrees to participate in the cost of
replacing the smaller line, the cost will be shared 75% by the applicant and
25% by the city.
   (C)   An applicant for sewer services outside the city shall enter into a
contract and agreement in which he or she guarantees to pay to the city for all
sewer service charges that may be assessed against him or her; provided, it is
understood that the city will not be held responsible for the lack of water
pressure or flow that may involve the applicant when the city does not furnish
the applicant with water services and provided, further, that after the
connection of water or sewer connections herein provided have been made and it
is determined that either the water or sewer connections involved are
inadequate because of the size of the applicant’s installation, the additional
cost to provide adequate water and sewer service shall be assumed fully by the
applicant.
   (D)   No reimbursement shall be made upon annexation. All water and sewer
lines connected to the system of the city and located outside the corporate
limits shall become the property of the city at the time such facilities are
connected.
   (E)   Prior to the beginning of any construction, the owner shall deposit
with the city funds in an amount equal to the total estimated cost of any
extensions. Upon receipt of such funds, a written contract shall be entered
into by and between the city and the property owner in accordance with the
requirements of this division (E). Such contract shall provide that in the
event the amount of the total funds deposited exceeds the amount of the total
extension cost when completed, that portion in excess of the total cost will be
refunded to the owner without interest. Such contract shall also provide that
if the amount deposited is less than the total cost, the owner shall pay such
additional amount to the city.
   (F)   In lieu of depositing funds, the owner may execute a surety bond
guaranteeing payment for such extension or have such extension work performed
under private contract with the approval of the City Council. All work is to be
performed in accordance with construction requirements of the city and shall be
subject to inspection and approval by the city.
   (G)   If the property for which application has been made for water or sewer
service is contiguous to the corporate limits, the owner of such property
agrees to annexation and such property is subsequently annexed to the city,
then all extensions made to such property between the time the application is
filed and the time the property is annexed shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of §
51.44.
(Prior Code, § 51.060)
§ 51.46 INSTALLATION AND CONSTRUCTION; OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Any water mains or sanitary sewer mains extended under the provisions
of this division (A) shall be installed and constructed in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, and other requirements of the city.
   (B)   Unless the city chooses not to assume ownership, all facilities
installed under the provisions of this subchapter, whether within or outside
the corporate limits, shall become the sole property of the city and shall be
under its jurisdiction and control for any and all purposes at the time such
facilities are connected to the city’s system.
   (C)   Prior to the entering into a contract or agreement with an applicant
to extend water or sewer facilities outside the corporate limits, the owner
seeking an extension of water or sewer facilities, the cost of which is borne
in whole or in part by the individual owners, first shall execute a warranty
deed to the city covering all of the facilities involved in the extension and
granting to the city the right of easement to service and maintain the water or
sewer facilities that may be extended.
(Prior Code, § 51.061)
WATER RATES AND METERS
§ 51.60 SERVICE DEPOSIT.
   Any person making application for water to be furnished to his or her
premises shall be required to make a deposit with the City Water Department as
may be required by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.075)
§ 51.61 METERS READ; BILLS PAYABLE.
   (A)   Meters read; bills payable. Meters shall be read in accordance with
the schedule established by City Council. Bills shall be submitted monthly and
shall be payable by the tenth of the month in which bill is due.
(Prior Code, § 51.076)
   (B)   Bills based on meters; defective meters.
      (1)   Water bills shall be based on the actual reading of the amount of
water used, except that when the amount of water used is not registered because
of a defective meter, the bill rendered shall be for the average amount used by
the premises served by such meter during the preceding three months or during
the portion of such period for which water rent records are available.
      (2)   If water was not consumed by the premises through the meter during
such preceding period, the bill rendered shall be for the average period and
for the average amount of other services of the same class in the city during
the period covered by the bill. Bills shall be rendered separately for each
service or connection. When more than one family or other group furnishes water
through a single meter, the bill therefor shall be furnished only to the person
upon whose application such water was furnished. All bills shall be made out
and mailed as early as practicable after the close of the month or quarter
covered by such bills.
(Prior Code, § 51.078)
§ 51.62 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All meters except those required to be furnished by particular users of
water shall be kept in good repair and working order by and at the expense of
the city. Meters furnished by particular users of water shall be kept in good
repair and working order by the city but the expense thereof shall be borne by
such users.
(Prior Code, § 51.077)
§ 51.63 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; SERVICE DISCONNECTION.
   Water customers shall not be contacted personally in an effort to collect
overdue bills; rather, on the twenty-first day of the month, if payment has not
been received, the water shall be subject to being cut off. Water cut off under
this section shall not be restored until all overdue bills are paid. Fees to
disconnect or restore water service shall be set from time to time by the City
Council. Individuals absent during the indicated period can avoid such fees by
notifying City Hall of such fact in advance.
(Prior Code, § 51.079)
§ 51.64 NEW ACCOUNTS.
   When a request for water service is received, records shall be checked to
ensure that there is not a delinquent bill against either the address or the
individual. Should it be determined that one exists, water shall not be
restored for an individual at a new address or for a new individual at the same
address until it can be definitely shown there is no relationship, either blood
or personal, between the delinquent customer and the individual now seeking
water service at the same address. If it is determined there is such a
relationship and the request is simply a subterfuge to gain water, service may
be denied.
(Prior Code, § 51.080)
§ 51.65 WATER MAY BE REMOVED.
   In cases where the water is turned off for nonpayment of water rent or other
causes or when, in the opinion of the Public Utilities Director, the turning
off of the water at the stopcock is not sufficient protection against the
further use of water, he or she may cause the water meter to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 51.081)
§ 51.66 REINSERTING METER.
   Upon application for reconnection after cutoff and meter approval, an
additional charge for reinserting the meter shall be made. Such charge shall be
included in the schedule of fees as provided in §
51.24.
(Prior Code, § 51.082)
§ 51.67 SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   The schedule of water rates under this subchapter shall be as from time to
time established by the City Council and as contained in the schedule
maintained on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 51.083)
CHAPTER 52: BACKFLOW PREVENTION
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Compliance
   
52.03   Unlawful connections
   
52.04   Inspection; right of access
   
52.05   Existing conditions
   
52.06   Hazardous uses
   
52.07   Other connection
   
52.08   Installation of containment devices
   
52.09   New construction
   
52.10   Notification of consumer
   
52.11   Change in nature
   
52.12   Consumer responsibilities
   
52.13   Testing and maintenance
   
52.14   Liability
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP SEPARATION. An unobstructed vertical distance through the atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle. An
approved meter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the AIR-GAP be less than
one inch.
   APPROVED. Certified in writing by the Public Utilities Director as an
acceptable device or methodology for the purpose of backflow prevention.
   AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may be
secured from a source other than public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water into the public water supply from any other
source due to a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, interconnection,
backpressure, backsiphonage, any combination thereof, or other cause.
   BACK-PRESSURE. Any pressure on any source of water, other than the public
water supply, which may be greater than the pressure on the public water supply
and may result in a backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved effective device or method used to
prevent backflow from occurring in the potable water supply. The type of device
required shall be based on degree of hazard, existing or potential.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. Any circumstance in which the pressure on the public water
supply may be reduced to the point that the elevation and atmospheric pressure
on a source of water other than the public water supply may result in a
pressure to be greater than the pressure on the public water supply and may
result in a back flow.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. A person who has proven his or her competency to test,
repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention devices as evidenced
by certification of successful completion of a training program approved by the
Superintendent of Water and Sewer Maintenance.
   CONFINEMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as approved and required,
installed within a private plumbing or distribution system to isolate a
localized hazard from the remainder of said system.
   CONSUMER. Any person, firm, or corporation responsible for any property at
which water from the city public water supply is received. In the absence of
other parties or the failure of other parties to accept the responsibilities
herein set forth, the owner of record shall be ultimately responsible.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, as proved and required,
installed at the point of separation between the public water supply and a
private service or private distribution system or at the point of metering.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection whereby the public water supply is
connected with any other water supply system, whether public or private, either
inside or outside of any building or buildings, in such a manner that a flow of
water into the public water supply is possible either through the manipulation
of valves, because of ineffective check or back-pressure valves or because
of any other arrangement.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL COORDINATOR. The official position established and
authorized by the city and designated by the Public Utilities Director to
administer and interpret this chapter and who shall be a certified tester.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An approved assembly composed
of two single, spring-loaded, independently operating check valves, including
tightly closing shut-off valves, located at each end of the assembly and having
suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE. An approved device containing two independently acting
check valves in series.
   FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
   INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain
sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water supply.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER. An approved assembly containing an independently
operating, spring-loaded check valve and an independently operating, loaded air
inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly must
be equipped with suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the
device and tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. The water and waterworks system of the city and its
customers outside the corporate limits for general use and which supply is
recognized as the public water supply by the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
      (1)   An approved device containing within its structure two spring-
loaded, independently operating check valves, together with an automatically
operating pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves. The first check valve reduces the supply pressure a predetermined
amount so that during normal flow and at cessation of normal flow the pressure
between the checks shall be less than the supply pressure.
      (2)   In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential relief
valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure
between the check valves less than the supply pressure. This device shall have
suitable connections for testing the proper operation of the device, including
tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the device.
(Prior Code, § 51.095) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.02 COMPLIANCE.
   The city will comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, being 42
U.S.C. § 300, the State Drinking Water Act, being G.S. § 130A-311, and State
Building Code which pertain to cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, and
interconnections and establish an effective ongoing program to control
potential sources of contamination of the public water supply.
(Prior Code, § 51.096) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.03 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, or interconnection to be made or allow one to exist for any purpose
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 51.097) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   Inspection. It shall be the duty, upon request of the Public Utilities
Director, to cause inspections to be made of properties served by the public
water supply where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed
possible. The frequency of inspections and re-inspections shall be set by the
Public Utilities Director.
(Prior Code, § 51.098)
   (B)   Right of access. The Public Utilities Director or authorized
representative shall have the right to enter, at a reasonable time, any
nonresidential property served by a connection to the city public water supply
for the purpose of performing the duties of this chapter. In those cases in
which the property owner chooses not to provide such access, the Public
Utilities Director or authorized representative may designate the location as a
high hazard in accordance with §
52.06.
(Prior Code, § 51.099)
(Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.05 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   Any consumer shall be allowed 90 days to correct any cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes, interconnections, or other hazard, as defined by § 55.06, of
the code in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The 90 days will be
from the date of receipt of the notification given by the Public Utilities
Director.
(Prior Code, § 51.100) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.06 HAZARDOUS USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be classified as hazardous uses:
      (1)   Hazardous uses include, but are not limited to: pumps and tanks
handling sewage, radioactive, lethal, or toxic substances; boiler and steam
connections; sewer waste lines; low inlets to receptacles containing toxic
substances, coils, or jackets used as heat exchangers; flush valve toilets
without vacuum breaks; bacterial and viral materials; private wells or other
private water supply; irrigation systems, water systems, or hose connections
with booster pumps; carbonation equipment; or similar hazard potential, as
determined by the Public Utilities Director;
      (2)   Any location at which the nature or mode of operation within a
premises are such that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing or at
which there is a likelihood in the determination of the Public Utilities
Director that protective measures may be subverted, altered, or disconnected;
and
      (3)   A facility which contains, but is not limited to, a bottling plant,
cannery, buildings that have five or more stories, battery manufacturer,
exterminator, greenhouse, chemical processing plant, dairy, dye works, film
laboratory, car wash, hospital, commercial laboratory, laundry, metal
fabricating operation, mortuary, swimming pool, morgue, x-ray equipment,
medical office with laboratory, aspirator, medical washing equipment, packing
house, plating plant, poultry house, power plant, nuclear reactor, pumped fire
sprinkler or riser system or those equipped with facilities for introduction of
freeze preventive chemicals, or other substances other than water.
   (B)   All installations described in this section shall be deemed hazardous
uses and must have a containment device in the form of a reduced pressure zone
backflow prevention device, provided that, if the consumer demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Public Utilities Director that sufficient internal
confinement devices have been installed and tested, the Public Utilities
Director may require that the consumer provides engineering drawings sealed by
a professional engineer of installations within the premises which provide
complete internal protection against cross-connection, as approved by the
Public Utilities Director. Any such connection shall be considered an “other
connection” for the purpose of determining the type of containment device
required. Each internal confinement device shall be one of the following, as
approved by the Public Utilities Director or his or her authorized
representative: reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention device,
double check valve backflow prevention device, air-gap, vacuum break-pressure
type, or dual check valve. Each reduced pressure zone principle backflow
prevention device serving as an internal confinement device shall have a mesh
strainer immediately upstream of the inlet gate valve.
(Prior Code, § 51.101) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 OTHER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Services to single-family residential units not otherwise required by
this code to have other containment devices may have a containment device in
the form of an approved dual check valve. On all such services for which meters
are applied more than 90 days following the date of adoption of this chapter,
the dual check valves or other containment devices, as required, shall be
installed by the owners’ representative prior to the installation of the meter
by the Water and Sewer Maintenance Department. On all such services for which
meters have been applied prior to that date, the dual check valve shall be
installed by the Water and Sewer Maintenance Department, provided that the city
reserves the right to charge the owner or occupant of any residence for the
cost of the device and its installation. Maintenance of dual check valve
containment shall be conducted by the Water and Sewer Maintenance Department.
   (B)   All other connections to the public water supply of the city shall
have containment devices in the form of a double check valve back flow
prevention device, as set forth in §
52.08. This shall include water mains installed to city standard and with city
supervision but which are not maintained by the city, pursuant to other
ordinances including, but not limited to, mobile home parks, apartments, group
housing projects, and other private distribution systems or similar hazard
potential as determined by the Public Utilities Director or his or her
authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 51.102) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.08 INSTALLATION OF CONTAINMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The containment devices shall be located off the street right-of-way
on the water main side of any plumbing connections. When installed in a
building, the device shall be located on the service line immediately after its
entrance into the building. Each containment and confinement device shall be
installed in a location which is physically accessible for inspection and
testing as determined by the Public Utilities Director. Containment devices
which have been buried in the ground do not satisfy the provisions of this
code. Each reduced pressure principle zone device shall be installed such that
flooding of the device is unlikely as determined by the Public Utilities
Director.
   (B)   (1)   The Public Utilities Director shall maintain a list of approved
manufacturers and models of hazard containment devices and drawings of standard
installations, copies to be made available through the office of the Public
Utilities Director and the Code Enforcement Office.
      (2)   All reduced pressure zone principle backflow prevention devices and
double check valve backflow prevention devices shall be approved by the
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research.
      (3)   All vacuum breaks and dual check valve devices shall be approved by
the American Society for Sanitary Engineers. All installations and materials
shall conform to city standards as set by the Public Utilities Director.
   (C)   In those cases in which containment and/or confinement devices have
been previously installed by prior owners, the city, or other parties, the
responsibility for maintenance, testing, and replacement, as applicable, shall
be with the consumer.
   (D)   The cost of the means of containment and any other plumbing
modifications necessary and convenient thereto and the testing and maintenance
thereof is to be paid for by the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 51.103) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.09 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All buildings proposing to connect to the public water system of the
city receiving building permits, on or after the effective date of this
chapter, shall be equipped with an approved and tested as properly functioning
backflow prevention device(s), as prescribed herein, prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for that building.
   (B)   If a building permit was issued for the building prior to the
effective date of this chapter or a building permit was not required, the
building shall be considered to be an existing building prior to the effective
date, in accordance with §
52.05.
(Prior Code, § 51.104) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.10 NOTIFICATION OF CONSUMER.
   (A)   Upon identification of a hazard or hazard potential, as defined in §§
52.06 and
52.07, the Public Utilities Director shall notify the consumer of record of the
property on which the hazard exists of the following:
      (1)   Location of hazard;
      (2)   Nature of hazard observed;
      (3)   Date hazard observed;
      (4)   Section of code applicable; and
      (5)   Requirements of code.
   (B)   Such notification to be made by certified mail, with return receipt
requested.
(Prior Code, § 51.105) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.11 CHANGE IN NATURE.
   The Water and Sewer Maintenance Department shall be notified by the consumer
when the nature of use of the property changes so as to change the hazard
classification of that property, as set forth in §§
52.05 and
52.06.
(Prior Code, § 51.106) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.12 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The consumer shall, upon notification, as defined in §
52.10, install the hazard containment device(s) as required within 90 days from
the date of notification.
   (B)   If, after expiration of 90 days, the containment device has not been
installed in conformance with standards set by the Water and Sewer Maintenance
Department in a proper working condition, the Public Utilities Director may
discontinue the public water supply service at that premises, and service shall
not be restored until such devices have been installed. The Public Utilities
Director may permit an extension of up to 90 additional days if compliance
efforts are underway and the existence of hardship can be demonstrated.
   (C)   The city shall bear no liability for direct or consequential damages
proximately caused by the discontinuance of service pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.107) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.13 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   The consumer at each property at which containment and/or confinement device
(s) have been installed, except those with devices installed in accordance with
§
52.07(A) of this code, shall have each containment and/or confinement device(s)
tested on an annual basis and perform any routine maintenance to such device as
recommended by the manufacturer and provide the Public Utilities Director with
a report of this inspection and work. The consumer shall cause such maintenance
or repairs to be made, rendering the device fully operational. Failure of the
consumer to perform that testing and maintenance shall be cause for the
premises to be deemed an immediate public health hazard. The Public Utilities
Director may immediately thereafter discontinue public water supply service to
that premises and service shall not be restored until such devices have been
rendered fully operational. Where the use of water is critical to the
continuance of normal operations or protection of life, property, or equipment,
duplicate containment of confinement devices shall be provided by the property
owner to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or repair
the device or devices.
(Prior Code, § 51.108) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.14 LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be held liable for any cause for failure to detect any
unit failing to operate adequately or failure to identify any specific hazard
which may result in contamination of its public water supply, nor shall this
chapter diminish the responsibility of any property owner from whose property a
contamination of the public water supply may originate.
(Prior Code, § 51.109) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of this chapter may subject the offender to
a civil penalty to be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of
debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days after the
assessment has become final by exhaustion of the appeal process established by
this section or by failure to appeal the assessment.
   (B)   The civil penalty for violation of any provision of this chapter shall
not exceed $500 per day for each day of continuous violation or a cumulative or
single civil penalty of $10,000. The civil penalty for willful violation of any
provision of this chapter shall not exceed $1,000 per day for each day of a
continuous violation or a cumulative or single civil penalty of $20,000.
   (C)   Any civil penalty shall be assessed by the City Manager, upon the
recommendation of the Public Utilities Director, and shall be based upon the
reasonable estimated cost of correcting the cited violation; the magnitude of
the potential risk posed to the public health, safety, and welfare by the
violation; and the cost of the public safety or other emergency response caused
by the violation. The City Manager shall serve written notice of the civil
penalty assessment on the offender and set out with reasonable care the basis
of the amount so assessed.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter may be endorsed by an appropriate,
equitable remedy, including a mandatory or prohibitory injunction, issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   The penalties and enforcement provisions established by this division
may be applied in addition to or in lieu of the penalties established by other
sections of this code.
(Prior Code, § 51.999) (Ord. passed 8-10-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to traffic code
   
70.03   Application to public employees
   
70.04   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Obedience
   
70.16   No turn signs and turning markers
   
70.17   No parking zone; safety zone
   
70.18   Quiet zones
   
70.19   School zone
   
70.20   Traffic control signal legend
   
70.21   Flashing signals
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.35   Authority of Police
   
70.36   Citation; warrant
   
70.37   Payment of fines
   
70.38   Impoundment of vehicles; notification; unclaimed vehicles
   
70.39   Appeals
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. The length of that portion of any street which is located between two
street intersections.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street or highway when 75%
or more of frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings in use for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway lying between the prolongation of the
lateral sidewalk or boundary lines over an intersection as well as any portion
of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle. The terms DRIVER and OPERATOR and their
cognates are synonymous.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every vehicle which is self- propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27)d1.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or device not
inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of the City
Council or of an official having jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually or automatically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   PARK. Cause the vehicle to stand, whether occupied or not, other than
temporarily for the purpose of loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any officer of the City Police Department or any other
officer authorized to direct traffic or to make arrests for violation of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Any road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle engaged in the business of transporting
persons for fare.
   RAILROAD. Any carrier of persons or property, other than streetcars, with
cars operated on stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other locomotive with or
without cars coupled thereto that is operated upon rails, not including
streetcars.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street or highway not
comprising a business district where 75% or more of the frontage on such street
or highway for a distance of 300 feet or more is mainly occupied by residential
dwellings.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway not
inconsistent with regulations and conditions.
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the
term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately but
not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or lateral lines of
a roadway and the adjacent property lines and that is exclusively intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of an occupied or unoccupied vehicle.
   STOP. When required, a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any stopping of a vehicle, except when
conflict with other traffic is imminent, or when otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY and STREET and their cognates are synonymous.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC SIGNS. Any authorized sign or marker placed, erected, or installed
at certain places and purporting to give notice of direction or to convey a
prohibition or warning. The presence of such signs, though not compulsory, is
generally dictated by necessity or common sense with a view to furtherance of
public safety.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, for the purposes of
this traffic code, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES and every rider of a
bicycle upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those which, by their nature, can
have no application. This term shall not include a device which is designed for
and intended to be used as a means of transportation for a person with a
mobility impairment, is suitable for use both inside and outside a building,
and whose maximum speed does not exceed 12 mph when the device is being
operated by a person with a mobility impairment.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions relating to motor vehicles and traffic, see G.S. § 20-4.01
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01(27)d1
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
   (B)   Every person propelling any pushcart, riding a bicycle or an animal,
or driving an animal- driving vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter applicable to any driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no such application.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-171
§ 70.03 APPLICATION TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government and this state,
county, or city; it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code or state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
Statutory reference:
   Drivers of government vehicles, see G.S. § 20-168
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall also apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as
defined herein, except as follows.
   (A)   Unless otherwise directed by a police officer, a driver, when
operating such vehicle in any emergency, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign but only after
slowing down to the extent necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits otherwise applicable, so long as he or she
does not endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions, so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the
safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 70.07) Prior Code, §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Applicability of speed limit to emergency vehicles, see G.S. § 20-145
   Conduct required of driver of vehicle upon approach of emergency vehicle,
see G.S. § 20-157
   Yielding right-of-way to emergency vehicles, see G.S. § 20-156
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic control device placed in accordance with the traffic ordinances of the
city, subject to certain exceptions, which are granted the driver of any
authorized emergency vehicle in §
70.04, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   No provision of this subchapter which provides for signs shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, such official sign was not in proper position or was insufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does
not stipulate signs, such sections shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.16 NO TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating that no right turn, no left
turn, or no U-turn is permitted, the driver of a vehicle shall obey the
directions of such sign, and when authorized markers, buttons, or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning, the driver of a vehicle shall obey
the directions of such indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 NO PARKING ZONE; SAFETY ZONE.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed indicting no parking zones
or safety zones, the driver of a vehicle shall obey such regulatory
indications.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 QUIET ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating quiet zones, the person
operating a motor vehicle within such zone shall not sound the horn or any
other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 SCHOOL ZONE.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof
as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using such street or part thereof
shall exercise the greatest care for the protection of children.
(Prior Code, § 70.25)
§ 70.20 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signs exhibiting the words
“Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop” or exhibiting differently colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used, and such terms and
lights shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign prohibits either such turn, but vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
already within the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the crosswalk area, whether marked or not.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby warned that there will
not be sufficient time to safely cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicles facing a red light from a steady or strobe beam stoplight
shall not enter the intersection while the steady or strobe beam stoplight is
emitting a red light; provided, except where prohibited by an appropriate sign,
vehicular traffic facing a red light, after coming to a complete stop at the
intersection, may enter the intersection to make a right turn, but such vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and to other traffic using the
intersection. When the stoplight is emitting a steady yellow light, vehicles
facing the yellow light are warned that a red light will be immediately
forthcoming.
      (2)   When the stoplight is emitting a steady green light, vehicles may
proceed with due care through the intersection subject to the rights of
pedestrians and other vehicles as may otherwise be provided by law.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection and continue the movement in the direction indicated by such arrow
but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so without interfering with vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at any intersection or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules of safety and noninterference
with other traffic.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated by
rapid intermit tent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersections or pass such signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 70.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   (A)   Obedience to police. No person shall refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
   (B)   Authority to police in special cases. In the event of a fire or other
emergency or when it is necessary to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding other provisions of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
   (C)   Accept plea; handle traffic violations. The Police Department is
authorized to accept a plea of guilty and to otherwise handle the following
traffic violations within the city:
      (1)   Parking over the allowed time;
      (2)   Parking between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sundays and
legal holidays;
      (3)   Parking more than 12 inches from the curb;
      (4)   Parking within 25 feet of a street corner;
      (5)   Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   Parking in a non-parking space;
      (7)   Illegal use of loading zones, bus stops, and taxi stands;
      (8)   Parking at the entrance of an alley or driveway;
      (9)   Parking on the left side of a curb; and
      (10)   Double parking.
(Prior Code, § 70.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 CITATION; WARRANT.
   Any person cited by the police officers of the city for the commission of
any of the offenses listed in §
70.35(C) may submit a plea of guilty to the charged traffic violation and
tender the sum provided for in §
70.37 for such violation. If the person so cited does not submit a plea of
guilty to the traffic violation shown in the citation, then a warrant shall be
sworn out by a member of the Police Department, and the person charged with
such violation shall be tried upon such warrant in the District Court.
(Prior Code, § 70.41)
§ 70.37 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   Any person pleading guilty to any of the offenses listed in §
70.35(C) shall pay the amount specified on a list maintained in the Police
Department as payment for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 70.42)
§ 70.38 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; NOTIFICATION; UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment of vehicles authorized.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer finds a motor vehicle that has been
wrecked or disabled upon the public streets or ways of the city or upon city
property or that may have been parked in violation of a city ordinance or state
law, the officer shall have the vehicle towed from the area.
      (2)   If the owner or operator of the vehicle is present at the time the
vehicle is to be towed, he or she may call a wrecker company of his or her
choice, and in such case, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
      (3)   However, if the owner or operator of the vehicle is not present or
does not state a preference for a certain wrecker company, the police officer
at the scene shall have an appropriate wrecker dispatched to remove the vehicle
to any destination within the city limits which is requested.
      (4)   A police officer may have a vehicle removed to a storage area or
garage if the vehicle has been parked in a prohibited parking area in violation
of a city ordinance or state law.
      (5)   Vehicles removed to a wrecker storage lot or garage or to a police
storage lot shall be held until claimed by the legal owner or otherwise
disposed of as provided by this section.
(Prior Code, § 70.43)
   (B)   Notification; sale of unclaimed vehicles.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his or her designee
to advise the owner of the vehicle of the removal of the vehicle and the place
of the removal. The owner shall be construed to be the registered owner as
shown by the records of the state of its registration.
      (2)   Notice shall be given to the owner in conformity with G.S. § 20-
219.11. If the owner of such vehicle cannot be ascertained, the Chief of Police
shall advertise, within five days after such vehicle is stored or impounded,
once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, the fact that the
vehicle is stored or impounded, describing the same and setting forth the
reasons therefor.
      (3)   If, at the expiration of 30 days from the date of storing or
impounding of such vehicle, the rightful owner thereof has not claimed the
vehicle and paid the charges herein provided, the wrecker owner shall advertise
and sell such vehicle pursuant to the laws of this state (G.S. § 20-77 and
Chapter 44A, Article I), governing storage charges insofar as the same are
applicable to the vehicles to be sold for the towing and storage charges
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 70.44)
   (C)   Applicability. The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall be
applicable to wrecker and tow-in services which are authorized by the city and
the request is made by a police officer in the regular scope of his or her
employment.
(Prior Code, § 70.45)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-77, 20-219.11, and Chapter 44A, Article I
§ 70.39 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision of the Police Department, relative to
wrecker service or towing, may be taken by any person or company aggrieved
thereby.
   (B)   The procedure of appeal shall be explained by the police officer or
Department and shall be as set forth in G.S. §§ 20-219.9 through 20-219.14.
(Prior Code, § 70.46)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S.§§ 20-219.9 through 20-219.14
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
   (C)   Violation of §
72.07(A) shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 72.17)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Quantity of front-seat passengers
   
71.02   Heavy truck limitation
Vehicle Operations
   
71.15   Vehicle left with motor running
   
71.16   Stop before entering through street
   
71.17   Stop before entering stop intersection
   
71.18   One-way streets
   
71.19   Obstructing intersections of crosswalks
   
71.20   Left turns
   
71.21   Right or left turns prohibited at certain intersections
   
71.22   U-turns in business district
   
71.23   Limitations on backing
   
71.24   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
71.25   Moving cars from parked positions
   
71.26   Driving roadways laned for traffic
Prohibited Conduct
   
71.40   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.41   Unlawful riding
   
71.42   Jumping on or riding without permission
   
71.43   Protruding from or hanging onto vehicles
   
71.44   Muffler
   
71.45   Use of horn
   
71.46   Driving through funeral processions
   
71.47   Driving over sidewalks
   
71.48   Speed limits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 QUANTITY OF FRONT-SEAT PASSENGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 HEAVY TRUCK LIMITATION.
   Trucks weighing five tons or more shall be prohibited from traveling on East
Side Drive except when servicing houses or lots on that street.
(Prior Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 0-80-7, passed 6-10-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE OPERATIONS
§ 71.15 VEHICLE LEFT WITH MOTOR RUNNING.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to leave the
vehicle on the streets of the city with the engine or power of the vehicle
running or otherwise in operation.
(Prior Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 STOP BEFORE ENTERING THROUGH STREET.
   When stop signs are placed upon highways which intersect a through street,
the driver shall bring his or her vehicle to a stop before entering the
intersection and he or she shall not proceed into or across the through street
until he or she has first determined that no conflict with traffic will ensue.
(Prior Code, § 71.10)
§ 71.17 STOP BEFORE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   When stop signs are placed at stop intersections, every driver of a vehicle
shall stop before entering the intersection, and he or she shall not proceed
into or across the through street until he or she has first determined that no
conflict with traffic will ensue.
(Prior Code, § 71.11)
§ 71.18 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon streets designated as one-way streets, vehicular traffic shall move
only in the direction indicated by traffic signs.
(Prior Code, § 71.12)
§ 71.19 OBSTRUCTING INTERSECTIONS OF CROSSWALKS.
   No driver shall move his or her vehicle across an intersection or a marked
crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate his or her vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, although a traffic control signal
may be indicating his or her right to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.20 LEFT TURNS.
   In making left turns at street intersections, all traffic, when approaching
the intersection, shall keep close to the centerline of the street; shall make
the left turn beyond the center of the intersection as may or may not be
indicated by buttons, markers, or other directing signs; and shall proceed in
the new direction along the right-hand lane, except for intersections which may
otherwise be marked by the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.15)
Statutory reference:
   Operation of vehicles and rules of the road, see G.S. §§ 20-138.1 et seq.
§ 71.21 RIGHT OR LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   No vehicle shall make a left or right turn at any intersection when there
are signs erected prohibiting such a turn.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 U-TURNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle and proceed in the opposite direction
within the business district, except at certain street intersections as
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 71.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into any intersection or over a
crosswalk nor shall he or she back it otherwise unless such movement can be
made in safety and unless ample warning has been given by hand and horn or
other signal.
(Prior Code, § 71.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.24 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to reaching the sidewalk or the sidewalk
areas extending across any alleyway and shall proceed only with caution and
after giving ample warning. Upon entering the roadway, he or she shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.19)
§ 71.25 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Prior Code, § 71.21)
§ 71.26 DRIVING ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
traffic lanes shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a single
lane and shall not be moved out of such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.24)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 71.40 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.41 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle not
designated or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty nor to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces
intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.42 JUMPING ON OR RIDING WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on, or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.43 PROTRUDING FROM OR HANGING ONTO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude beyond
the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give such
signals as are by law required.
   (B)   No person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.44 MUFFLER.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle with a muffler cut out or without a
muffler in constant operation.
(Prior Code, § 71.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.45 USE OF HORN.
   No horn or other warning device upon any motor vehicle shall be used except
when necessary as a warning device.
(Prior Code, § 71.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols, and ambulances, which may be so driven
only if they are responding to calls.
(Prior Code, § 71.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47 DRIVING OVER SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed to be reasonable and prudent. No person shall drive a vehicle on
a highway or on any parking lot, drive, driveway, road, roadway, street, or
alley upon the grounds and premises of any public or private hospital, college,
university, benevolent institution, school, orphanage, church, or any
institution maintained and supported by the city, county, or state or upon the
grounds and premises of any service station, drive-in theater, supermarket,
store, restaurant, office building, or any other business or municipal
establishment providing parking space for customers, patrons, or the public at
a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing.
(Prior Code, § 71.22)
   (B)   Maximum speeds. Except as otherwise provided by official traffic
control signs in places along the streets and as indicated on the official
traffic maps, it shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle in excess of the
following speeds:
      (1)   In any business district: 20 mph;
      (2)   In any residential district: 35 mph;
      (3)   In places other than those named in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above: 45 mph; this is applicable for:
         (a)   All vehicles other than passenger cars, regular passenger
vehicles, pickup trucks of less than one-ton capacity, and school buses loaded
with children; and
         (b)   All vehicles, of whatever kind, which are engaged in towing,
drawing, or pushing another vehicle, provided that this division (B)(3)(b)
shall not apply to vehicles engaged in towing, drawing, or pushing trailers
with a gross weight of not more than 3,000 pounds.
      (4)   In places other than those named in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above for passenger cars, regular passenger-carrying vehicles and pickup trucks
of less than one-ton capacity: 45 mph.
(Prior Code, § 71.23)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Speed restrictions and authority of city to impose certain speed limits, see
G.S. §§ 20-141, 20-144, 20-145, and 20-169
CHAPTER 72: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Parking prohibited, restricted in certain places
   
72.02   Moving of vehicle not owned by oneself into restricted areas
   
72.03   Parking prohibited during certain hours; limited time
   
72.04   Parking stands for buses and vehicles for hire
   
72.05   Standing or parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
72.06   Parking for disabled persons
   
72.07   Parking lot established; free parking
   
72.08   Parking on private property
Manner of Parking
   
72.20   Vehicles not to stop in streets; exceptions
   
72.21   Obstructing passage
   
72.22   Parking parallel
   
72.23   Left side to point
   
72.24   Within lines
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING PROHIBITED, RESTRICTED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when conflict
with other traffic is imminent or when so directed by a police officer or
traffic control device in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within an intersection;
      (3)   On a crosswalk;
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic
control signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
      (5)   On either side of any street leading to a railroad underpass or an
overhead bridge within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of such
underpass or overhead bridge;
      (6)   On either side of any street leading to a grade crossing within 50
feet of the closest rail; provided, where existing permanent structures are
located closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of such
structures, unless otherwise prohibited, and if such parking does not block the
view in either direction of the approach of a locomotive or train;
      (7)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction if the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (8)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
      (9)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopping, standing, or parking
at the edge or curb of a street; and
      (10)   Within 15 feet of any fire plug or hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)
   (B)   When signs are placed prohibiting parking or when the curbing has been
painted yellow, in lieu of such signs, no person shall park a vehicle, at any
time, upon any of the streets so marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.05)
   (C)   (1)   Vehicular parking shall be prohibited in the areas described in
this section in order to reduce the hazards associated with sight obstructions
resulting from parked vehicles to:
         (a)   Prohibit vehicular parking within the right-of-way on the south
side of U.S. 74 beginning at the point of intersect at the southwestern corner
of the Walnut Lane, U.S. 74 intersection, proceeding westward along the U.S. 74
southern right-of-way line to a point 170 feet from the beginning;
         (b)   Prohibit vehicular parking adjacent to the curb line of U.S. 1
South on the west side of U.S. 1 at the intersection of Midway Road for a
distance of 75 feet north of the point of intersect; and
         (c)   Prohibit vehicular parking on both sides of Biltmore Drive from
the intersection of U.S. 74 to Cabell Boulevard.
      (2)   No person shall stop, leave standing, or park a motor vehicle in
the areas specified in this section in violation of posted signs when signs are
placed, erected, or installed giving notice that stopping, standing, or parking
is regulated, prohibited, or prohibited during certain hours in that space or
area.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall be enforceable in the same
manner as is used to enforce other parking regulations and ordinances, and
penalties shall be the same as for the corresponding violation on publicly
owned or controlled streets or property.
(Prior Code, § 72.06)
(Ord. 0-82-6, passed 8-10-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-162
§ 72.02 MOVING OF VEHICLE NOT OWNED BY ONESELF INTO RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by himself or herself into any
prohibited area or sufficiently away from a curb to make the distance unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS; LIMITED TIME.
   (A)   Prohibited during certain hours. When signs so indicating are placed
in certain streets, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 7:00 a.m. upon any of the streets so marked; provided, this division
(A) shall not apply to automobiles or other vehicles if their owners are at
work in the building or on the premises near which such vehicles are parked.
(Prior Code, § 72.07)
   (B)   Parking limited to two hours. When signs so indicating are placed in
certain streets, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at
any time between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. on any day except Sundays
and public holidays upon any of the streets so marked. A change of position of
vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block shall be
deemed one continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.08)
   (C)   Parking limited to one hour.
      (1)   When signs so indicating are placed in certain streets, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour at any time between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on any day except Sundays and public holidays on any of
the streets so marked.
      (2)   A change of position of a vehicle from one point directly to
another point within the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking
period.
(Prior Code, § 72.09)
   (D)   Parking limited to ten minutes.
      (1)   When signs so indicating are placed in certain streets, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than ten minutes at any time upon any streets
so marked.
      (2)   A change of position of vehicle from one point directly to another
point within the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.10)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 PARKING STANDS FOR BUSES AND VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   Certain locations shall be reserved as stands for buses and vehicles for
hire; no automobile or other vehicle other than those so designated shall park
at such stands.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any street for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing it, excepting repairs necessitated by
an emergency;
   (C)   Storage;
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected;
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another; and/
or
   (F)   Advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall designate certain parking spaces on city
streets and in city owned or operated parking lots for the exclusive use of
persons with disabilities.
   (B)   No vehicles shall be parked in such spaces other than those used by
and for persons with disabilities, and violations hereof shall be punishable as
for illegal parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.16) (Ord. 0-80-2, passed 2-12-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking for persons with disabilities, see G.S. § 20-37.6
§ 72.07 PARKING LOT ESTABLISHED; FREE PARKING.
   (A)   Lots established; adjacent to municipal buildings.
      (1)   Under authority granted by G.S. § 160A-301(b) and the charter, the
lot owned by the city adjacent to the municipal building is designated an off-
street parking facility. The City Manager shall have the following action taken
as deemed necessary with regard to such parking facility:
         (a)   Lay off designated spaces and reserve the same for the use of
city officials, employees, and police officers;
         (b)   Lay off and reserve spaces for use of the general public making
short visits to the municipal building; and
         (c)   Lay off and reserve spaces for rental to the general public.
Fees shall be imposed and charges made for these spaces through meters, term
rentals, or any other feasible means and at charges and fees to be established
by the City Manager.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any reserved space
without proper authorization; it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any
rental space without paying the established fee or charge.
(Prior Code, § 72.17)
   (B)   Free parking on Hancock Street.
      (1)   The off-street parking lot located between Hancock and Lawrence
Streets and known as the Hancock Street Parking Lot is designated for free
parking with a two-hour time limit from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., excluding
Sundays and holidays.
      (2)   Appropriate signs shall be erected stating the same, and the Police
Department shall enforce the two-hour limit by the marking of tires.
(Prior Code, § 72.18)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160A-301(b)
§ 72.08 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Authorized. Upon the written request of the owner or person in general
charge of the operation and control of any parking areas or driveways of a
privately owned hospital, shopping center, apartment house, condominium
complex, commercial office complex, or other privately owned public vehicular
area, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(32), the city may regulate or prohibit
during specified hours the stopping, standing, or parking of motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.30)
   (B)   Application. The owner or person in general charge of the operation
and control of the property must submit the request for regulation, in writing,
on application forms available from the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 72.31)
   (C)   Signs.
      (1)   The cost of erecting, placing, or installing signs and the cost of
all necessary signs, as determined by the Chief of Police, shall be paid by the
person requesting regulations.
      (2)   All signs erected must be approved prior to placement or the
applicant may request that the city place the signs upon payment by the
applicant of all costs.
(Prior Code, § 72.32)
   (D)   Compliance with signs. No person shall stop, leave standing, or park a
motor vehicle in the areas specified in this section in violation of posted
signs, when signs are placed, erected, or installed giving notice that
stopping, standing, or parking is regulated or prohibited during certain hours
in that space or area.
(Prior Code, § 72.34)
(Ord. 0-80-10, passed 8-12-1980) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01(32)
MANNER OF PARKING
§ 72.20 VEHICLES NOT TO STOP IN STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the
approach of fire apparatus, an ambulance, or a funeral or other procession
which is given right-of-way by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by being given countermanding traffic signals, or by
the passing of some other vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency.
   (B)   In all the cases covered by these exceptions, the vehicles shall stop
so as not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing, or
street intersection if it can be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.21 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyance or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.22 PARKING PARALLEL.
   Where not otherwise indicated herein, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.23 LEFT SIDE TO POINT.
   No vehicle shall park with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except on one-way streets.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.24 WITHIN LINES.
   On any street marked with lines indicating the parking spaces for cars, cars
shall be parked between such lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.14)
CHAPTER 73: TOY AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
73.02   Riding on handle bars
   
73.03   Cycle rider to use handlebars; bicycles on sidewalks
   
73.04   Coasters, roller skates, and the like
   
73.05   Riding on sidewalks in business district
§ 73.01 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates,
or toy vehicle shall attach it or himself or herself to any public conveyance
or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 RIDING ON HANDLE BARS.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle on a street shall not carry any
person upon the handlebars, frame, or tank of his or her vehicle nor shall any
person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 CYCLE RIDER TO USE HANDLEBARS; BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands on the handlebars nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk or walkway.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND THE LIKE.
   No person on roller skates or riding in any coaster, toy vehicle, or similar
device shall go upon any roadway, unless it be while crossing a street at a
crosswalk or intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or operate any bicycle,
motorcycle, scooter, or any other riding device or vehicle of any type
whatsoever on the sidewalks in the business section of the city.
   (B)   The business section of the city shall be and is defined to be that
part of the city which has been laid out as business section by the Zoning
Ordinance adopted by the Mayor and City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.44) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   CEMETERIES
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   SPECIAL EVENTS
      
94.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: CEMETERIES
Section
   
90.01   Map of cemetery
   
90.02   Deed to lot
   
90.03   Pauper graves
   
90.04   Digging graves
   
90.05   Injuring property in cemetery
   
90.06   One interment in grave; exceptions
   
90.07   Night visits prohibited
   
90.08   Charges and prices
   
90.09   Removal of excess dirt from grave openings in East Side Cemetery
§ 90.01 MAP OF CEMETERY.
   The City Clerk and Treasurer shall keep a map of the cemetery showing
thereon all burial plots or squares which are offered for sale, together with
those sold, indicating the exact location of each.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 DEED TO LOT.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk and Treasurer to prepare and deliver to
the purchaser a deed to any plot or square in the cemetery after the full
purchase price has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 PAUPER GRAVES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to authorize the digging of all
graves for paupers on plots designated for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 90.03)
§ 90.04 DIGGING GRAVES.
   No person shall dig any grave in the cemetery without permission.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 INJURING PROPERTY IN CEMETERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to damage, destroy, or injure any property in or
belonging to the cemetery.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the level of any cemetery
lot to be raised by the hauling in of soil more than six inches above the level
of the surrounding paths or lots.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Injuring, removing fences or walls surrounding graveyards, see G.S. § 14-144
   Interfering with graveyards, see G.S. § 14-149
   Removing or defacing monuments and tombstones, see G.S. § 14-148
§ 90.06 ONE INTERMENT IN GRAVE; EXCEPTIONS.
   Only one interment shall be made in a grave, except a mother and infant or
two children in one coffin.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 NIGHT VISITS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the cemetery at any time
between sunset and sunrise for any purpose without a written consent from the
City Manager or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 CHARGES AND PRICES.
   The charges and prices of cemetery lots shall be as from time to time
established by the City Council. A listing of such charges and prices is
maintained in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to set fees and prices, see G.S. § 160A-348
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF EXCESS DIRT FROM GRAVE OPENINGS IN EAST SIDE CEMETERY.
   The following regulations shall apply to the removal of excess dirt from
grave openings in the city cemetery, known as East Side Cemetery.
   (A)   All excess dirt from grave openings shall be removed from the cemetery
area under supervision of the city for a fee which shall be set from time to
time by the Council and is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The mortuary arm in charge of a burial shall have the obligation and
the responsibility for payment of the above fee, including those conducted by
an outside city mortuary where there is an affiliation or reciprocal agreement.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Obedience to chapter; prima facie evidence
   
91.02   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
91.03   Fees for service
   
91.04   Building specifications for fire protection, escape
Fire Prevention Regulations
   
91.15   Accumulation of rubbish
   
91.16   Deposit of ashes and material liable to spontaneous combustion
   
91.17   Fire extinguishers
   
91.18   Gasoline and the like on streets
   
91.19   Parking gasoline trucks prohibited
   
91.20   Blasting
Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
91.35   Created
   
91.36   Fire Marshal
   
91.37   Technical inspectors
   
91.38   Duty to enforce
   
91.39   Investigation of fires
   
91.40   Inspections of facilities, premises, and the like
   
91.41   Order to correct dangerous conditions
   
91.42   Records; annual report
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Constructing on fire district, §
150.03
   Fire Chief, see §
31.26
   Fire Department, see §§
31.60 through
31.66
   Fire district established, see §
150.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 OBEDIENCE TO CHAPTER; PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter, to permit or maintain such a violation, to refuse to obey any
provision thereof or to fail or refuse to comply with any such provision or
regulation, except as variation may be allowed by the action of the Fire
Marshal in writing. Proof of such unlawful act or failure shall be deemed prima
facie evidence that such act is that of the owner or other person in control of
the premises. Prosecution or lack thereof of either the owner, occupant, or the
person in charge shall not be deemed to relieve any of the others.
(Prior Code, § 91.12) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.02 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Rockingham
Fire Prevention Code” or, where ambiguity will not result, as the “Fire
Prevention Code.”
(Prior Code, § 91.25)
   (B)   National Fire Protection Code adopted.
      (1)   The city adopts the State Building Code, together with its
incorporated standards and codes as listed in Annex A of such code and together
with Appendices A, B, D, E, G, and H of such code. Such code and appended
material are incorporated by reference.
      (2)   Such code and appended material, subject to the amendments and
deletions set forth herein, shall be in effect and shall be controlling within
the limits of the city.
      (3)   At least one copy of such code and appended material shall be kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 91.26)
   (C)   Amendments to code. The Fire Prevention Code, NFPA 1, as adopted in
this section, is amended to delete § 1-5, Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 91.27)
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
section.
      (2)   The Fire Chief may assign such qualified members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 91.28)
   (E)   Applicability. The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall apply
equally to both public and private property, and it shall apply to all
structures and their occupancies, except as otherwise specified.
(Prior Code, § 91.29)
   (F)   Construction. This section shall be deemed to be an exercise of the
police powers of the city for the preservation and protection of the public
health, peace, safety, and welfare, and all the provisions of the Fire
Prevention Code shall be liberally construed for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 91.30)
   (G)   Appeal to Council. Whenever the Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit applied for or when
it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that true intent
and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from such decision to the City Council within 30 days from
the date of the decision appealed.
(Prior Code, § 91.32)
(Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 FEES FOR SERVICE.
   The fees charged for services provided under this chapter shall be as from
time to time established by the City Council and as contained in the schedule
maintained on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 91.11)
§ 91.04 BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS FOR FIRE PROTECTION, ESCAPE.
   (A)   Encumbering fire escapes. It shall be unlawful to encumber any fire
escape, balcony, or ladder that is intended as a means of escape from fire. It
shall be the duty of all police officers and firefighters who shall discover
any encumbered fire escape to report the encumbrance through his or her
Department to the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall immediately notify
the owner, agent, or tenant to vacate or remove such encumbrance immediately.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
   (B)   Exit signs in theaters. It shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to
see that every theater or motion picture house shall have a sign which is kept
well lighted throughout each performance bearing the word “Exit” and showing
where persons may exit.
(Prior Code, § 91.05)
   (C)   Passageways lit and unobstructed. All doors, aisles, and passageways
within and leading into or out of theaters, churches, and other places of
public assemblage shall be lighted during the entire time in which any show,
performance, service, exhibition, lecture, concert, ball, or other assemblage
is taking place and shall be free from signs, easels, chairs, sofas, benches,
and any other articles that might obstruct or delay the exit of the audience.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
   (D)   Lights regulated for explosive storage areas. It shall be unlawful to
install or turn on any lights in any building where combustibles or explosives
are stored without first having secured a permit from the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 91.09)
Penalty, see §
91.99
FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
§ 91.15 ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH.
   No person shall permit any accumulation of wastepaper, weeds, litter, or
combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind to remain upon any roof
or in any court, yard, vacant lot, or other open space. Every owner or occupant
of property shall cut down and remove therefrom all weeds, grass, vines, and
other growth which endangers the property or any other property or which is
likely to catch fire.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 DEPOSIT OF ASHES AND MATERIAL LIABLE TO SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION.
   (A)   No person shall deposit ashes, smouldering coals or embers, greasy or
oily substances, or other matter liable to spontaneous combustion within 15
feet of any wooden or plastered wall, partition, fence, floor, sidewalk,
lumber, rubbish, or other combustible material, except in metallic or
noncombustible receptacles.
   (B)   (1)   Such receptacles, unless resting on the ground outside the
building, shall be placed on noncombustible stands and, in every case, shall be
kept at least two feet from any wall or partition.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the deposit of cold or wet
ashes and cinders for the improvement of any unpaved alley or walkway.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   The Chief of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall survey each assembly,
business, educational, industrial, healthcare, mercantile, storage, and
residential occupancy except dwelling units of multi-family buildings and
dwellings and shall specify such suitable fire extinguishing equipment,
systems, or appliances and fire-detecting devices as shall be necessary to
provide reasonable safety to persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.18 GASOLINE AND THE LIKE ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spill or pour gasoline or any other
volatile oil upon any street or to permit his or her car to leak gasoline or
oil upon any street of the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate explosive, corrosive, or flammable
substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
§ 91.19 PARKING GASOLINE TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of transporting
gasoline through the city by truck to park or cause to be parked a gasoline
truck on the street.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 BLASTING.
   It shall be unlawful to do any blasting without first having secured a
permit from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) Penalty, see §
91.99
BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.35 CREATED.
   (A)   To assist in the performance of the responsibilities and duties placed
upon the Fire Chief, a Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire Department is
created.
   (B)   Such Bureau shall operate under the supervision of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.36 FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Fire Chief shall designate a fire official of the Fire Department as
Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal shall be the administrator of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention and shall be responsible for the direct administration and
enforcement of the Fire Prevention Code under the supervision of the Fire
Chief. The Fire Marshal shall be appointed on the basis of examination or other
method for determining qualifications.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.37 TECHNICAL INSPECTORS.
   The Fire Chief may designate such number of Technical Inspectors as shall
from time to time be authorized by the City Manager. Such Technical Inspectors
shall be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the
position.
(Prior Code, § 91.47) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of inspectors, see G.S. § 160D- 1103
§ 91.38 DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
to enforce all laws and ordinances of the city covering the following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage, sale, and use of combustible, flammable, or explosive
materials;
      (3) The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems and fire extinguishing equipment;
      (4)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
      (5)   The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters, and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live, or
congregate from time to time for any purpose;
      (6)    The investigation of the causes, origins, and circumstances of
fires; and
      (7)   The maintenance of fire cause and loss records.
   (B)   Such officers shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties as are set forth in other sections of this code and as may be conferred
and imposed from time to time by law. The Fire Chief may delegate any powers or
duties under this chapter to the Fire Marshal.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall prepare instructions for the Fire Marshal and the
Fire Marshal’s assistants and forms for their use in the reports required by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.48) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.39 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   (1)   The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall investigate the cause,
origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged and, so far as possible, shall determine whether
the fire is the result of carelessness or design.
      (2)   Such investigations shall begin immediately upon the occurrence of
such a fire. The Fire Marshal shall take charge immediately of the physical
evidence, shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to pursue the
investigation of such matters and shall further cooperate with the authorities
in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case.
   (B)   Every fire shall be reported, in writing, to the Bureau within three
days after its occurrence by the Fire Department officer in whose jurisdiction
the fire has occurred. Such report shall be in the form as prescribed by the
Fire Marshal and shall contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause,
origin, and circumstances of the fire, the extent of the damage thereof, the
insurance upon the property and such other information as may be required,
including the injury, death, or rescue of persons.
(Prior Code, § 91.49) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.40 INSPECTIONS OF FACILITIES, PREMISES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Before permits may be issued, as required by this chapter, the Fire
Marshal or the Fire Marshal’s assistants shall inspect and approve the
receptacles, processes, vehicles, buildings, or storage places to be used.
(Prior Code, § 91.50)
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall inspect or cause to be inspected all premises
on a periodic basis and shall make such orders as may be necessary for the
enforcement of the laws and ordinances governing the same and for safeguarding
of life and property from fire.
(Prior Code, § 91.51)
(Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Periodic inspections, see G.S. § 160D-1117
   Inspection of premises, see G.S. §§ 58-79-1 et seq.
§ 91.41 ORDER TO CORRECT DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever an Inspector shall find in any building or upon any premises
or other places combustible or explosive matter or dangerous accumulations of
rubbish or unnecessary accumulation of wastepaper, boxes, shavings, or any
highly flammable materials especially liable to fire that are so situated as to
endanger property or shall find obstructions to or on fire escapes, stairs,
passageways, doors, or windows that may interfere with the operations of the
Fire Department or with egress of occupants in case of fire, the Inspector
shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and such order shall forthwith
be complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings,
subject to the appeals procedure provided for in this code.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant failing to comply with such order within a
reasonable period after the service of the order shall be subject to the
penalties as provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   The service of any such order may be made upon the occupant of the
premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy to such occupant
personally, by leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or, in
case no such person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy thereof in a
conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises. Whenever it may
be necessary to serve such an order upon the owner of the premises, the order
may be served either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the
order or, if such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making
the order, by mailing such copy by certified mail to the owner’s last known
post office address.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
§ 91.42 RECORDS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Records of fires.
      (1)   The Fire Marshal shall compile and keep a record of all fires and
of all the facts concerning the same, including injuries, deaths, rescue of
persons, and statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused
thereby and whether such losses were covered by insurance and, if so, in what
amount.
      (2)   The record shall be made daily from the reports made by the
technical inspectors under the provisions of this subchapter. All such records
shall be public.
(Prior Code, § 91.53)
   (B)   Annual report.
      (1)   The Fire Marshal shall make an annual report of the activities of
the Bureau of Fire Prevention and shall transmit this report to the City
Manager through the Fire Chief. The report shall contain all proceedings under
the Fire Prevention Code with such statistics as the Fire Chief may wish to
include therein.
      (2)   The Fire Chief and the Fire Marshal shall recommend any amendments
to the Fire Prevention Code or any other ordinance that they may consider
desirable.
(Prior Code, § 91.54)
(Ord. 12-86-6, passed 12-9-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Investigation of fires and reports and records of fires, see G.S. §§ 58-79-
1 et seq.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
91.02, including the material incorporated by reference; who shall fail to
comply therewith; who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder; who shall build in violation of any details, statements,
specifications, or plans submitted or approved thereunder; who shall operate
not in accordance with the provisions of any certificate, permit, or approval
issued thereunder and from which no appeal has been taken; or who shall fail to
comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the Fire Marshal or by a
court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed therein shall severally,
for each and every violation and act of noncompliance respectively, be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code. The imposition of a penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation nor shall the violation be permitted to continue. All such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, the application of
the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 91.31)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.02   Nuisances enumerated
   
92.03   Removal of animal carcasses; rapid-decay products
   
92.04   Smoking unlawful
   
92.05   Noise nuisances
Premises Nuisances
   
92.20   General prohibited conditions
   
92.21   Littering
   
92.22   Matter not to be buried
   
92.23   Stagnant water
Nuisance Vehicles
   
92.35   Definitions
   
92.36   Nuisance vehicles unlawful
   
92.37   Pre-towing notice requirements
   
92.38   Post-towing notice requirements
   
92.39   Probable cause hearing
   
92.40   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicles
   
92.41   Disposition of proceeds of sale
   
92.42   Immunity; exceptions
Investigations and Administration
   
92.55   Right of entry
   
92.56   Investigation of conditions
   
92.57   Initiation of proceedings
   
92.58   Order of abatement; notice
   
92.59   Appeal notice
   
92.60   Hearing
   
92.61   Cost of abatement; lien
   
92.62   Legal action
   
92.63   Removal of nuisances; failure to abate
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, allow, or
create a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.001) (Ord. passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property any of the following items,
conditions, or actions are declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided,
however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be exclusive,
limiting, or restrictive:
   (A)   Any condition which is a breeding place or harborage for mosquitoes or
a breeding place or harborage for rats or other pests;
   (B)   Any property which meets the following criteria concerning vegetative
growth:
      (1)   Vacant lots that are adjacent to intersection of streets that pose
a problem with the sight distance surrounding the intersection;
      (2)   Lots occupied by any structure (dwelling or commercial) that the
height of growth is inconsistent with neighboring properties; and
      (3)   Vacant lots not occupied by a structure but which are within 50
feet of an occupied structure and the growth of weeds and vegetation exceeds 24
inches in height.
   (C)   Any open place of collection of water where insects tend to breed;
   (D)   Any open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires or tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
   (E)   Any open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or
any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
   (F)   Any dilapidated furniture, appliances, machinery equipment, building
materials, or any similar items not enclosed in a building with functional
doors;
   (G)   Any furniture, appliances, or other metal products of any kind or
nature openly kept which have jagged edges of metal or glass or areas of
confinement;
   (H)   Any motor vehicle located on private property which is wholly or
partially dismantled and any related motor vehicle parts and tools not enclosed
in a garage with functional doors or covered with a tarp or canvass when not
actively being repaired;
   (I)   Any improper or inadequate drainage on private property which causes
flooding, interferes with the use of, or endangers, in any way, the streets,
sidewalks, parks, or other public property of any kind;
   (J)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs, in any way, the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains
to the extent that lots or properties are not free from standing water;
   (K)   Any tree which is dead or damaged and causes a safety hazard for
public and/or private property and which has been declared by a forester,
arborist, or other persons who are certified to make such declarations; and
   (L)   Any other condition specifically prohibited in this chapter or any
other condition specifically declared to be a nuisance or a danger to the
public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of inhabitants of the city
and a public nuisance by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.002) (Ord. passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REMOVAL OF ANIMAL CARCASSES; RAPID-DECAY PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Removal of animal carcasses. The owner of any animal which shall die
shall remove the carcass from the city for proper disposal at the landfill.
(Prior Code, § 92.062)
   (B)   Dealers in rapid-decay products. Dealers in meats, fish, oysters,
hides, or other articles subject to rapid decay shall be required to keep their
premises clean and free as possible from bad odors.
(Prior Code, § 92.064)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 SMOKING UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   The term SMOKING shall mean the inhaling, exhaling, burning, or
carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, or other combustible tobacco
product.
(Prior Code, § 92.075)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any building or
facility or portion of a building or facility now or hereafter owned, leased,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.076)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any vehicle now or
hereafter owned or leased by the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.077)
(Ord. passed 9-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NOISE NUISANCES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noise is prohibited. Noise of
such character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the life or
health of any individual is prohibited. Excessive and unnecessary noise creates
a significant threat to the public health, safety, and welfare. There has been
an alarming increase in the frequency and volume of noise from the many sound-
reproducing devices available today. It is the intent of this section to strike
an appropriate balance between the right of individuals to obtain information
and derive pleasure by listening to radios and other such devices and the right
of the public to a peaceful and healthful environment.
(Prior Code, § 92.090)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
dangerous to the public health, unreasonable, and unnecessary noises in
violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control or in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended, the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The playing, use, or otherwise operating, either from a motor
vehicle or as a pedestrian, any radio, tape player, or other sound-
amplification device emitting sound that is audible from a distance of 50 or
more feet from the source of the sound, unless such device is being used to
request assistance or warn against an unsafe condition;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, disturbs the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motorboat engine,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noise therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same is in session or
within 150 feet of any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution;
      (10)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes except where specific
license is received from the City Council; and
      (11)   The firing of gunpowder or other combustible substance in the
streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making a noise or disturbance, except
by permission from the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 92.091)
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Public safety personnel when responding to an emergency call or
engaged in other official business;
      (2)   Persons engaged in a lawful assembly, procession, or community
event;
      (3)   The operator of a public utility vehicle, when utilizing two-way
communications equipment;
      (4)   The operator of a vehicle being used for advertising purposes in
accordance with existing ordinances; and
      (5)   The activation of a theft alarm signal device.
(Prior Code, § 92.092)
(Ord. passed 8-10-1993; Ord. passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
92.99
PREMISES NUISANCES
§ 92.20 GENERAL PROHIBITED CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, agent, or person in control of
any lot or premises within the city’s jurisdiction to permit to remain thereon
any empty bottles, empty cans, abandoned motor vehicle bodies or parts,
household appliances, furniture, trash, filth, debris, weeds, dead animals,
garbage, or rubbish of any kind whatsoever, and it shall be the duty of any
owner, occupant, agent, or person in control of any lot or premises within the
city’s jurisdiction to keep same in a clean, healthy, wholesome, and sanitary
condition at all times.
(Prior Code, § 92.025) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place, sweep, or deposit
anywhere within the city’s jurisdiction any refuse on any public property or on
the property of another, without authority, or in such a manner that it may be
carried or deposited by the elements, upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer,
parkway, or other public places or unto any premises of another within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 92.026) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 92.22 MATTER NOT TO BE BURIED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fill any land with or dump upon any
land within the city’s jurisdiction any garbage, dead animals, decaying
vegetable or animal matter, or any offensive material nor shall any of the
aforesaid offensive materials be buried within the city but shall be disposed
of as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 92.027) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully permit any refuse or stagnant water
to remain in any pool or receptacle on his or her premises after being notified
to remove the same by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Prior Code, § 92.063) Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 92.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared, under this subchapter, to be a health or safety
hazard, a public nuisance, or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by order;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the City Council; or
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood,
or area’s appearance, upon a finding that such aesthetic regulation is
necessary and desirable for the protection of property values, promotion of
tourism, indirect protection of health and safety, preservation of the
character and integrity of the community, or promotion of the comfort,
happiness, and emotional stability of area residents.
(Prior Code, § 92.040) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.36 NUISANCE VEHICLES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or for the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located to
leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it has been declared
a nuisance vehicle. Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer may
determine and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard or a public
nuisance as defined above and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 92.041) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A vehicle to be towed or otherwise removed because it has been
declared to be a nuisance vehicle shall be towed only after notice to the owner
or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. If the names and mailing
addresses of the owner of the vehicle or the real property upon which it is
located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice
shall be given to both by first- class mail. The person who mails the notices
shall retain a written record to show the names and addresses to which mailed
and the date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained, notice
shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on
the vehicle. The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the
city on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   If the owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is a nuisance
vehicle, the appeal shall be made to the Board of Adjustment, in writing, heard
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board, and further proceedings
to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (C)   A nuisance vehicle may be removed without giving the minimum seven
days’ prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official
finds, and enters such findings in appropriate records, a special need for
prompt action to maintain the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 92.042) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.38 POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any vehicle which has been determined to be a nuisance vehicle may be
removed to a storage garage or area by a towing business contracted to perform
such services for the city. Whenever the vehicle is removed, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of
the vehicle, the notice to include the following:
      (1)   A description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   This notice shall be mailed to the owner’s last known address, unless
waived in writing.
   (C)   (1)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be
mailed within 24 hours.
      (2)   If the vehicle is not registered in this state, notice shall be
mailed to the owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever a nuisance vehicle is removed and such vehicle has no valid
registration or registration plate, the authorizing city official shall make
reasonable efforts, including the checking of the vehicle identification
number, to determine the last known registered owner of the vehicle and to
notify him or her of the information as set forth in divisions (A)(1) through
(A)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 92.043) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.39 PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   After removal of a vehicle declared to be a nuisance vehicle, the
owner or other person entitled to possession may request, in writing, a hearing
to determine if probable cause existed for removing the vehicle.
   (B)   The request must be filed with the Magistrate in the county where the
vehicle was towed.
   (C)   The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Prior Code, § 92.044) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Relative provisions, see G.S. § 20-219.11
§ 92.40 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (A)   With the consent of the owner, the Code Enforcement Officer may
dispose of any vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without holding it for any
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   Any unclaimed junked motor vehicle, as defined by this subchapter,
shall be held for a period of at least 15 days. The owner of any such vehicle
may claim his or her vehicle during the 15-day retention period by exhibiting
proof of ownership to the Code Enforcement Officer and after paying all
reasonable costs incident to the removal and storage of the vehicle, plus
administrative expenses. If the vehicle is held 15 days and it remains
unclaimed, the vehicle may be destroyed or sold at private sales as junk.
   (C)   (1)   Within 15 days after final disposition of a junked motor
vehicle, written notice thereof shall be given to the Department of Motor
Vehicles that the vehicle has been determined to be a junked motor vehicle and
disposed of as such.
      (2)   The notice shall contain as full and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
(Prior Code, § 92.045) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.41 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   (A)   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle declared to be a
nuisance, after all costs of removal, storage, investigation, and sale and
satisfaction of any lien of record on the vehicle have been deducted therefrom,
shall be held by the City Finance Officer for 30 days and paid to the owner
upon demand.
   (B)   If the owner does not appear to claim the remainder of the proceeds
within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle, the funds shall be paid to the
Clerk of Superior Court, as provided in G.S. § 44A-5(3).
(Prior Code, § 92.046) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 44A-5(3)
§ 92.42 IMMUNITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Immunity. Neither the city nor any person shall be held to answer in
any civil or criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of any junked, lost, or stolen vehicle for disposing of such
vehicle as contemplated by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.047)
   (B)   Exceptions. Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any motor
vehicle in an enclosed building, any motor vehicle kept or stored at a bona
fide automobile graveyard or junkyard (as defined in G.S. § 136-143), or to any
motor vehicle that is used on a regular basis for business or personal use.
(Prior Code, § 92.048)
(Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 136-143
INVESTIGATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 92.55 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer and other designated personnel are given full
power and authority to enter upon premises upon which a nuisance is found to
exist under the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of abating the
nuisance as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 92.009) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.56 INVESTIGATION OF CONDITIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer, upon notice from any person of the existence
of any of the conditions described in this chapter, shall make or cause to be
made such investigation as may be necessary to determine whether, in fact, such
conditions constitute a public nuisance as declared.
(Prior Code, § 92.003) (Ord. passed 9-14-1993)
§ 92.57 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Proceedings to declare any condition a nuisance under the provisions
of this chapter may be initiated by the Code Enforcement Officer after giving
written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner and
occupant of the premises upon which such condition exists.
   (B)   Under extreme conditions, as determined by the Code Enforcement
Officer, §
92.62 may be invoked.
(Prior Code, § 92.004) (Ord. passed 9-14-1993)
§ 92.58 ORDER OF ABATEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   Order of abatement; notice. Upon a determination by the Code
Enforcement Officer that such conditions constitute a public nuisance, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall notify, in writing, the owner and occupant or person
in possession of the premises in question of the conditions constituting such
public nuisance and shall order the prompt abatement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 92.005)
   (B)   Contents of notice; order to abate. The notice to abate a nuisance
issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain:
      (1)   A statement that conditions exist on the property which constitute
a public nuisance;
      (2)   The condition existing;
      (3)   The location of such condition; and
      (4)   A statement ordering the owner and the occupant or person in
possession of the premises to abate the public nuisance and that, unless the
condition is abated within 15 days from the mailing of the notice as specified
in division (A) above, which shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the conditions constituting a nuisance will be abated by the city,
and the cost of abatement shall constitute a lien against the premises.
(Prior Code, § 92.006)
(Ord. passed 9-14-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement by local health director, see G.S. § 130A-19
   Authority to abate health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 92.59 APPEAL NOTICE.
   Within the time period stated in the notice to abate, the owner or occupant
of the property where the nuisance exists may appeal the findings of the Code
Enforcement Officer to the Board of Adjustment by giving written notice of
appeal to such officer, such appeal to stay the abatement of the nuisance by
the city until a final determination by the Board. In the event no appeal is
taken, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 92.007) (Ord. passed 9-14-1993)
§ 92.60 HEARING.
   The Board of Adjustment, in the event an appeal is taken as provided herein,
may, after hearing all interested persons and reviewing the findings of the
Code Enforcement Officer, reverse or affirm the finding that a nuisance exists
in the city. Any and all appeals from a decision by the Board of Adjustment
shall be taken to the Superior Court within 15 days from the decision.
(Prior Code, § 92.008) (Ord. passed 6-14-93)
§ 92.61 COST OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   After the abatement of a nuisance, as provided in this chapter, the cost of
the abatement may become a lien against the premises upon confirmation of the
cost thereof by the City Council. The confirmation shall take place only after
ten days’ written notice to the owner of the premises where the nuisance
existed of the proposed confirmation. Upon confirmation, the cost of abatement
shall be a lien against the premises from which the nuisance was abated, the
same to be recorded as provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10, and to be
collected as unpaid tax.
(Prior Code, § 92.010) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10
§ 92.62 LEGAL ACTION.
   The City Council may direct the Code Enforcement Officer to pursue the
matter of collection of the assessed penalties in a civil action court case.
(Prior Code, § 92.011) (Ord. passed 6-14-1993)
§ 92.63 REMOVAL OF NUISANCES; FAILURE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Removal of nuisances. The owner, lessee, tenant, or occupant of any
building or premises where there shall be a nuisance or any violation of any
ordinance of the city relating to health and sanitation shall be jointly and
severally liable therefor and shall be required to abate the same or comply
with the order of the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her assistants within
the specified time within the order.
(Prior Code, § 92.060)
   (B)   Failure to abate. The city shall have authority to summarily remove,
abate, or remedy everything in the city limits or within one mile thereof that
is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health. The expense of the action
shall be paid by the person in default and, if not paid, shall be a lien upon
the land or premises where the trouble arose and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
(Prior Code, § 92.061)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances, see G.S. § 130A-19
   Authority of city to abate public health nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of §§
92.01,
92.02,
92.20 through
92.22,
92.35 through
92.42, or
92.55 through
92.62 or of any obligation imposed by these sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor in addition to and separate from any of the remedies set forth by
those sections. Any person cited under the provisions thereof shall be assessed
a penalty of $50 for each day and every day during which such violations shall
continue. Each day shall be a separate and distinct.
   (C)   Violation of §
92.05 shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty for the first offense shall be $50.
The penalty for a second or subsequent offense shall be $300.
(Prior Code, § 92.999) (Ord. passed 10-9-1990; Ord. passed 8-10-1993; Ord.
passed 9-14-1993)
CHAPTER 93: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Foot and bicycle races
   
93.02   Firearms and weapons prohibited during events
Parades
   
93.15   Parade conduct
   
93.16   Obtaining permit
   
93.17   Permit revocation
Picketing and Group Demonstrations
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Notice of intent and receipt required
   
93.32   Picketing activity standards
   
93.33   Interference; police authority; failure to leave
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 FOOT AND BICYCLE RACES.
   (A)   The term FOOT RACE, as used in this section, is defined as a group of
three or more runners or walkers competing against either each other or a time
limit over a fixed course, all or a part of which involves the use of city
street right-of-way.
   (B)   The term BICYCLE RACE, as used in this section, is defined as a group
of three or more bicyclists competing against each other or a time limit over a
fixed course, all or a part of which involves the use of city street right-of-
way.
   (C)   Application for a race covered by this section shall be made, in
writing, to the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent at least 15
working days before the time at which the race shall be scheduled to begin and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing the race;
      (2)   The location or locations in the city where the race is proposed to
take place;
      (3)   The date and hours for which permit is sought;
      (4)   The name of the person applying for the permit;
      (5)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate; and
      (6)   The person or persons to be in charge of the activity and who will
accompany it and carry the permit at all times.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application properly completed and timely filed as
hereinabove set out, the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall
immediately issue a permit consistent with the standards prescribed herein. The
permit shall contain all information stated on the application and shall be
signed by the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent.
   (E)   The following standards shall apply to all footraces and bicycle races
subject to this section conducted in the city.
      (1)   No more than one race may be conducted within the city at any one
time.
      (2)   Every race shall follow a route approved by the Chief of Police or
his or her designated agent.
      (3)   No one participating in a race or proceeding along the route of a
race shall distribute therefrom any candy, cigarettes, prizes, or favors of any
kind.
      (4)   No vicious animal, whether leashed or unleashed, shall participate
in or proceed along the route of a race.
      (5)   The organizer of an event subject to this section shall make
provision for proper safety procedures at intersections and along other
sections of the right-of-way. The location of the safety monitors shall be
determined by the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent, and the
personnel shall be provided at no cost to the city. Personnel hired for such
duties shall be sworn law enforcement officers, certified by the State Criminal
Justice Training and Standards Council.
      (6)   The permit shall not be issued until the sponsor shall acquire
sufficient insurance or approval by the City Attorney to indemnify the city for
damages or liability which the city might incur.
(Ord. passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS PROHIBITED DURING EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess on or about his or her
person or vehicle any firearm or dangerous weapon of any kind, as defined
below, whether exposed or concealed, while participating in any parade, picket,
demonstration, foot race, or bicycle race.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person present at any parade, picket,
demonstration, foot race, or bicycle race or any person upon any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public property within 500 feet of any parade,
picket, demonstration, foot race, or bicycle race to possess on or about his or
her person or vehicle any firearm or dangerous weapon of any kind, as defined
below, whether exposed or concealed.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the term DANGEROUS WEAPON shall be
defined as any device or substance designed or capable of being used to inflict
serious injury to any person or property; including, but not limited to:
firearms, airguns, BB guns, pellet guns, knives or razors with a blade more
than three inches in length, metallic knuckles, clubs, blackjacks, nightsticks,
dynamite cartridges, bombs, grenades, knives, explosives, molotov cocktails,
and sword canes.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to the following persons while acting
lawfully and within the scope of their duties and authority:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers; and
      (2)   Officers and soldiers of the armed forces, militia, and National
Guard.
(Ord. passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARADES
§ 93.15 PARADE CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definition of parade; permit required.
      (1)   The term PARADE, as used in this section, is defined as an
assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating any vehicle in
any march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or in any procession, promotion, or
objection of any kind in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds in any manner; provided, the term shall not include:
         (a)   Pickets, group demonstrations, and the like, as defined in §
93.30;
         (b)   Funeral processions;
         (c)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its
functions;
         (d)   Bands or marching groups proceeding to an assembly point for
participation in a parade; or
         (e)   Foot races and bicycle races.
      (2)   No parade shall be conducted on the public ways of this city, and
no person shall inaugurate, promote, or participate in any such parade unless
the parade is conducted in conformity with the requirements set out herein and
unless a permit has been approved by the Chief of Police or his or her
designated agent and obtained from the City Clerk or his or her designated
agent.
   (B)   Standards for conduct of parades. The following standards shall apply
to all parades conducted in the city.
      (1)   No parade or part thereof may be conducted on the streets of the
city between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   No more than one parade may be conducted within the city at any one
time.
      (3)   Every parade shall follow a route approved by the Police Chief. The
Police Chief shall approve no route which is incompatible with the preservation
of public health, safety, and welfare. The Police Chief’s disapproval of a
proposed route may be appealed to the City Manager.
      (4)   No one participating in a parade or proceeding along the route of a
parade shall distribute therefrom any candy, cigarettes, prizes, or favors of
any kind.
      (5)   No vicious animal, whether leashed or unleashed, shall participate
in or proceed along the route of a parade.
(Ord. passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parades, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 93.16 OBTAINING PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a parade permit shall be made in writing to the Chief
of Police or his or her designated agent, at least 24 hours and no more than
180 days, before the time at which the parade is to be scheduled to begin and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing the parade;
      (2)   The location or locations in the city where the parade is proposed
to take place;
      (3)   The date and hours for which permit is sought;
      (4)   The name of the person applying for the permit;
      (5)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate; and
      (6)   The person or persons to be in charge of the activity and who will
accompany it and carry the permit at all times.
   (B)   (1)   Upon approval by the Chief of Police or his or her designated
agent of an application properly completed and timely filed as hereinabove set
out, the City Clerk or his or her designated agent shall immediately issue a
permit consistent with the standards prescribed herein.
      (2)   The permit shall contain all information stated on the application
and shall be signed by the City Clerk or his or her designated agent.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
§ 93.17 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designated agent may revoke any permit
granted for a parade if:
   (A)   Any person violates the standards for the conduct of parades set out
herein; or
   (B)   Any participant in a parade fails to comply with the formation, terms,
and conditions set out in the application and permit or fails to comply with
the terms of this section.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
PICKETING AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. As used herein, is deemed to include any assembly
together or concert of action between or among two or more persons for the
purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any position or promotion
of such persons or of or on behalf of any organization or class of persons or
for the purpose of attracting attention.
   PICKET, PICKET LINE, PICKETS, and PICKETING. As used herein, are deemed to
include two or more demonstrators (persons participating in vigils) and any
action primarily promoting or objecting to a policy upon those portions of the
public ways not used primarily for vehicular parking and moving traffic and not
constituting a parade.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
§ 93.31 NOTICE OF INTENT AND RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   Peaceful picketing shall be permitted in the city provided the same is done
under the following conditions.
   (A)   No picketing shall be conducted on the public ways of this city and no
person shall participate in the same unless notice of intent to picket has been
given to the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent and unless a
receipt of such notice has been issued.
   (B)   (1)   A group of ten or more persons shall give notice of intent to
picket in writing to the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent, and
the notice given shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing to picket unless the group indicates that it intends to picket
anonymously; in which case, no name is required;
         (b)   The location or locations in the city where the pickets propose
to assemble and demonstrate;
         (c)   The date or dates on which the picketing is to occur;
         (d)   The name of the person and organization giving notice of intent
to picket unless the person or organization indicates that it intends to picket
anonymously; in which case, no name is required;
         (e)   Whether or not persons below the age of 18 years are expected to
participate; and
         (f)   The person or persons to be in charge of the activity and who
will accompany it and carry any receipt of notice at all times.
      (2)   A group of fewer than ten persons may give written notice of intent
to picket but is not required to do so.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in picketing before or about
the residence or dwelling of any individual.
   (D)   Upon the giving of notice of intent to picket, properly completed as
hereinabove set out, the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall
immediately issue a receipt of notice. The receipt shall contain all
information stated in the notice. Notice shall be given by the holder of a
receipt of notice to the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent
immediately upon the cessation of such picketing for a period of 24 hours or
more. Before resumption of picketing interrupted for any such period, a new
notice shall be given and a new receipt issued.
(Ord. passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.32 PICKETING ACTIVITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Picketing shall be conducted only on portions of the public ways not
used primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic.
   (B)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
36 inches, provided the words used would not tend to incite violence.
   (C)   If pickets promoting different objectives, causes, actions, or
policies desire to use a sidewalk that is already used for picketing, the Chief
of Police or the Chief’s designated agents shall allot a number of pickets
promoting each objective to use such sidewalk on an equitable basis,
proportionate to the number of objectives being promoted.
   (D)   Pickets shall be restricted to the use of the outermost half of the
sidewalk or other public way nearest the street and shall not, at any time nor
in any way, obstruct, interfere with, or block: persons entering or exiting
from vehicles; persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way; the
entrance or exit to any building or access to property abutting the street or
sidewalk; or pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (E)   No person observing, engaging in, or assisting in picketing shall
bring to or allow to remain in the immediate area of picketing any vicious
animal.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for a group of ten or more persons to picket
without filing a notice as required herein.
   (G)   The provisions of §§
93.30 and
93.31 and this section are mandatory and not merely directory, and failure to
comply with the provisions of these sections is hereby declared to be unlawful
and punishable as provided by law.
(Ord. passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.33 INTERFERENCE; POLICE AUTHORITY; FAILURE TO LEAVE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
pickets in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive, or
threatening language to or at those pickets which would tend to provoke the
pickets or others to a breach of the peace.
   (B)   The police officers of the city may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in such numbers as to tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful
objective through numbers alone or through use of inflammatory words, direct
the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who fails to
absent himself or herself from the place of such assemblage when so directed by
the police.
   (C)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the city shall
be obstructed by a crowd, whether or not the crowd assembles as a result of or
in connection with picketing, the persons composing such crowd shall disperse
or move on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a police
officer, as herein provided.
(Ord. passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Responsibility of owner
   
94.03   Rabies control
   
94.04   Maintenance of lots, pens, and the like
   
94.05   Animal Control Branch
   
94.06   Record keeping
   
94.07   Impoundment
Prohibited Conduct
   
94.20   Running at large
   
94.21   Keeping of hogs
   
94.22   Prohibited acts enumerated
   
94.23   Teasing, molesting, and the like
   
94.24   Keeping strays; police notification
   
94.25   Injured dog; must notify
   
94.26   Interfering with animal control
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A place provided and operated by the county for the
restraint, care, and disposition of animals.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under control either by
leash, cord, or chain or without the immediate and effective control of the
owner or other responsible person.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex over the age of four months.
   CONTROL. Within 50 feet of the owner and not on the private property of
others.
   DOG. Both male and female over the age of four months.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog or cat and for the
purpose of this chapter; the head of the household shall be deemed to be the
OWNER in respect to any dog or cat owned, kept, or harbored by any person
residing in such household and kept on such premises.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT, within the meaning of this chapter, if:
      (1)   It is under sufficient physical restraint, such as a chain, leash,
or similar effective and humane device which restrains and controls the dog.
If, any unattended dog is restrained by a chain, leash, or similar RESTRAINT,
it shall be designated and placed to prevent choking or strangulation. Such
chain or RESTRAINT shall not be less than ten feet in length and shall be on a
swivel designed to prevent the dog from choking or strangling itself. The
RESTRAINT of unattended dogs by a chain, leash, or similar restraint is further
regulated under §
94.22(G);
      (2)   It is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or
      (3)   Adequately contained by a fence or other secure enclosure on the
premises.
   TETHERING. Tethering means the tying out or fastening a dog outdoors on a
rope, chain, or other type of line for holding a dog. This shall not include
tying out or fastening a dog outdoors on an attended leash.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which has bitten one or more persons without
provocation or one in which a propensity to attack humans exists and such
propensity is known or ought to reasonably be known to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007; Ord. 6-3-11, passed - -
2011)
§ 94.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   Owners of dogs and cats are responsible for the acts of their dogs and cats.
The owner of any dog or cat which is a nuisance on the property of another
person or which damages another person’s property or person is fully
responsible and accountable for these acts.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007)
§ 94.03 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Every dog or cat that bites a human being shall be delivered, within
eight hours, by the owner to the county animal shelter or to a licensed
veterinary hospital where it shall be confined for observations for not less
than ten days at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Wounds inflicted by dogs or cats on human beings shall be reported
immediately to the Health Department by the person who has been bitten by the
dog or cat or, in the case of a child, by his or her parent or guardian, as
specified in G.S. § 130A-196.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 130A-196
§ 94.04 MAINTENANCE OF LOTS, PENS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every person who owns or maintains any pen, lot, shelter, or other
place where dogs are kept shall maintain such place in a clean, sanitary
condition which precludes the drifting of odors beyond the boundaries of his or
her own property, and such owner shall provide shelter from inclement weather
for the animals.
   (B)   (1)   No pen, shelter, or kennel shall be located in the front yard of
any residence.
      (2)   Any pen, shelter, or kennel located in a front yard on the
effective date of this section shall be relocated or removed from the front
yard within 15 days from the effective date.
(Prior Code, § 95.19) (Ord. 3-1-07, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 ANIMAL CONTROL BRANCH.
   (A)   Creation. There is created an Animal Control Branch for the city, with
the Branch being a part of the City Police Department.
      (1)   An animal control officer shall be employed to perform all of the
duties incident to the administration and enforcement of this chapter and to
perform such other duties as by general statute or city ordinance may be
imposed, and the officer shall work under the supervision of the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
      (2)   The Police Department shall be the point of contact for city
citizens as pertains to animals.
(Prior Code, § 95.35)
   (B)   Duties. Duties of the Animal Control Branch include:
      (1)   Enforcement of the city laws, ordinances, and resolutions relating
to dogs and cats or to the care, custody, and control of animals;
      (2)   Cooperation with the county agencies in the enforcement of the laws
of the state with regard to dogs and/or cats and as to the confinement and
leashing of vicious animals. Reference is particularly made to the state laws
as set out and contained in G.S. §§ 67-1 through 67-28 and 130A-184 et seq.;
and
      (3)   Investigations of reported and observed cruelty or animal abuse
with regard to dogs, cats, and other animals within the city limits, pursuant
to the provisions of G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 95.36)
(Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-360 et seq., 67-1 through 67-28, and 130-
184 et seq.
§ 94.06 RECORD KEEPING.
   It shall be the duty of the County Animal Control Officer to keep or cause
to be kept accurate and detailed records as outlined in Paragraph IV of the
County Rabies Control Program.
(Prior Code, § 95.37)
§ 94.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog or cat within the city without an owner that is given
into the custody or a city animal control officer, pursuant to §
94.24, or any dog running at large shall be taken by a city animal control
officer and confined in the animal shelter controlled by the county for a
period established by the county for redemption by the owner.
      (2)   Complete and accurate records of all activities is the
responsibility of the county.
(Prior Code, § 95.38)
   (B)   (1)   Immediately upon impounding an animal from the city, the animal
shelter personnel shall attempt to notify the owner by telephone and inform
such owner of the conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
      (2)   If the attempt to notify by telephone is unsuccessful, an official,
dated, written notice shall be mailed to the owner’s address shown on records
when a county privilege license was purchased.
(Prior Code, § 95.39)
(Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 94.20 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any of his or her animals or
fowl to run at large on any of the streets or public lots of the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   City authorized to regulate, restrain, and prohibit the running at large of
domestic animals, see G.S. § 160A-186
§ 94.21 KEEPING OF HOGS.
   No person shall be permitted to keep or maintain any hog pen or keep any
hogs within the city.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 PROHIBITED ACTS ENUMERATED.
   (A)    Limitation on number. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep more
than three dogs within the corporate limits of the city. It shall be unlawful
for any owner to keep more than three cats within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (B)   Vicious dogs. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious
dog within the city limits.
   (C)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow any dog
of his or hers to run at large within the city limits. When walking dogs, they
must be under leash or control, and the owner shall not permit the dog to enter
on or disturb in any manner the property of others, even though under leash.
   (D)   Female dogs in heat. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any female
dog in heat to keep the same within the city limits during such period, unless
confined to the premises of the owner or other person, with the person’s
consent.
   (E)   Barking dogs. It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have
within the city a dog that habitually or repeatedly barks in such manner or to
such extent that it is a public nuisance.
   (F)   Dogs which are nuisances. It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep
on his or her lot or premises any dog that causes unsanitary conditions or
barks, howls, fights, or makes such other noises as to disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood or general public and causes a neighborhood or public
nuisance. Failure to abate any such nuisance, upon warning from the Chief of
Police or his or her duly authorized representative, shall be a misdemeanor,
subject to punishment.
   (G)   Restraint of animals.
      (1)   Physical restraint.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession,
charge, custody, or control of any animal, excluding cats, to keep such animal
on his or her own premises or off the premises, unless such animal is under
sufficient physical restraint to control the animal or within a vehicle or
adequately contained by a fence on the premises or other secure enclosure.
         (b)   If the physical restraint used is a leash requiring a person to
control the animal, the person using such restraint must be of sufficient age
and physical size or ability to reasonably restrain the animal.
         (c)   If the secure enclosure is an invisible fence system, then all
components of the system must be in working order and in proper place.
Additionally, there must be a visible, permanent sign on the premises stating
that there is an invisible fence.
      (2)   Tethering. Dogs may be tethered to a stationary object only if
conditions in divisions (G)(2)(a) through (G)(2)(i) below are met.
         (a)   A tether shall be equipped with a swivel on both ends.
         (b)   A tether shall be a minimum of ten feet in length and shall be
made of either metal chain or coated steel cable.
         (c)   Tethers shall be attached to a buckle-type collar or harness and
under no circumstances shall the tether itself be placed directly around a
dog’s neck. Tethers shall not be used in conjunction with training collars such
as choke or pinch-style collars.
         (d)   The weight of the tether shall not exceed 10% of the total body
weight of the dog but shall be of sufficient strength to prevent breakage.
         (e)   The tether, by design and placement, shall allow the dog a
reasonable and unobstructed range of motion without the possibility of
entanglement, strangulation, or other injury. The tether shall allow the dog
access to adequate food, water, and shelter.
         (f)   A dog must be four months of age or older to be tethered.
         (g)   Only one dog shall be attached to a single tether.
         (h)   Pulley systems, running lines, and trolley systems may be used
in conjunction with a tether.
         (i)   Pulley systems, running lines, and trolley systems shall be at
least ten feet in length and no more than seven feet above the ground.
            1.   The line of the pulley system, running line, or trolley system
to which the tether is attached shall be made of coated steel cable.
            2.   No tether shall be affixed to a stationary object which would
allow a dog to come within five feet of any property line.
         (j)   An animal control officer may, in his or her discretion, order a
more restrictive tethering requirement if circumstances require and it is not
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of a dog.
         (k)   Citizens residing in town homes, apartments, condos, or similar
multi-family housing units with lot sizes insufficient to meet the length and
property line requirements, specified in divisions (B)(2)(i) and (G)(2)(b)
above, may only tether dogs for temporary exercise and relief.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007; Ord. 6-3-11, passed - -
2011) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Confinement of vicious animals, see G.S. § 130A-200
   Permitting bitch at large, see G.S. § 67-2
§ 94.23 TEASING, MOLESTING, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tease, molest, bait, or, in any way,
bother any dog not belonging to him or her or legally under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 95.18) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 KEEPING STRAYS; POLICE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise
any dog or cat that does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within
48 hours from the time the dog or cat came into his or her possession, notified
the Police Department.
   (B)   Upon receiving the notice, a city animal control officer may take the
dog or cat and place it in the shelter, record same, and shall deal with it as
provided in §
94.07(A) and attempt to find the owner.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 INJURED DOG; MUST NOTIFY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring a dog or cat by running over or
into it with an automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, or other vehicle to fail to
notify immediately the owner or Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 6-3-07, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or molest a
city animal control officer in the performance of any duty authorized by this
chapter or to seek to release any animal in the custody of the officer.
(Prior Code, § 95.22) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any violation of this chapter is both a civil offense and a
misdemeanor criminal offense.
      (2)   The fine for a criminal violation of this chapter shall be up to
$500 or larger if allowed by G.S. § 14-4. Misdemeanor violations shall be
enforced by the issuance of citations or by arrest according to the same
procedures used for other criminal violations.
   (B)   The first violation of this chapter shall subject to the violator to a
civil penalty of $50 and impoundment of the offending animal or animals. The
second violation during a 12-month period shall be subject to a civil penalty
of $200 and impoundment of the offending animal or animals. The third violation
of this chapter, within a 12-month period, shall subject to the violator to a
civil penalty of $300 and banning the of offending animal or animals from the
city limits. Civil citations shall be served personally upon the owner or
violator by a animal control officer, by a member of the City Police Department
or by any other means authorized for the service of civil process by the State
Rules of Civil Procedure. If a violator fails to pay the civil penalty within
ten days after being notified of the amount due, the city shall seek to recover
the penalty together with all costs by filing a civil action in the General
Court of Justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt.
   (C)   Appeal of civil penalty shall be made within seven days of issuance of
citation or notice of violation. The appeal shall be made to the City Manager,
and the City Manager will conduct a hearing on the appeal. The decision of the
City Manager shall be final.
   (D)   It will be necessary to substitute this section for §
10.99 and at the end of §§
94.20 through
94.24 and 94.26.
(Ord. 6-3-11, passed - -2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSES GENERALLY
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
113.   WRECKER AND TOW SERVICE
      
114.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
AND LICENSES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Yard sales
Licenses
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   License required
   
110.17   Not transferable
   
110.18   License required for each place of building; relocation; sale
   
110.19   Display of licenses
   
110.20   Revocation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 YARD SALES.
   (A)   License required. Any person wishing to conduct a yard sale at the
person’s residence in the city shall first secure a license from the city as
provided by state law and this chapter.
   (B)   Duration of license. The license required by division (A) above will
grant authority for the individual to conduct a yard sale at the individual’s
residence for a stated period of five consecutive days. Thereafter, a license
may not be secured for a yard sale at the same residence or by the same
individual until a period of six months from the first date of the sale has
elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 0-80-5, passed 5-13-1980) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer, or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation, or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with the following
June 30.
(Prior Code, § 110.15)
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the city for which there is required a license
without first having obtained the license. For purpose of this section, the
OPENING OF A PLACE OF BUSINESS or OFFERING TO SELL, followed by a single sale
or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance of the business, shall be
construed to be engaging in or carrying on such business, and each day that
such person, firm, or corporation shall engage in or carry on the business
shall be construed to be separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not be transferable.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the City Council from
prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed. All licenses are
granted subject to the provisions of existing and subsequently enacted
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 110.17)
§ 110.18 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH PLACE OF BUILDING; RELOCATION; SALE.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is valid only
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse, store,
stall, stand, or other place of business shall secure a separate license for
each such place of business, unless the places of business are contiguous to
each other, communicate directly with and open into each other and are operated
as a unit. If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 110.22)
§ 110.19 DISPLAY OF LICENSES.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the license wherever the business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Prior Code, § 110.23)
§ 110.20 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Revocation of license.
      (1)   Any license issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the City
Council after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in division (B)
below.
      (2)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   Standards for revocation. A license granted under this subchapter may
be revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license
application;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of the felony or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the
public; or
      (6)   Interference with or failure to cooperate with a law enforcement
officer in the official performance of his or her duties on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. passed - -2003)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation
   
111.06   Appeals
   
111.07   License displayed
   
111.08   City policy on soliciting
   
111.09   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.10   Prohibited solicitation
   
111.11   Soliciting from streets or medians
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any person who travels, by any means, from place to place taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
      (2)   A person who is a SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses under this chapter shall expire 120 days after the date
of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed - -2001; Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant,
if an individual; by all partners, if a partnership; or by the president, if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management, authority, or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown
and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant or the individual identified in
division (A)(2) above or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to
those requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. passed - -2023)
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general
welfare.
      (2)   In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
         (d)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
         (e)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Revocation procedures.
      (1)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by
the Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in division (B)
below.
      (2)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
   (B)   Revocation standards. A license granted under this chapter may be
revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license
application;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner of in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
(Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.06 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.05(B) shall have the right to appeal to the City Manager. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the City Manager, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The City Manager shall set the time and place for a hearing, and
notice for such hearing shall be given to such person in the same manner as
provided herein.
   (B)   The order of the City Manager after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.07 LICENSE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “licensed
peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license.
      (2)   The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he
or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.08 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be or shall not be invited to their respective residences.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. passed - -2001)
§ 111.09 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence
shall be given on a weather-proof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED.”
      (2)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the Chief of Police shall provide the cards to persons
requesting, at the cost thereof.
      (3)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 111.10)
   (B)   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice. It shall be the duty of every
solicitor, upon going onto any premises in the city upon which a residence is
located, to first examine the notice provided for in division (A) above, if any
is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice. If the
notice states,”NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises. Any
solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 111.11)
(Ord. passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring a doorbell upon or near any door or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.09.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 SOLICITING FROM STREETS OR MEDIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand, sit, or loiter in any street
or highway, including the shoulders or median strip, but excluding sidewalks,
and to stop or attempt to stop any vehicle for the purpose of soliciting or
accepting contributions from the occupants of any vehicle or for the purpose of
distributing merchandise to the occupants of any vehicle. It also shall be
unlawful for any person to stand, sit, or loiter in any street or highway,
including the shoulders or median strip but excluding sidewalks, and to solicit
or accept contributions from the occupant of any stopped vehicle or to
distribute merchandise to the occupants of any stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs
   
112.01   Certificate of convenience
   
112.02   Liability
   
112.03   Rates and fares posted
   
112.04   Annual license
   
112.05   Operator’s permit required; application
   
112.06   Operator’s permit issuance, revocation
   
112.07   Operator’s permit posted; identification attached
   
112.08   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
TAXICABS
§ 112.01 CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE.
   (A)   Any person engaging in the business of operating taxicabs in the city
shall first secure a certificate of convenience and necessity from the City
Council and pay the privilege tax for operating such business.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
   (B)   (1)   Any person holding a certificate of necessity who goes out of
the taxicab business and ceases to operate his or her taxicab for a period of
90 days shall immediately lose his or her certificate which shall be
automatically canceled.
      (2)   No holder of a certificate of necessity may transfer or sell such
certificate.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.02 LIABILITY.
   When an application for a certificate under this subchapter is approved, the
applicant shall be required to obtain a policy from an insurance carrier
authorized to do business in this state. The insurance policy shall be
conditioned on such operator’s responding in damages for any liability incurred
on account of any injury to persons or damage to property and shall be in at
least the minimum amounts required by state law. The insurance policy shall be
filed with the City Council as a condition precedent to the operation of any
taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
Statutory reference:
   Financial responsibility of taxicab operators, see G.S. § 20-280
§ 112.03 RATES AND FARES POSTED.
   Every taxicab operated within the city or operated between the city and
points unincorporated within a radius of five miles of the city shall have, at
all times, prominently posted and displayed in the taxicab, so as to be visible
to the passengers therein, the rates and fares for the use of the cab.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 112.04 ANNUAL LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, before operating any taxicab within the city, shall
apply to the Tax Collector for an annual license and shall secure from the Tax
Collector an annual license for the privilege of operating each taxicab. He or
she shall pay for the annual license a tax in the sum required under this code.
   (B)   The license shall be valid from July 1 of each year to June 30 of the
following year.
(Prior Code, § 112.05)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority, see G.S. § 20-97-211
§ 112.05 OPERATOR’S PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Required. No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for
hire from place to place within the city or between city and unincorporated
places within five miles of the city unless that person shall first have
applied to and secured from the City Manager a permit to operate a taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 112.15)
   (B)   Application. The application for a permit to operate a taxicab shall
be made upon blanks furnished by the city for such purpose and shall state the
name, address, physical condition, physical description, former employers,
court record, and state chauffeur’s license number. The application shall be
signed and sworn to by the applicant. The applicant shall further appear at the
Police Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken, the
impression of which shall constitute a part of his or her application. The
applicant shall also furnish a photograph of himself or herself made within 30
days of his or her application. The dimensions of the photograph shall be two
and one-half inches by two and one-half inches or three inches by three inches,
full face, and this photograph shall be a part of his or her application.
(Prior Code, § 112.16)
   (C)   Chief of Police to investigate application. The Chief of Police shall
be charged with the duty of investigating the facts stated in the application
and shall report his or her findings and recommendations to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 112.17)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 OPERATOR’S PERMIT ISSUANCE, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Issuance. The City Manager shall issue a permit to the applicant to
drive a taxicab if he or she finds that the applicant:
      (1)   Has not been convicted of a felony in this state or any other state
within the past five years;
      (2)   Has not been convicted within the past five years of violation of
any federal or state law relating to the use, possession, or sale of alcoholic
beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs or of any law relating to
prostitution;
      (3)   Has no addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or
narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Is a citizen of the United States;
      (5)   Has not been an habitual violator of traffic laws and ordinances
during the five years prior to the application; or
      (6)   Has passed a physical examination by a licensed physician within 30
days of the date of the application.
(Prior Code, § 112.18)
   (B)   Revocation.
      (1)   Upon consideration of the application for a permit under the
section, the Chief of Police shall either approve or reject the application.
      (2)   The Chief of Police may refuse to grant or renew or may revoke or
suspend the taxicab driver’s permit for any applicant or driver who fails or
refuses to comply with the provisions of this section or otherwise ceases to be
qualified.
      (3)   In cases of suspension, revocation, or refusal to grant or renew a
holder’s permit, the holder shall be notified of the reasons for such action,
in writing. A permit to drive a taxicab may be rejected, suspended, or revoked
by the Chief of Police at any time for the following reasons:
         (a)   The holder is convicted of a felony;
         (b)   The holder is convicted of a violation of any federal or state
statute relating to the sale, use, or possession of alcoholic beverages,
narcotics, or other habit forming substance or prostitution;
         (c)   The holder becomes an addict or habitual user of alcoholic
beverages or narcotics or other habit forming substances;
         (d)   The holder is or has been a habitual violator of local or state
traffic laws, ordinances, or criminal laws;
         (e)   The holder does not possess a valid driver’s license issued by
the state;
         (f)   The holder is not physically or mentally capable of operating a
taxicab in a safe manner;
         (g)   The holder has knowingly made a false statement or given false
information on the application for the permit;
         (h)   The holder has accumulated a sufficient number of points against
his or her driving record under the schedule in G.S. Chapter 20 to justify the
suspension or revocation of a driver’s license;
         (i)   The holder must report all charges and convictions to the Police
Department within days as long as the permit is active. Failure to report
charges and convictions may result in a three-year revocation of permit;
         (j)   If the holder is charged with larceny, the Chief of Police may
suspend the permit until the charges are resolved; if the holder is convicted
of larceny, the Chief of Police may revoke the permit for three years; or
         (k)   The holder has been convicted of or has entered a plea of guilty
to any of the following offenses within a period of ten years immediately prior
to the date of application: a crime involving a motor vehicle resulting in
death or driving a motor vehicle while intoxicated.
      (4)   For an occurrence or conviction of any of the offenses set forth in
division (B)(1)(b) through (B)(1)(i) above, the permit shall be revoked for
three years.
      (5)   (a)   The holder of the permit shall be adjudged to be an habitual
violator for three convictions by the holder of violations of traffic laws
within a 12-month period, and the permit shall be revoked for a period of three
years.
         (b)   If the holder is charged with a violation of a local or state
criminal offense and the charge(s) was dismissed, the Chief of Police has the
authority to investigate said charge, and if there was sufficient evidence to
convict, the Chief of Police may consider that charge in determining whether
the holder is a habitual violator. The holder may appeal this decision to the
City Manager if the permit is revoked, suspended, or denied for this reason.
      (6)   For the occurrence of division (B)(1)(k) above, the denial,
suspension, or revocation of the permit shall be permanent.
(Ord. 1-87-2, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for refusal of permit, see G.S. Chapter 20 and § 160A-304
§ 112.07 OPERATOR’S PERMIT POSTED; IDENTIFICATION ATTACHED.
   (A)   Posting. At all times while operating his or her taxicab or a taxicab
belonging to any other person, the driver shall prominently post and display so
as to be visible to the passengers therein his or her permit to drive a
taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 112.20)
   (B)   Identification. Each permit to drive a taxicab shall have attached
thereto the picture and fingerprints of the person to whom the permit is
issued. The photographs and fingerprints shall be so attached to the permit as
to be visible to anyone examining the front of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 112.21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to require posting of permit, see G.S. § 160A-304(a)
§ 112.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   In case of refusal to grant or renew an applicant/holder’s permit or
certificate or upon the suspension or revocation of such permit, the applicant/
holder may appeal to the City Manager. Such appeal must be made, in writing,
within ten days, following receipt of notice of such action, by the Police
Chief and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Whenever a provision of this subchapter states a specific time within
which an appeal must be taken, if the appeal is not taken within the time
prescribed, then the action of the Police Chief is deemed to be final.
   (C)   The action of the Police Chief in suspending, revoking, or refusing to
grant a permit under this subchapter shall be effective upon receipt of notice
by the applicant/holder; provided, if the applicant/holder files a timely
appeal, then any right under this subchapter heretofore existing shall continue
in effect during the pendency of any appeal or 30 days, whichever is sooner.
   (D)   Any hearing may be continued upon 48 hours’ written notice prior to
the date of the hearing; provided, if the new date for the hearing is more than
30 days from the date of the original notice of appeal, then the rights of the
appellant pursuant to division (C) above may only be extended upon a showing of
good cause to the City Manager.
   (E)   (1)   The purpose of the hearing before the City Manager shall be to
determine whether or not the action of the Police Chief in suspending,
revoking, or refusing to grant a permit of the appellant was in the best
interests of the public health, safety, and welfare of the city.
      (2)   The appellant shall be permitted to present any evidence relevant
to the subject matter of the appeal. The hearing shall be administrative in
nature, and the action of the City Manager shall be final.
   (F)   (1)   If the action of the City Manager is to affirm the action of the
Police Chief, then the effective date of the action shall be on the date of the
hearing.
      (2)   Any period of actual suspension as the result of a continuance
prior to the hearing shall be counted toward any period of suspension approved
by the City Manager.
   (G)   Any hearing before the City Manager shall use the following
procedures.
      (1)   The hearing shall be open, unless specifically requested to be
closed by the applicant prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The appellant shall be entitled to make any statements either by an
attorney or someone of his or her own choosing.
      (3)   The appellant shall be entitled to make any statements or present
any witnesses on his or her behalf that he or she desires.
      (4)   The hearing shall be administrative in nature; there shall be a
right to cross-examination.
      (5)   The appellant shall be entitled to transcribe the proceedings at
his or her own cost.
      (6)   The hearing shall be no longer than one hour
(Ord. passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Grounds for refusal of permit, see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.08 for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For the first offense of §
112.06(B)(1), conviction of a felony, the permit shall be revoked for a period
of three years. For a second conviction of a felony, the permit shall be
revoked permanently.
(Ord. 1-87-2, passed 1-27-1987; Ord. passed - -2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 20 and § 160A-304
CHAPTER 113: WRECKER AND TOW SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Policy
   
113.03   Duties and requirements
   
113.04   Heavy duty wreckers
   
113.05   Applicability to previous licenses; noncompliance
   
113.06   General rules and regulations; storage; solicitation
Licenses
   
113.20   Application
   
113.21   Licensing
   
113.22   Mandatory of refusal
   
113.23   Conditions for issuance
   
113.24   Cost and inspections
   
113.25   Insurance
   
113.26   Suspension or revocation of license
   
113.27   Hold harmless
   
113.28   Persons prohibited from holding license
Administration and Enforcement
   
113.40   Wreckers called by police
   
113.41   Fees
   
113.42   Wrecker Inspector
   
113.43   Appeal to City Manager
   
113.44   Hearing
Cross-reference:
   Impoundment of vehicles, see §
70.38
   Nuisance vehicles, see §§
92.35 through
92.42
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The executive head of the Police Department of the city or
anyone designated by him or her.
   HEAVY DUTY WRECKER. A truck chassis having a minimum gross vehicular weight
of 24,000 pounds and a boom assembly having a minimum lifting power of 32,000
pounds, as rated by the manufacturer, and any additional safety equipment, as
specified by the Chief of Police and incorporated by reference as if set forth
herein.
   LICENSEE or APPLICANT. A person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of or offering the services of a vehicle wrecker or towing service
whereby motor vehicles are or may be towed or otherwise removed from one place
to another by the use of a motor vehicle manufactured and designed for the
primary purpose of removing and towing disabled motor vehicles.
   LIGHT DUTY WRECKER. A truck chassis having a minimum gross vehicular weight
of 10,000 pounds and a boom assembly having a minimum lifting power of 3,000
pounds, as rated by the manufacturer and any additional safety equipment, as
specified by the Chief of Police and incorporated by reference as if set forth
herein.
   ROTATION LIST. A list maintained by the Police Department containing the
names of those “wreckers” licensed by the city to respond to requests for the
towing of vehicles made by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.02 POLICY.
   In order to protect persons who operate motor vehicles inside the city, it
is desirable and necessary to adopt this chapter to ensure licensing, storage,
availability, and other controls over persons and firms licensed to provide
wrecker service.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.03 DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The licensee shall provide a light-duty wrecker or heavy-duty wrecker
or both of sufficient size and weight, as defined in §
113.01.
   (B)   All wreckers shall be equipped with warning lights required under
state law.
   (C)   The licensee shall provide continuous 24-hour-a-day service each day
of the year, and there shall be an attendant on duty at the storage lot during
regular business hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.), Monday through Friday, except
for emergencies and wrecker service calls. The daytime calls for the daytime
rate will be for calls received from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday. The nighttime call rate will be for calls received from 5:01 p.m. until
7:59 a.m., Monday through Friday. The night rate will be charged for all calls
received on weekends and holidays.
   (D)   The licensee shall assume all liability and shall indemnify and save
the city harmless from such liability for damages sustained by vehicles while
being towed or stored and for all personal injuries occurring to any of the
firm’s employees or other persons and shall maintain the required insurance
policies.
   (E)   The licensee shall not release any vehicle directly impounded by the
city without authorization by the Police Department.
   (F)   The licensee shall charge for their services such rates as may be
fixed by the City Council.
   (G)   Wrecker services shall perform towing service for the city on a
rotation basis.
   (H)   No licensee shall intercept police calls by short-wave radio for the
purpose of soliciting business.
   (I)   The licensee shall provide:
      (1)   Available space for properly accommodating and protecting a minimum
of 15 disabled motor vehicles to be towed or otherwise removed from the place
where they are disabled. The storage space for vehicles shall be enclosed by a
minimum six-foot chain link fence or a fence of similar strength and shall have
all entrances and exits secure from public access; and
      (2)   A storage vault or storage room on the storage lot or premises
which is adequate to secure and protect personal property, which may be left in
vehicles towed to a private wrecker.
   (J)   The following regulations for wrecker operators shall apply.
      (1)   Operator must have a valid Class “C” operator’s license issued by
the State Department of Motor Vehicles, G.S. § 20-7.
      (2)   Wrecker operators will be responsible for clearing debris from
highway caused by accident and will remove any parts from the highway that are
torn or come off any vehicle as the result of an accident.
      (3)   Wreckers must arrive at scene within 30 minutes upon notification
of a request for wrecker; if not, the next wrecker on rotation will be
dispatched.
      (4)   Wrecker operators or owners of wreckers will not argue or show
disrespect toward any officer or other wrecker operator at the scene of the
accident.
      (5)   Any complaints by wrecker operators or owners will be investigated
by the Wrecker Inspector when they are properly documented and signed.
   (K)   (1)   The name of the wrecker company must be clearly printed on both
sides of the wrecker with day and night telephone numbers. Magnetic signs are
permissible.
      (2)   Wrecker facilities and safety and service equipment will be subject
to inspection by the Wrecker Inspector any time.
      (3)   Only one day and night telephone number will be accepted for
rotation calls.
      (4)   Each wrecker company must have individual storage lots and/or
facilities for inside storage.
      (5)   In emergency circumstances, an officer may bypass the rotation
list.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 20-7
§ 113.04 HEAVY DUTY WRECKERS.
   (A)   (1)   A large rotation list will be maintained for the purpose of
handling large truck wrecks and unusual situations where other wreckers could
not adequately handle the task.
      (2)   Under no circumstances will several wreckers be used to handle a
particular task when one large wrecker could adequately handle the situation.
   (B)   The officer at the scene of accident will request a regular or large
wrecker based on his or her evaluation of the situation.
   (C)   Large rotation wreckers will be governed by the same rules and
regulations as §
113.03, plus:
      (1)   Each large wrecker must be equipped with at least a 600 holmes boom
or equivalent, approved by the Police Department;
      (2)   Each operator must possess a valid Class “A” operator’s license
issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles; and
      (3)   A separate braking system to control towed vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.05 APPLICABILITY TO PREVIOUS LICENSES; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Whenever this chapter is amended from time to time by the City Council and
the amendments shall render any current approved licensee in noncompliance with
the ordinance as amended, the noncomplying licensee shall have a period of one
year from the effective date of the amendment of the ordinance in which to
comply.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.06 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; STORAGE; SOLICITATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, subject to approval by the City Manager, shall
establish and cause the enforcement of reasonable rules and regulations for
licensees as from time to time he or she deems appropriate for the safety,
well-being, and protection of citizens within his or her jurisdiction and their
property.
(Prior Code, § 113.40)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of any licensee to secure, in a
safe manner, any vehicle or personal property contained in the vehicle that is
placed in the custody of the licensee as a result of being called by the Police
Department to perform a tow. The area within which the vehicle and/or personal
property shall be stored shall meet the minimum requirements of §
113.03(I).
      (2)   If, at the time the vehicle was towed, the storage area provided by
the licensee is full, then the property elsewhere as permitted by the Police
Department.
      (3)   In the event that the vehicle or personal property placed in his or
her custody is the subject of a police investigation for evidentiary purposes
and the storage area is full, then the licensee shall immediately contact the
Wrecker Inspector or the desk sergeant on duty and make arrangements to secure
the vehicle and/or personal property in a safe manner.
(Prior Code, § 113.41)
   (C)   No licensee may respond to the scene of an accident or emergency for
the purpose of towing vehicles unless specifically called there by the police
or person involved in the accident or emergency. This section is intended to
prohibit licensees from soliciting business at the scenes of accidents and
emergencies and shall not be construed to prohibit any licensees from
contracting with any person, firm, or corporations, provided the licensee or
his or her agents and employees do not solicit towing contracts at the scene of
accidents or emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 113.42)
Ord. passed 5-9-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
LICENSES
§ 113.20 APPLICATION.
      (A)   Any person desiring to perform towing work at police request shall
submit an application for wrecker service license in duplicate to the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   Application forms shall be obtained from the office of the Chief of
Police. These forms shall state:
      (1)   The name of the applicant/owner and the name of the business, if
different from the name of owner; the home and business address; and telephone
number;
      (2)   The storage lot on which towed vehicles will be stored is located
within the city limits or approved by the Chief of Police and additional
information concerning the size and security features of the lot;
      (3)   The towing equipment available, its size, and capacity;
      (4)   A complete listing of the insurance policies, complying with §
113.21, and the carriers and agents the wrecker applicant would place into
effect upon license approval; and
      (5)   Such other information as the Chief of Police may find reasonably
necessary to determine whether or not the requirements of this chapter will be
complied with and that it is in the best interest of the public health, safety,
and welfare to issue a license to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 113.20) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.21 LICENSING.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receiving an application for wrecker service
license, the Chief of Police shall conduct an investigation to determine if the
applicant has complied with the necessary standards and criteria of this
chapter and that it is in the best interest of the public health, safety, and
welfare that a license shall be issued to the applicant after having complied
with the provisions of §
113.22.
   (B)   (1)   If approved, the applicant’s name shall be placed at the end of
the rotation list. Provided, if an applicant is refused a license by the Chief
of Police, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial to the City
Manager for a determination concerning the issuance of a license to the
applicant.
      (2)   The appeal shall be in accordance with §
113.43(B).
(Prior Code, § 113.21) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.22 MANDATORY OF REFUSAL.
   If an applicant has been convicted, entered a plea of nolo contendere, or
received a prayer continued for judgment within the last three years for a
felony involving moral turpitude or the offense of driving under the influence
of an intoxicating liquor or drug or is an habitual offender of traffic laws,
it is the finding of the City Council that it is not in the best interest of
the public health, safety, or welfare to issue a license under this chapter to
the applicant, and therefore, any such application shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 113.22) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.23 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   When an application is approved, a license will be issued when:
   (A)   (1)   Insurance policies required by this chapter have been procured
and a copy of each given to the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Each policy shall be written by a company licensed to do business
in the state and issued in the name of the licensee; and
   (B)   The requirements of this chapter and all other governing laws and
ordinances have been met. This is to include that each licensee will maintain a
business with a business telephone listing within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 113.23) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.24 COST AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
113.40, all costs incidental to towing and storage shall be paid by the owner
or person in charge or possession of the towed and stored vehicle to the
licensee and a receipt for payment shall be issued to the person. The city
shall assume no liability or responsibility for any vehicle removed from any
place without the authority of the Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   Each licensee shall maintain approved records and claim check
systems to assure release of vehicles to the rightful owner or authorized
person.
      (2)   The records shall be open to the Police Department for
investigation of specific complaints (in writing) and for compiling surveys
under this chapter.
      (3)   Any licensee shall permit any person appointed by the Chief of
Police to inspect his or her wreckers, vault, security room, or storage area at
such reasonable times as the Chief of Police shall deem appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 113.24) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.25 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The following are the minimum insurance requirements to be kept and
maintained by any licensee under this chapter at all times the license is in
effect:
      (1)   Garage liability policy. A garage liability policy covering the
operation of the licensee’s business, equipment, or other vehicles for any
bodily injury or property damage shall be in the minimum of $100,000 for any
one person injured or killed, a minimum of $300,000 for more than one person
killed or injured in any accident, and an additional $50,000 for property
damage; and
      (2)   Garage keeper’s policy. A garage keeper’s legal liability policy
for each storage premises covering fire, theft, windstorm, vandalism, and
explosion in the amount of $30,000 ($10,000 per claim per vehicle).
   (B)   Each policy required under this section must contain an endorsement by
carriers providing ten days’ notice to both the city and the insured in the
event of any change in coverage under the policy.
(Prior Code, § 113.25) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.26 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The following shall be grounds for suspension or revocation of a
license issued under this chapter, that:
         (a)   The license was secured by fraud or by the concealment of a
material fact by the licensee and such fact, if known, would have caused a
refusal to issue a license;
         (b)   The licensee has violated any of the requirements of the
regulations established by the Chief of Police under this chapter;
         (c)   Past services rendered by a licensee are shown to be detrimental
to the public health, safety, and welfare; this includes overcharging of
wrecker fees or false charging of items done by the wrecker business;
         (d)   The licensee paid in the form of a gratuity any third person for
information as to the location of the accident;
         (e)   The licensee has violated the fee schedule by overcharge or
false charges;
         (f)   Failure to operate the wreckers specified in such a manner as to
serve the public adequately and efficiently;
         (g)   Failure to maintain wrecker and vehicle in good repair;
         (h)   Failure to pay the city privilege license fee imposed upon
wreckers; and
         (i)   Failure to report accidents while towing city rotation call
vehicles or to furnish such other records and reports as may be required by
this chapter and/or the Wrecker Inspector.
      (2)   If the Wrecker Inspector determines that any of the violations in
this division (A) have occurred, he or she shall have the authority to revoke
or suspend a license as follows:
         (a)   For violation of division (A)(1)(a): revocation;
         (b)   For a first-time violation of divisions (A)(1)(b) through (A)(1)
(i) above: suspension up to 30 days;
         (c)   For a second violation of divisions (A)(1)(b) through (A)(1)(i)
above within a period of two years from the date of the first suspension:
suspension up to 60 days; and
         (d)   1.   For a third violation of divisions divisions (A)(1)(b)
through (A)(1)(i) above within a period of two years from the date of the first
violation: revocation.
            2.   Any licensee who has his or her license revoked shall be
eligible to apply for a new license one year from the date of the revocation.
            3.   For purposes of this section, the date of suspension or date
of revocation shall be the date of the notification by the Wrecker Inspector
pursuant to division (B) below or, if an appeal is made, the date of the final
action by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 113.26)
   (B)   The revocation or suspension shall be in writing and notify the
licensee of the following: the nature of the violation; the Wrecker Inspector’s
recommendation as to whether the licensee should remain on the rotation wrecker
list, should be suspended, or have his or her license revoked; and the licensee
has a right to an appeal of the action to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 113.27) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.27 HOLD HARMLESS.
   Any licensee shall indemnify, save, and hold harmless the city and its
officers, agents, and employees from any and all claims, actions, defenses,
suits, and proceedings arising out of any negligent act on the part of a
licensee, employee, or part-time employee of the licensee, which said negligent
act is the proximate cause of damage to any vehicle stored in a lot authorized
under the terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.28) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.28 PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM HOLDING LICENSE.
   No City Council member or employee directly involved with the administration
of this chapter shall be permitted to hold a license under the terms of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.29) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.40 WRECKERS CALLED BY POLICE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall ensure that wreckers are called to the
scene of an accident or to impound vehicles on a rotation basis, distributing
the calls from the rotation list. The Chief of Police shall not call or cause
to be called any wrecker not on the rotation list unless all such wreckers are
unavailable or unless the owner of the vehicle to be towed requests that a
specific wrecker be called; any wrecker called by the Police Department not on
the rotation list shall comply with statutory insurance requirements.
   (B)   It is specifically permitted for the Police Department to call a
wrecker out of sequence where, due to an emergency or life threatening
situation, proximity to the wreck and estimated response time make it more
necessary to do so.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.41 FEES.
   The City Council from time to time, upon the recommendation of the Wrecker
Inspector, after having consulted with the licensee, shall establish a table of
maximum fees that they be charged by licensees under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.42 WRECKER INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created.
      (1)   There is created the office of Wrecker Inspector, who shall be
appointed by the Chief of Police with approval of the City Manager.
      (2)   The Wrecker Inspector shall come from the personnel of the Police
Department and shall hold the rank of Sergeant or higher.
   (B)   Duties. The Wrecker Inspector shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The practical administration of the wrecker ordinances and
regulations and the safety and welfare of the public in connection with the
operation and use of rotation wreckers;
      (2)   The inspection of wreckers;
      (3)   Advising the Chief of Police and the City Manager with respect to
matters governed or incidentally involved in the operation of administration of
the wreckers and the rotation wrecker ordinance;
      (4)   Making recommendations for submission to the City Manager and to
the City Council with respect to the adequacy of wrecker service in the city to
serve the public convenience and necessity;
      (5)   Making such studies and recommendations as he or she may deem
advisable looking towards more efficient operation of wreckers and rotation
wreckers to the end that the public safety and welfare will be served and
proper and adequate wrecker service to the general public will be promoted; and
      (6)   All other duties as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.55) (Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.43 APPEAL TO CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   Appeal to City Manager. Whenever any provision of this chapter shall
provide for an appeal of a decision of the Wrecker Inspector to the City
Manager, the following procedure shall be followed.
      (1)   The appellant shall give written notice of appeal to the City Clerk
within ten days of receiving the notice of the action he or she is appealing.
      (2)   The City Manager shall hold a hearing on the appeal within 30 days
of receipt of the written notice of appeal.
      (3)   The written notice of appeal shall state whether or not the
appellant wants an open or closed hearing before the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 113.56)
   (B)   Action pending appeal; lapse of time; waiver.
      (1)   Whenever a provision of this chapter states a specific time within
which an appeal must be taken and regardless of the level of authority from
which the appeal may be taken, if the appeal is not taken within the time
prescribed, then the action of the Wrecker Inspector from which the appeal may
have been taken is deemed to be final.
      (2)   The action of the Wrecker Inspector suspending or revoking any
rights granted under the authority of this chapter shall be effective upon
receipt of notice by the licensee; provided, if the licensee files a timely
appeal, then any right under this chapter heretofore existing shall continue in
effect during the pendency of any appeal(s) or 30 days, whichever is sooner.
      (3)   Any hearing may be continued upon 48 hours’ written notice prior to
the date of the hearing; provided, if the new date for the hearing is more than
30 days from the date of the original notice of appeal, then the rights of the
appellant pursuant to this division (B) may only be extended upon a showing of
good cause.
(Prior Code, § 113.57)
(Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
§ 113.44 HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the hearing before the City Manager shall be to
determine whether or not the action of the Wrecker Inspector in suspending or
revoking the rights and privileges of the appellant was in the best interests
of the public health, safety, and welfare of the city.
      (2)   The appellant shall be permitted to present any evidence relevant
to the subject matter of the appeal. The hearing shall be administrative in
nature, and the action of the City Manager shall be final.
      (3)   If the action of the City Manager is to affirm the action of the
Wrecker Inspector, then the effective date of the action shall be on the date
of the hearing. Any period of actual suspension as the result of a continuance
prior to the hearing shall be counted toward any period of suspension approved
by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 113.58)
   (B)   Any hearing before the City Manager shall use the following
procedures.
      (1)   The hearing shall be open, unless specifically requested by the
appellant prior to the hearing.
      (2)   The appellant shall be entitled to make any statements either by an
attorney or someone of his or her own choosing.
      (3)   Appellant shall be entitled to make any statements or present any
witnesses on his or her behalf that he or she desires.
      (4)   The hearing shall be administrative in nature; there shall be a
right to cross-examination.
      (5)   The appellant shall be entitled to transcribe the proceedings at
his or her own cost.
(Prior Code, § 113.59)
(Ord. passed 5-9-1989)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Inspections
   
114.04   Nonconforming uses
   
114.05   Exemptions
   
114.06   Notices; injunction
Licenses
   
114.20   Application required; classification and fees
   
114.21   Application procedures; approval or disapproval
   
114.22   Licenses displayed
   
114.23   Suspension or revocation
   
114.24   Renewal
   
114.25   Transfer
Regulations
   
114.40   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
114.41   Location restrictions
   
114.42   Exterior of building, signage regulations
   
114.43   Adult motel regulations
   
114.44   Escort agency regulations
   
114.45   Nude model studio regulations
   
114.46   Sexually-explicit films, live performances, and the like regulations
   
114.47   Hours of operation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirement for adult and sexually-oriented establishments located
within corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city. Adult
and sexually-oriented establishments, because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics. Studies
and experiences that are relevant to the state have shown that lower property
values and increased crime rates tend to accompany and are brought about by
adult and sexually-oriented business establishments. The City Council finds
that regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse
secondary effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding
neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions, or conditions detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare and the peace and dignity of the city. Regulation to
achieve these purposes can be accomplished by the procedures set forth
hereinafter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually-oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually-oriented materials protected by the First Amendment or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content-neutral place, time, and
manner regulation of sexually-oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and, at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The Administrative Department duly appointed by the
City Manager for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that receives a majority of its gross
income during any calendar month from the sale of publications (including
books, magazines, and other periodicals) which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section or other periodicals, videotapes, compact discs, other photographic,
electronic, magnetic, digital, or other imaging medium.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that, on a regular, sporadic, or transient basis, features:
persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity or live performances
that are characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities or films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides,
or other photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or
persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are intended for the
sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, topless massage parlor, nude modeling
studios, sexual encounter center, adult live entertainment business, or any
other sexually-oriented business that is similar in nature or intent to any
other adult entertainment business as defined in this section. This term may be
used interchangeably with SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people that exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This shall apply
whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic, or transient
basis.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that offers
accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and provides patrons
with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion picture, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way that
advertises the availability of this adult-type of photographic reproductions or
offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than 24 hours
or allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for a
period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini-motion picture theater, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of an adult
establishment on a full-time, part-time, contract basis, or independent basis,
whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor,
agent, or otherwise and whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises nor does
EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as a patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT. An increase in the floor area of a sexually-oriented business
by more than 10% as the floor area existed on January 9, 2001.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions, or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   ESCORT AGENCY. Any person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration and whose advertisement,
promotions, or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult and
sexually-oriented establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted
for entertainment and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person
as an employee or an independent contractor.
   EROTIC. Any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent, suggestive,
passionate, or similar reference, act, service, or deed.
   EXOTIC CAR WASH. A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing service
performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   EXOTIC MAID SERVICE. A cleaning service for a residence or business where
the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   MASSAGE. The manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, or tapping by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios, or massage parlors.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specific anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other
persons for consideration.
   NUDITY. Includes a state of nudity. The appearance of a human bare buttock,
anus, anal cleft, cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or
vulva with less than fully opaque covering or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SEMI-NUDE.
      (1)   The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line across
the top of the areola at its highest point.
      (2)   This definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human
female breast but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or
other wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principle business purposes, offers for any form of consideration: physical
contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
sex or activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; or
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions, buttocks,
or female breasts.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise that has as one of
its principle business purposes or as a significant portion of its business, an
emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or relating to anatomical
areas and sexual activities, as specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This term may be
used interchangeably with ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-202.10
§ 114.03 INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the police, fire,
zoning, or other city or state departments or agencies acting in their official
capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the business is
complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.04 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the location or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a NONCONFORMING USE, and the nonconforming
requirements of this chapter shall be deemed a NONCONFORMING USE.
   (B)   (1)   The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period
not to exceed two years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of 30 days or more.
      (2)   Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended,
or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   (C)   If two or more sexually-oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of
one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually-oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business(es) is
nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 114.12) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated: by a proprietary school,
licensed by the state, a college, junior college, or university supported
entirely or partly by taxation or by a private college or university that
maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are transferable
to a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.06 NOTICES; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   Notices.
      (1)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Administrative
Official or any other city office, division, department, or other agency under
this chapter to any applicant, operator, or owner of a sexually-oriented
business may be given either by personal delivery or by certified United States
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent
address, as specified in the application for the license, or any notice of
address change that has been received by the Administrative Official. Notices
mailed as above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the United States
mail. In the event that any notice given by mail is returned by the postal
service, the Administrative Official or his or her designee shall cause it to
be posted at the principle entrance to the establishment.
      (2)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Administrative
Official by any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and
unless it is received in the office of the Administrative Official.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Administrative Official
in writing of any change of residence or mailing address.
      (4)   When the Administrative Official of the city determines that a
person is in violation of the provisions as set forth in this chapter, a
written notice of violation shall be issued to the owner of the subject
property. The notice of violation shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the person(s) in violation;
         (b)   The street address and a description of the building structure
or land upon which the violation has occurred;
         (c)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
         (d)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed; and
         (e)   A statement that the city’s determination of violations may be
appealed to the City Board of Adjustment by filing a written notice of appeal
within 30 days of service of such notice of violation.
      (5)   The notice of violation shall be served upon the person(s) to whom
it is directed, either personally or by mailing a copy of the notice of
violation by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested to such
person at his or her last known address.
(Prior Code, § 114.21)
   (B)   Injunction.
      (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business without a valid business license or in violation of this chapter is
subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations.
      (2)   Each day a sexually-oriented business so operates is a separate
offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § 114.22)
Penalty, see §
114.99
LICENSES
§ 114.20 APPLICATION REQUIRED; CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Adult establishment license prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the city unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the city. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the city or such license has expired.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service, or entertainment directly related to the operation of any
unlicensed adult establishment within the city.
      (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall
be prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in which an adult establishment license is not posted, in the
manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that such business was not
licensed.
   (B)   Entertainer license. It shall be unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the city or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
such person’s license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the city or has
expired.
   (C)   License classification and fees.
      (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and established by the City Council. Payment shall
be made by certified or cashier’s check or money order. No application shall be
considered complete until all fees are paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall be issued for a specific location and/or person
and shall be non-refundable and non-transferable.
      (3)   The license fees shall be as set by the City Council and be
recorded in the City Council meeting minutes at which they are set.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 APPLICATION PROCEDURES; APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   Adult establishment license. All persons desiring to secure a license
to conduct, operate, or maintain an adult establishment under the provisions of
this chapter shall make a verified application to the Administrative Official.
All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the city and shall
require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, Social Security Number, driver’s
license number, and a recent photograph of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the adult
entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the owner
of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the business
address, and the Richmond County parcel identification number on which the
business resides;
      (3)   If the person(s) identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land is/are not also the owner(s) of the establishment, then the lease,
purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract, or other
document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed
owners of the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of
the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose of the
operation of an adult establishment;
      (4)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified, and the property lines of
any established religious institution/synagogue, school, library, or public
park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (5)   Any of the criteria required in divisions (A)(2) through (A)(4)
above shall not be required for a renewal if the applicant states, in writing,
that the documents previously furnished to the city with the original
application or previous renewals thereof remain correct and current;
      (6)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, Social
Security numbers, and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a
partnership, and, if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors, and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation;
      (7)   A written statement from the applicant or from partner or from each
corporate officer, director, or 10% shareholder that each such person has not
been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on a felony criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the application or a misdemeanor criminal act within two years
immediately preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor
criminal act involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution,
sexual abuse of a child, pornography, or related offenses as defined in the
laws of the state or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state
or the laws of any other state;
      (8)   A written statement signed under oath that the applicant has
personal knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments;
      (9)   A written statement signed under oath that the applicant(s)
consents to investigation of his or her background by the city, to include
fingerprinting, and that the applicant(s) agrees to furnish within ten days, at
his or her expense, a criminal history from the Clerk of Court of any county in
which the applicant has resided during the five preceding years; and
      (10)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division (A) shall constitute an incomplete application, and it shall not
be processed until complete.
   (B)   Adult entertainer license. All persons desiring to secure a license
under the provisions of this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified
application to the city. All applications shall be made in person to the
Administrative Official. All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied
by the city and shall require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number, date and
place of birth, Social Security Number, and any stage names or nicknames used
in entertaining;
      (2)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the applicant
intends to work as an entertainer;
      (3)   A written statement from the applicant that the applicant has not
been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on a felony criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the application or a misdemeanor criminal act within two years
immediately preceding the application where such felony or misdemeanor criminal
act involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual
abuse of a child, pornography, or related offenses, as defined in the laws of
the state or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the
laws of any other state;
      (4)   The applicant shall present, at the time the application is made,
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years of age. Any
of the following shall be accepted as documentation of age:
         (a)   A motor vehicle operator’s license issued by any state, bearing
the applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
         (b)   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
         (c)   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
         (d)   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
         (e)   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the city; or
         (f)   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the city.
      (5)   A written statement signed under oath that the applicant consents
to investigation of his or her background by the city, to include
fingerprinting, and that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days, at
his or her expense, a criminal history from the Clerk of Court of any county in
which the applicant has resided during the five preceding years; and
      (6)   Failure to provide the information required by this division (B)
shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be processed until
complete.
   (C)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment business license or for an adult entertainer license, the
Administrative Official shall immediately commence investigation of the
application as follows.
      (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the Administrative Official shall transmit a copy of the
application to the Board of Adjustment and the Police Chief.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall review the application in the same
manner set forth in the Unified Development Ordinance for special use permits
no later than 30 working days after the receipt of the application. The Board
shall approve or deny the application in accordance with standards set forth in
the Unified Development Ordinance for approval or denial of special use
permits.
         (b)   The Police Chief shall report to the Administrative Official no
later than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Police
Chief the result of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event
that the Police Chief fails to report to the Administrative Official within
this time period, the Administrative Official shall proceed with processing the
application.
         (c)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report Police Chief and action
by the Board of Adjustment on the special use permit, the Administrative
Official shall determine whether or not a license shall be issued. In no event
shall the time period for determination by the Administrative Official exceed
45 working days from the date the application is received by the Administrative
Official unless consented to by the applicant.
      (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Administrative Official shall transmit a copy of the application to the Police
Chief.
         (a)   The Police Chief shall report to the Administrative Official no
later than 15 working days after receipt of the application by the Police
Chief, the results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event
that the Police Chief fails to report, the Administrative Official shall
proceed with processing the application.
         (b)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license, and upon receipt of the report of the Police Chief (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the Administrative Official shall determine whether or not
a license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination
by the Administrative Official exceed 15 days from the date the application is
received by the Administrative Official, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (D)   Reasons for disapproval. The Administrative Official must deny the
adult business license application for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors, and shareholders, where applicable) has been convicted of a crime in
the local, state, or federal court systems for any violation listed in this
chapter;
      (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors, and shareholders where applicable) has made false or fraudulent
statements in the application, evidence of which is disclosed by a town
background investigation or by any other lawful means;
      (4)   The application for an adult establishment business license does
not meet the requirements of this chapter; and
      (5)   The applicant for an adult establishment has not received a special
use permit from the Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Upon a determination by the Administrative Official of the
disapproval or approval of the application, the Administrative Official shall
notify the applicant by personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address of the applicant as shown on the application. In the
event that the application is disapproved, the notification shall state the
basis for such disapproval.
      (2)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall
have 30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Board of Adjustment of the city.
      (3)   The applicant shall have 30 days from the date a decision is
rendered by the Board of Adjustment of the city to appeal to the Superior Court
of Richmond County.
   (F)   Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the Administrative
Official of any changes to the application within five working days of the date
the change occurs.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.22 LICENSES DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Every person, corporation, or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner on the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for inspection by the city authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.23 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Administrative Official shall conduct a hearing to determine
whether or not a license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing
conducted within ten working days of his or her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for such license or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license or for a use or type other than that for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all
information in the application for such license or renewal thereof;
      (6)   The owner or operator or any partner or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter;
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (8)   The owner or operator of the adult establishment fails to provide
to the Administrative Official a comprehensive written list of all employees to
include any and all entertainers working on the premises on the first working
day of any given month.
   (B)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence, and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the Administrative Official shall take, within five
working days after the hearing, any of the following actions: suspend the
license for up to 90 days; revoke the license; place the license holder on
administrative probation for a period of up to one year, on the condition that
no further violations of this chapter occur during the period of probation; or
take no action.
   (C)   The Administrative Official shall provide written notice of his or her
decision to the applicant by certified mail, return receipt requested. The
notice shall be sent immediately after the Administrative Official determines
what action to take, as described herein.
   (D)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Board of Adjustment of the city within 30 days
of receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation, or probation. The licensee
shall have the right to appeal the decision of the Board of Adjustment of the
city to the Superior Court of Richmond County within 30 days of the date of
decision by the Board is rendered.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
§ 114.24 RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Administrative
Official on application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued
under this chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12-month period from the
date of its issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be
submitted no sooner than 45 days prior to expiration and no later than the city
business day immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   (1)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment
in full of the license fee, the Administrative Official shall issue to the
applicant a receipt showing the date of the renewal application and granting to
the applicant a temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or
until the application for renewal is approved or disapproved.
      (2)   Any license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
renewed by issuance for a new license for an additional 12-month period.
      (3)   All applications for renewal of license shall be processed in the
manner provided for the issuance of the initial license as set forth within
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 TRANSFER.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 114.10) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
REGULATIONS
§ 114.40 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, or entertainer nor any customer
or patron shall appear bottomless or in a state of nudity while on the premises
of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, or entertainer nor any customer
or patron shall perform any specified sexual activities (as defined in this
chapter), wear, or use any device or covering exposed to view which stimulates
any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices, or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer, or
patron of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle, or caress any
specified anatomical area of another person or knowingly permit another person
to touch, fondle, or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers,
whether such specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered, or
exposed while on the premises of the adult establishment.
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24 inches between any
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager, or employee shall mix, dispense, or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (H)   No owner, operator, manager, or employee shall solicit, receive, or
accept nor shall any customer or patron give, offer, or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment, or any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a “free” dance, act, or
service.
   (I)   No owner, operator, manager, or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult establishment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.41 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually-oriented businesses may be permitted as a special use in the
Highway Business (B-3) zoning district, provided that the following conditions
are met.
   (A)   The sexually-oriented business shall not be located or operated within
500 feet of the boundary of any residential district and within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A public library;
      (4)   A publicly owned park or other recreation area or facility;
      (5)   A licensed daycare center;
      (6)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children; and
      (7)   Another sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually-oriented business is conducted to the nearest property line of
the premises of any use listed in division (A) above.
   (C)   No more than one adult or sexually-oriented business establishment
shall be located in the same building or structure or on the same lot. No
person shall permit any building, premises, structure, or other facility that
contains any adult establishment to contain any other kind of adult
establishment. No person shall permit any building, premises, structure, or
other facility in which sexually-oriented devices are sold, distributed,
exhibited, or contained to contain any adult establishment.
   (D)   Adult and sexually-oriented businesses shall be located as a special
use in the Highway Business (B-3) zoning district.
   (E)   All minimum lot requirements and regulations of the B-3 zoning
district shall be met.
   (F)   No person shall permit any viewing booth in an adult mini-motion
picture theater to be occupied by more than one person at any time.
(Prior Code, § 114.11) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.42 EXTERIOR OF BUILDING, SIGNAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Exterior of premises.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually-
oriented business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment
to be visible from a point outside the establishment.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-
oriented business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually-oriented
business to have flashing lights or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-
oriented business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted
any color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply
to a sexually-oriented business if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center;
and
         (b)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting
of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually-oriented business.
      (5)    A violation of any provision of this division (A) shall constitute
a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.17)
   (B)   Signs. The operator of any sexually-oriented business or any other
person associated with such business, shall not erect, construct, or maintain
any sign for the sexually-oriented business other than the one freestanding
sign and one attached wall sign, as provided herein.
      (1)   Freestanding signs shall have no more than two display surfaces.
Each such surface shall:
         (a)   Not contain any flashing lights;
         (b)   Be a flat plan, rectangular in shape;
         (c)   Not exceed 64 square feet in area; and
         (d)   Not exceed 24 feet in height.
      (2)   Freestanding signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations in any manner and may contain only the
name of the enterprise.
      (3)   Attached wall signs shall have only one display surface. Such
display surfaces shall: be a flat plane, rectangular in shape; not exceed four
feet in height and eight feet in width; and be directly affixed or attached to
any wall or door of the enterprise.
      (4)   Setback, height, and any other provisions of the city code or
Unified Development Ordinance that is not in conflict with this section shall
apply.
(Prior Code, § 114.18)
(Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.43 ADULT MOTEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttal presumption that the enterprise
is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise, that does not have a
sexually-oriented business license, rents, or sub-rents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT
means the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 114.13) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.44 ESCORT AGENCY REGULATIONS.
   An escort agency shall not employee any person under the age of 21 years. A
person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees to act as
an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 114.14) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.45 NUDE MODEL STUDIO REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of
a nude model studio premises that can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.46 SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT FILMS, LIVE PERFORMANCES, AND THE LIKE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Administrative Official may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Administrative Official.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the
entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms.
         (b)   Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designed, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations.
         (c)   The view required in this division (A)(5) must be by direct line
of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times and
to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that
has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room shall be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five-foot candles, as measured at
the floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall be
duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained, at all times, that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths and rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the wall between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all
floor covering in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of or
permanently covered by nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board, or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under division (A) above is in violation of
this chapter if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.47 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually-oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays
and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine up to $500 per violation or imprisonment, as provided for a Class 3
misdemeanor in the state statutes or both. A violation of this chapter shall
also subject the violator to a civil penalty of $500 per separate violation.
Each separate act in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
violation. Each day that such separate violation shall constitute or be carried
on shall constitute an additional separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 114.99) (Ord. passed 2-9-2001)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, DECENCY, AND MORALS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, DECENCY, AND MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Paid admissions
   
130.02   Minors in certain pool halls
   
130.03   Public intoxication, noisiness in businesses
   
130.04   Disorderly conduct
   
130.05   Disturbing assemblies, public meetings
   
130.06   Hitchhiking
   
130.07   Unauthorized police whistles and fire signals
   
130.08   Discharging firearms
Prostitution-Exclusion Zone
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Boundaries
   
130.22   Zone designation
   
130.23   Civil exclusions
   
130.24   Notice issuance; procedure
   
130.25   Appeals and variances
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 PAID ADMISSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to attempt to see any show or public entertainment for
which a fee is charged without paying admission.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 MINORS IN CERTAIN POOL HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to be allowed to
enter or loiter in a poolroom where pool, billiard, or bagatelle tables or
similar games are kept for rent, hire, or compensation and where beer or other
alcoholic beverages are sold, consumed, or permitted upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Permitting minors to enter barrooms or billiard rooms, see G.S. § 14-317
§ 130.03 PUBLIC INTOXICATION, NOISINESS IN BUSINESSES.
   No person engaged in any kind of business shall allow any drunken or noisy
person in his or her place of business.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of disorderly conduct if he or she:
      (1)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby any
person is placed in fear of safety for his or her life, limb, or health;
      (2)   Acts in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another, whereby
public property or property of any other person is placed in danger of being
destroyed or damaged;
      (3)   Endangers lawful pursuits of another by acts of violence, angry
threats, and abusive conduct;
      (4)   Causes, provokes, or engages in any fight, brawl, or riotous
conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of another or
public property;
      (5)   Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of
causing, provoking, or engaging in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Jostles or roughly crowds or pushes any person in any public place;
      (7)   Collects in bodies or in crowds for unlawful purposes;
      (8)   Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of
or with the intent to engage in gaming;
      (9)   Frequents any public place with intent to obtain money from another
by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice, or device;
      (10)   Assembles with another or others for the purpose of engaging in
any fraudulent scheme, device, or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any
place or from any person in the city or aids or abets therein;
      (11)   Utters while in a state of anger, in the presence of another, any
lewd or obscene words or epithets;
      (12)   Frequents any place where gaming or the illegal sale or possession
of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is practiced, allowed,
or tolerated;
      (13)   Acts in a dangerous manner toward others;
      (14)   Uses “fighting words” directed towards any person who becomes
outraged and thus creates turmoil;
      (15)   Assembles or congregates with another or others for the purpose of
doing bodily harm to another;
      (16)   By acts of violence, interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful
occupation;
      (17)   Congregates with another or others in or on any public way so as
to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such
public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other person having
authority;
      (18)   Makes any unreasonably loud and unnecessary noise;
      (19)   Damages, befouls, or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive
condition;
      (20)   Consumes alcoholic beverages on any public street, sidewalk, or
any other public property within the corporate limits of the city. Possession
of open containers of alcoholic beverages or containers with the seal broken
shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
      (21)   Consumes alcoholic beverages in a vehicle or not on any public or
private parking lot within the corporate limits of the city, except those
maintained at establishments holding a valid on-premises license for the retail
sale of beer or wine. Possession of open containers of alcoholic beverages or
containers with the seal broken shall be prima facie evidence of consumption.
   (B)   Any person convicted of disorderly conduct, as defined in this
section, shall be punished.
(Prior Code, § 130.15) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see G.S. § 14-288.4
§ 130.05 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES, PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(Prior Code, § 130.16) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 HITCHHIKING.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride from
the driver of any private vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 130.17) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 UNAUTHORIZED POLICE WHISTLES AND FIRE SIGNALS.
   No person without special authority from the Police Department or Fire
Department shall carry or use any whistle, bell, horn, or siren similar in
appearance or sound to the whistles, horns, or sirens used by the Police or
Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 130.18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge an air rifle, air
pistol, air gun, slingshot, or any like instrument used to eject a pellet or
projectile or to discharge a pistol, rifle, shotgun, or other gun within the
corporate limits, except a police officer in the performance of his or her
duty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a child or any person who
stands in the relationship of parent to a child to knowingly permit the child
to discharge an air rifle, air pistol, air gun, slingshot, or any like
instrument used to eject a pellet or projectile within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 130.70) Penalty, see §
130.99
PROSTITUTION-EXCLUSION ZONE
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEALS OFFICIAL. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   ARREST. To place a person under actual or constructive restraint or to take
person into custody for the purpose of charging that person with an offense.
   CONVICTION. An adjudication of guilt following a trial or plea of guilty or
no contest in a criminal case.
   ESSENTIAL NEEDS. Food, physical care, and medical attention.
   PROSTITUTION-EXCLUSION ZONE. An area of the city as designated by City
Council under this subchapter, which is an area where the number of arrests for
any of the offenses enumerated in this subchapter for the preceding 12-month
period is significantly higher than that for other similarly sized geographic
areas of the city that are not located with a prostitute-exclusion zone.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on a public roadway, highway, street, bicycle lane,
or sidewalk and associated adjacent land in which the city had a property
interest, whether by easement or fee, regardless of how acquired or
established, for public travel purposes.
   TRAVEL. The movement on foot or within a vehicle within a prostitute-
exclusion zone from one point to another without delay other than to obey
traffic control devices.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
§ 130.21 BOUNDARIES.
   The following description shall comprise the boundaries of the prostitution-
exclusion zones listed, and the prostitution-exclusion zones shall include the
entire area on and within the listed boundaries, as illustrated on the map
maintained on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
§ 130.22 ZONE DESIGNATION.
   (A)   If the City Council designates an area as a prostitution-exclusion
zone, Council shall do so by ordinance. The designation shall be valid for a
period of three years, unless earlier terminated by ordinance.
   (B)   The Chief of Police of the City Police Department is directed to
report to the City Council at least annually as to whether there is a need to
reauthorize or reconfigure the prostitution-exclusion zone.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
§ 130.23 CIVIL EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   A person is subject to exclusion for a period of 90 days from any
public right-of-way within a prostitution-exclusion zone if that person has
been arrested and a Magistrate has issued a Magistrate’s order, pursuant to
G.S. § 15A-511(c), based upon probable cause to believe that the person had
committed to any of the following offenses within the prostitute-exclusion
zone, unless the offense was committed entirely within a private residence:
      (1)   Maintain or operate a conveyance for the purpose of prostitution or
assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204(1);
      (2)   Occupy a conveyance or permit a conveyance to be used for the
purpose of prostitution or assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204(3);
      (3)   Receive, offer, or agree to receive any person into a conveyance
for the purpose of prostitution or assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204
(3);
      (4)   Direct, take, or transport or offer or agree to take or transport
any person to any place, structure, or building or to any other person, with
knowledge or reasonable cause to know that the purpose of such directing,
taking, or transporting is prostitution or assignation in violation of G.S. §
14-204(4);
      (5)   Procure or solicit or offer to procure or solicit for the purpose
of prostitution or assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204(5);
      (6)   Enter or remain in any conveyance for the purpose of prostitution
or assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204(6);
      (7)   Engage in prostitution or assignation or aid or abet prostitution
or assignation in violation of G.S. § 14-204(7);
      (8)   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in prostitution or crime
against nature;
      (9)   Crime against nature in violation of G.S. § 14-177; or
      (10)   Soliciting crime against nature in violation of G.S. § 14-177 and
the common law of the state.
   (B)   The aforesaid 90-day exclusion will cease immediately if the person
arrested or otherwise taken into custody for offenses listed above is
subsequently acquitted of the charge(s) or said charge(s) is/are dismissed.
   (C)   A one-year exclusion from any public right-of-way within a
prostitution-exclusion zone shall take effective upon the date of conviction
for any of the offenses enumerated in division (A) above if that offense was
committed within the prostitution- exclusion zone. The face that a conviction
is being appealed shall not stay the exclusion.
   (D)   A one-year exclusion from any public right-of-way within a
prostitution-exclusion zone shall be a condition of deferred prosecution for
any person entering the Deferred Prosecution Program of the Division of
Community Corrections for any committed within that prostitution-exclusion
zone. There shall be no right of appeal from the issuance of such an exclusion.
   (E)   Except as allowed under §
130.25(C), a person excluded from a prostitution-exclusion zone, under any
authority of this section, may not enter that prosecution-exclusion zone except
to:
      (1)   Attend a meeting with an attorney;
      (2)   Attend a scheduled initial interview with a social services
provider;
      (3)   Comply with court- or corrections-ordered obligation;
      (4)   Contact criminal justice personnel at a criminal facility;
      (5)   Attend any administrative or judicial hearing relating to an appeal
of:
         (a)   The person’s notice of exclusion; or
         (b)   The denial, revocation, or amendment of the person’s variance.
      (6)   Travel through a prostitution-exclusion zone on a public
transportation vehicle.
   (F)   While in a prostitute-exclusion zone, a person who is otherwise
excluded may travel only directly to and from the obligations enumerated in
division (E) above.
   (G)   If an excluded person is in the prostitution-exclusion zone from which
that person is excluded, in violation of the exclusion during the exclusion
period, that person is subject to arrest for second-degree trespass pursuant to
G.S. § 14-159.13.
(Ord. passed - -2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 14-159.13, 14-177, 14-204(1), 14-204(3)
through 14-204(7), 14-204.1, and 15A-511(c)
§ 130.24 NOTICE ISSUANCE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Issuance of exclusion notices. The Chief of Police and his or her
designees are the persons in charge of the public rights-of-way in the
prostitution-exclusion zones for purposes of issuing notices of exclusion in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   If a person is arrested and a Magistrate has issued a Magistrate’s
order, pursuant to G.S. § 15A-511(c), based upon probable cause to believe that
the person has committed any of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A) within a prostitution-exclusion zone.
      (2)   Every person excluded shall be provided with a notice of exclusion
and variances.
      (3)   At the time a person is issued a notice of exclusion from a
prostitution-exclusion zone, the Chief of Police or designee shall issue those
variances described in §
130.25(C)(2) through (C)(6), and may do a preliminary review with the excluded
person of the need for an additional variance and may issue a general variance
pursuant to the process described in §
130.25(C).
      (3)   The notice of exclusion shall be in writing and copy delivered to
the excluded person. The notice of exclusion shall specify the following:
         (a)   The area designated as a prostitution-exclusion zone in §
130.21 which that person is excluded; and
         (b)   Information concerning the right to appeal the exclusion to the
appeals official.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 15A-511(c)
§ 130.25 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Appeal; denial or revocation of variaces. A person to whom a notice of
exclusion is issued, whose request for a variance or an amendment to a variance
is denied or whose variance is revoked, shall have right to appeal as follows.
      (1)   Appeals shall be made to appeals official. Copies of documents in
the city’s control which are intended to be used at the hearing shall be made
available on request, to the appellant.
      (2)   An appeal of a 90-day notice of exclusion must be filed, in
writing, within five calendar days following delivery of the notice of
exclusion.
      (3)   An appeal of a one-year, conviction-based exclusion must be filed,
in writing, within five calendars days following the date of conviction.
      (4)   An appeal of:
         (a)   A denial of a request for a variance;
         (b)   A denial of a request for an amendment to a variance; or
         (c)   A revocation of a variance must be filed, in writing, within
five calendar days following the action regarding the variance.
      (5)   Within five business days after receipt of the appeal or such
longer period of time as agreed to by the appellant, the appeals officer shall
hold a quasi-judicial hearing on an appeal and shall render a decision on the
appeal at the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of the appeals official
shall be based solely on the criteria set forth in this section.
      (6)   A 90-day exclusion shall not take effect during the time that an
appeal of the 90-day exclusion is pending. If no appeal is taken, the initial
90-day exclusion shall take effect at 12:01 a.m. on the sixth calendar day
following the issuance of the notice of exclusion.
      (7)   A one-year, conviction-based exclusion shall take effect at 12:01
a.m. on the calendar day following the date of conviction and, notwithstanding
an appeal of the exclusion, shall remain in effect unless the appeals official
issues a contrary decision.
      (8)   At the hearing on an appeal of a 90-day exclusion, the city shall
have the burden to show, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the apellant
committed any of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A) and that the conduct supporting the exclusion occurred within a
prostitution-exclusion zone.
      (9)   At the hearing on the appeal of a one-year, conviction-based
exclusion, the city shall have the burden to show by a preponderance of the
evidence that the appellant committed any of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A) and that the conduct supporting the exclusion occurred within a
prostitution-exclusion zone.
      (10)   At the hearing on an appeal of a denial of a request for a
variance provided in this section, the city shall have the burden to show, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the denial was in accordance with this
section.
      (11)   At the hearing on an appeal of a denial of a request for an
amendment to a variance provided in this section, the city shall have the
burden to show preponderance of the evidence that the denial was in accordance
with this section.
      (12)   At the hearing on an appeal of a revocation of a variance provided
in this section, the city shall have the burden to show a preponderance of the
evidence that any of the conditions enumerated in this section supporting
revocation existed at the time of revocation.
      (13)   At the hearing on an appeal of a 90-day exclusion, the following
shall be prima facie evidence was based on probable cause to believe that the
appellant committed any of the offenses enumerated in this section.
         (a)   A determination by a judicial official having jurisdiction over
the offense that forms that basis for the exclusion that probable cause existed
to arrest the person to whom the initial 90-day notice of exclusion was issued
for violation of any of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A); or
         (b)   Criminal process charging the person to whom a 90-day notice of
exclusion was issued or violation of any of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A).
      (14)   At the hearing on an appeal of a one-year, conviction-based
exclusion, a judgment of conviction for any of the offenses that formed a basis
for the exclusion, as enumerated, that the described conduct occurred.
   (B)   Review of decision of appeals official. The decision of the appeals
official is subject to review in the County Superior Court by proceedings in
the nature of certiorari. Any petition for writ of certiorari for review shall
be filed with the Clerk of Superior Court of the County within 30 days after
the appellant has received notice of the decision of the appeals official.
Unless good cause exists to contest a petition for writ of certiorari, the city
shall stipulate to certiorari no later than five business days after the
petitioner requests such a stipulation. The city shall transmit the record to
the court no later than five business days after receiving the order allowing
certiorari. Notwithstanding the provisions of any local rule reviewing court
that allows for a longer time period, the city shall file its briefs within 15
days after it is served with the petitioner’s brief. If the petitioner serves
his or her brief by mail, the city shall add three days to this time limit in
accordance with G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 5. If local rule is subsequently amended to
provide for a shorter time period for the filing of any brief, then the shorter
time period shall control. The State Rules of Appellant Procedure shall govern
an appeal by an appellant from the County Superior Court.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Granted; denied; amended. Variances shall be granted, denied,
amended, or revoked in accordance with the following provisions.
         (a)   All the variances shall be in writing, for a specific time
period and only to accommodate a specific purpose, all of which shall be stated
on the variance. The purpose of the variance to allow only travel to and from
locations within a prostitution-exclusion zone according to the terms of the
variance. The variance must be carried on the person while in a prostitute-
exclusion zone in order to be effective and must be presented to a city police
or other law enforcement officer with jurisdiction upon request.
         (b)   An excluded person shall make a request for a variance during
regular business hours at the City Police Department.
      (2)   General variance. The Chief of Police or designee may, for just
cause shown, grant an excluded person a variance from an exclusion at any time
during and exclusion period. Except as described in §
130.24(B)(2), an appropriate variance shall be granted to an excluded person
who presents a plausible need to engage in any non-criminal activity that is
not associated with the behavior supporting the person’s exclusion. A variance
granted under this division (C)(2) allows travel within the prostitution-
exclusion zone only in accordance with the terms specified in the variance.
      (3)   Residential variance. The Chief of Police or designee shall grant a
residential variance to an excluded person. A residential variance allows
travel within the prostitution-exclusion zone in accordance with the terms of
the variance.
      (4)   Essential needs variance. The Chief of Police or designee shall
grant a essential needs variance to an excluded person. An essential needs
variance allows travel within the prostitution-exclusion zone in accordance
with the terms of the variance:
         (a)   To access a public or private place within the prostitution-
exclusion zone that provides an essential need; and
         (b)   When the essential need sought by the excluded person cannot be
reasonably accessed by the excluded person without entering the prostitution-
exclusion zone.
      (5)   Employment variance. The Chief of Police or designee shall grant an
employment variance to an excluded person. An employment variance allows an
excluded person to travel to, from, or for work within the prostitution-
exclusion zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the excluded
person:
         (a)   Is owner, principal, agent, or employee of a place of lawful
employment located in the prostitution-exclusion zone; and
         (b)   Is required to perform employment-related services in the
prostitution- exclusion zone.
      (6)   Social services variance. The Chief of Police or designee shall
grant a social services variance to an excluded person. A social services
variance allows travel within the prostitution-exclusion zone in accordance
with the terms of the variance if the excluded person:
         (a)   Is in need of social services in the prostitution-exclusion
zone;
         (b)   The social services are sought for reasons relating to the
health or well-being of the excluded person; and
         (c)   The social services agency has written rules and regulations
prohibiting the unlawful use and sale of controlled substances by their
clients.
      (7)   Educational variances.
         (a)   The Chief of Police or designee shall grant an educational
variance to an excluded person. An educational variance allows travel within
the prostitution-exclusion zone in accordance with the terms of variance:
            1.   To enroll as a student at an educational facility located
within the prostitution-exclusion zone; or
            2.   To attend school at an educational variance to an excluded
person to allow travel within the prostitution-exclusion zone.
         (b)   The Chief of Police or designee may grant an educational
variance to an excluded person to allow travel within the prostitution-
exclusion zone in accordance with the terms of the variance if the excluded
person will be enrolled at an educational facility within the prostitution-
exclusion zone if the variance is granted.
   (D)   Revocation or amendment of variances. Variances may be revoked or
amended in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Conditions. A variance may be revoked or amended for the following
reasons:
         (a)   The excluded person provided false information in order to
obtain the variance;
         (b)   There is probable cause to believe the person has committed any
of the offenses enumerated in §
130.23(A) in the prostitution-exclusion zone, subsequent to the issuance of the
variance;
         (c)   If the circumstances giving rise to the issuance of the variance
no longer supports continuation of the variance or a term thereof; or
         (d)   If the person had new circumstances that would support amending
the variance.
      (2)   Residential variance exception. A residential variance may be
revoked only:
      (a)   If the applicant provided false residential information in order to
obtain the variance; or
         (b)   If the circumstances giving rise to the issuance of variance no
longer is to support the continuation of the variance.
   (E)   Compliance. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any term of
any variance issued pursuant to this section. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to carry a variance on his or her person or to present a
variance to a City Police officer or other law enforcement officer with
jurisdiction upon request while that person is in a prostitution-exclusion
zone.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 1A-1
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violated any provision of §§
130.20 through
130.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Injuring property, private and public
   
131.02   Obscene, sexually-explicit materials displayed
   
131.03   Playing in streets, throwing stones, and the like
   
131.04   Spitting
   
131.05   Jumping on or off trains
   
131.06   Blocking street crossings
   
131.07   Fishing at city lake
   
131.08   Posting signs
§ 131.01 INJURING PROPERTY, PRIVATE AND PUBLIC.
   (A)   Injuring private property. It shall be unlawful to injure any property
belonging to another.
(Prior Code, § 130.35)
   (B)   Injuring public property. It shall be unlawful to injure, damage,
deface, trespass upon, break, or injure any property belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.36)
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Injury to real property, see G.S. § 14-127
§ 131.02 OBSCENE, SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MATERIALS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Obscene pictures. No person shall display on any street or alley or in
any store, shop, or public place in the city any vulgar or obscene pictures,
marks, words, or representation of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 130.37)
   (B)   Public display of sexually-explicit materials.
      (1)   Declaration of policy and findings. The City Council does find that
there exists an increasing trend in the display of sexually-explicit material
in commercial establishments in such a manner that the material is within the
open view of minors and is thereby easily accessible to them. The City Council
further finds that the public display of such material is adverse and
detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, particularly
minors, and the peace and dignity of the city and, as a matter of policy, such
display should be regulated under the police power of this city.
      (2)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
          KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the character and content of the cover
of the material or failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would
disclose the character and content of the cover of the material.
         MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
         PUBLIC DISPLAY. The placing, exposing, or exhibiting of sexually-
explicit material in or on a newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar place so that the material is easily visible from a public
thoroughfare, sidewalk, or from that portion of the interior of any business or
commercial establishment frequented by minors or where minors are or may be
invited as part of the general public.
         SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, or newspaper which
contains on the cover any photograph, picture, drawing, depiction, or other
visual representation depicting human sexual intercourse, masturbation,
homosexual acts, direct physical stimulation or touching of unclothed genitals
or pubic areas of the human male or female, flagellation or torture by or upon
a person who is nude or clad in revealing or bizarre costumes, uncovered or
less than opaquely covered post-pubertal human genitals, or pubic areas or the
exposure of the female breast or breasts below the top of the nipple, except
those of infants.
      (3)   Prohibited acts.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly place on public
display sexually-explicit material in any business establishment frequented by
minors or where minors are or may be invited as a part of the general public.
         (b)   However, such sexually-explicit material may be displayed on any
shelf, rack, stand, or ledge which has an opaque screen or border of sufficient
height so that only the title of any such material is visible and shall be
bound by tape, plastic, or other method of sealing to prevent a minor from
viewing the contents.
      (4)   Unlawful sales. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation, salesclerk, or other legal entity to sell to a minor such material
as is covered under this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.38)
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Obscene literature and exhibitions, see G.S. § 14-190.1
§ 131.03 PLAYING IN STREETS, THROWING STONES, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play games in streets or to throw
stones, shoot, or otherwise project any missile, whether by hand, sling, or
elastic gun, in any street, alley, or any other place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.39) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful to spit on any paved sidewalk or platform connected
with any railroad or bus passenger station or upon the floor or wall of any
public building, church, theater, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 130.40) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 JUMPING ON OR OFF TRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to jump on or off a train in the city
while the train is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 130.41) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 BLOCKING STREET CROSSINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the agent or employee of any railroad to block the
crossing of any street in the city for a period in excess of ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 130.42) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 FISHING AT CITY LAKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any form of fishing at or
on the impoundment known as the City Lake.
(Prior Code, § 130.43) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 POSTING SIGNS.
   (A)   On private property. No advertisement or pictures shall be posted on
private property within the city without the consent of the owner of the
property.
(Prior Code, § 130.55)
   (B)   On trees and poles. No person shall tack or nail any sign or poster on
any shade tree or electric or telephone pole.
(Prior Code, § 130.56)
   (C)   Signs prohibiting concealed weapons.
      (1)   Posting of signs required. The City Manager is authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the city, as well as the
appurtenant premises to such buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
      (2)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on
the exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the
building. The City Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number
and appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant
premises and parks.
(Prior Code, § 130.57)
(Ord. passed 12-1-1995) Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Posting commercial signs, see G.S. § 14-145
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
131.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of violating §
131.02 shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99. In addition to the criminal penalties herein provided, violations of §
131.02 may be enforced by the institution of proceedings in the form of a civil
action for equitable and injunctive relief to restrain or prohibit the
violation. The proceeding shall be brought in the Superior Court of the County.
The institution of any proceeding for equitable or injunctive relief under this
penalty provision shall not relieve any party to such proceedings for any
criminal penalty prescribed for violations of any part of §
131.02.
(Prior Code, § 130.38)
   (C)   Punishment for violations of §
131.07 shall be by fine or imprisonment as for misdemeanors, and each violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.43)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Applicability
   
150.02   Fire district established
   
150.03   Constructing on fire district
   
150.04   Codes adopted
   
150.05   Code amendments; copied filed
   
150.06   Property numbering and street names
Administration
   
150.20   Periodic inspections
   
150.21   Building defects
   
150.22   Failure to comply
   
150.23   Building permits
   
150.24   Building permit moratorium
   
150.25   Plan of construction; contract copy
   
150.26   Permit time limit
   
150.27   Permit fees
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.40   Duty of owner; failure to comply
   
150.41   Notice and hearing
   
150.42   Corrective action
   
150.43   Appeals; order final
   
150.44   Noncompliance report
   
150.45   Hearing of appeals; assessment of costs
   
150.46   Notice of appeal hearing
   
150.47   Presumption of danger
   
150.48   Failure of refusal to comply
   
150.49   Provisions are supplemental
Abandoned Structures
   
150.60   Finding; intent
   
150.61   Building Inspector duties, powers
   
150.62   Enforcement standards
   
150.63   Enforcement procedure
   
150.64   Service of complaints and orders
   
150.65   In rem action; placarding
   
150.66   Costs of lien
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted in
this chapter shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected or attached to such building or structure;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains,
waste and vent systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and
appurtenances thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, and refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment, and
appurtenances thereof; and
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use, and
maintenance of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
   (B)   The adoption of this chapter and the codes adopted by reference in
this chapter shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. § 143-138
(e), making the regulatory codes herein adopted applicable to dwellings and
outbuildings used in connection therewith and to apartment buildings used
exclusively as the residence of not more than two families.
(Prior Code, § 150.001)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 143-138(e)
§ 150.02 FIRE DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   The principal fire district of the city shall be as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection on North Randolph Street and Green Street in a
westerly direction to the corner of North Lee Street and Green Street; thence
north along Lee Street to the intersection of Highway 220 and North Lee Street;
thence in a southwesterly direction along Highway 220 to a point 400 feet past
the intersection of Broad Avenue and Highway 220; thence in a southeasterly
direction parallel with Broad Avenue to a point 400 feet south of Broad Avenue
and 200 feet west of South Hancock Street; thence south running parallel with
South Hancock Street to the intersection of South Hancock Street and northbound
lane of U.S. Highway 220; thence in a southeast direction to a point 200 feet
southeast of South Hancock Street; thence in a northerly direction to a point
within 400 feet south of Broad Avenue; thence in a southeast direction parallel
with Broad Avenue to a point on Pickett Street 400 feet from Broad Avenue;
thence northeasterly to a point 200 feet from Broad Avenue on Pickett Street;
thence running parallel with Broad Avenue to a point 200 feet from Broad Avenue
near Thomas Street, being 1,250 feet from Pickett Street; thence northeasterly
to Broad Avenue; thence southeast to the intersection of Broad Avenue and
Thomas Street; thence, south to a point on Thomas Street, 100 feet from Broad
Avenue; thence southeasterly to a point 300 feet from Thomas Street and 100
feet from Broad Avenue; thence south 100 feet to a point 300 feet from Thomas
Street; thence parallel with Broad Avenue to a point 275 feet from Broad Avenue
on Long Drive; thence south along Long Drive to a point 700 feet from Broad
Avenue; thence southeasterly parallel with Broad Avenue to a point 220 feet
from Biltmore Drive and 700 feet from Broad Avenue; thence northeasterly to a
point 250 feet from Broad Avenue and 220 feet from Biltmore Drive; thence
southeasterly to a branch (name unknown) approximately 600 feet from Biltmore
Drive; thence south along Branch (name unknown) 900 feet from Broad Avenue;
thence southeast direction 750 feet to Lady Mary Lane, approximately to a point
900 feet from Broad Avenue; thence northeasterly direction to a point on Lady
Mary Lane 500 feet from Broad Avenue; thence southeasterly 200 feet to a point
500 feet from Broad Avenue; thence northeast to the centerline of Broad Avenue;
thence in a northwesterly direction to the end of Avalon Drive; thence
northerly to a point 100 feet east of Richmond Memorial Drive and Aldrin Drive;
thence northerly to the end of Mallard Lane; thence northwest to a point on the
north prong of Falling Creek 400 feet east of Long Drive; thence west along
Falling Creek to a point 400 feet west of Long Drive; thence in a southerly
direction parallel with Long Drive to a point on Rockingham Road, 400 feet from
Long Drive; thence southeast along Rockingham to a point 150 feet southeast of
the intersection of Rockingham Road and Long Drive; thence south parallel to
Long Drive to a point 520 feet from Rockingham Road and 150 feet from Long
Drive; thence easterly direction to a point 100 feet south of the intersection
of Laurel Avenue and Long Drive; thence northeast 100 feet to the intersection
of Laurel Avenue and Long Drive; thence northwest to the intersection of Laurel
Avenue and Wild Cherry Avenue; thence south and west along Wild Cherry Avenue
to the intersection of Walnut Lane; thence south to Broad Avenue on Walnut
Lane; thence west along Broad Avenue to a point 150 feet northwest of John
Street; thence north parallel to John Street to a point 400 feet from Broad
Avenue and 150 feet from John Street; thence northwest running parallel with
Broad Avenue to a point 150 feet from Pickett Street; thence southwest to a
point 200 feet from Broad Avenue and 150 feet from Pickett Street; thence
northwest in a straight line to a point 300 feet east of the intersection of
Leak and Lawrence Street on Leak Street; thence in a northerly direction to a
point 250 feet from the intersection of South Randolph Street and East Franklin
Street on Franklin Street; thence east to the intersection of South Randolph
Street and East Franklin Street; thence north along Randolph Street to the
beginning point at Green Street and Randolph Street.
(Prior Code, § 150.002)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to establish fire limits, see G.S. § 160D-1128
§ 150.03 CONSTRUCTING ON FIRE DISTRICT.
   Within the fire limits of the city, as established and defined by §
150.02, no frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall
hereafter be erected, altered, repaired, or moved, either into the limits or
from one place to another within the limits, except upon a permit from the
Building Inspector, approved by the Commissioner of Insurance.
(Prior Code, § 150.003) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § i60D-1128
§ 150.04 CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Building Code adopted. The most current edition of the State Building
Code, Volume I, General Construction, as adopted by the State Building Code
Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the Building Code of the city to the extent such code is applicable
for safe and stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards, and use
of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered,
repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.015)
   (B)   Plumbing Code adopted. The most current edition of the State Plumbing
Code (State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted and published by the
State Building Code Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as
though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the city to the extent such
code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of installing, minimum
standards, and use of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected,
enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.016)
   (C)   Heating Code adopted. The most current edition of the State Heating,
Air Conditioning, Refrigeration, and Ventilation Code (State Building Code,
Volume III, Heating) as adopted and published by the State Building Code
Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the Heating Code for the city to the extent the codes are applicable
for safe and stable design, methods of installing, minimum standards, and use
of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, repaired,
or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.017)
   (D)   Electrical Code adopted. The most current edition of the State
Electrical Code (State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), adopting, by
reference, the most current edition of the National Electrical Code of the
National Fire Protection Association, as adopted by the State Building Code
Council and as amended, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein as the Electrical Code for the city to the extent such code is
applicable for safe and stable design, methods of installing, minimum
standards, and use of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected,
enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.018)
   (E)   Uniform Residential Building Code adopted. The most current edition of
the State Uniform Residential Building Code, as adopted by the State Building
Inspectors Association and as published by the State Building Code Council, is
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Residential
Building Code for one- and two-family residential buildings in the city to the
extent such code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of
construction, minimum standards, and use of materials in buildings or
structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise
constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.019)
   (F)   Housing Code adopted. The State Model Housing Code, most current
edition, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the
Housing Code of the city to the extent such code is applicable for safe and
stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards, and use of materials
in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, or
otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 150.020)
§ 150.05 CODE AMENDMENTS; COPIED FILED.
   (A)   Amendments to codes. Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by
reference in §
150.04, which are from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or
organizations referred to herein, shall be effective in the city at the time
such amendments are filed with the City Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.021)
   (B)   Copies filed. An official copy of each regulatory code adopted in §
150.04 and official copies of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in
the office of the Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official copies
of the codes and the amendments.
(Prior Code, § 150.022)
§ 150.06 PROPERTY NUMBERING AND STREET NAMES.
   (A)   System adopted. The property numbering and street naming system
adopted on February 10, 1981, shall be controlling within the city limits and
is incorporated herein by reference, and a copy of such is on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 93.40)
   (B)   Owners to purchase numbers. Every property owner of improved property
shall purchase and display in a conspicuous place on the property the assigned
number which shall be a minimum of three inches high and of a type approved by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 93.41)
   (C)   Unlawful to deface number. It shall be unlawful for any person to
alter, deface, or take down any number placed on any property in accordance
with this section except for repair or replacement of the number.
(Prior Code, § 93.42) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.20 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall make periodic inspections of all buildings in
the city and ascertain if the provisions of this chapter are complied with, and
the Inspector alone or with the Insurance Commissioner or his or her deputy
shall, at all times, have the right to enter any dwelling, store, or other
building and premises to inspect same without molestation from anyone. It shall
be the duty of the Building Inspector to notify the occupant or owner of all
premises of any defects found in this general inspection and see that they are
properly corrected.
(Prior Code, § 150.035)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of inspectors to make periodic inspections, see G.S. § 160D-1117
§ 150.21 BUILDING DEFECTS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds any defects in any new building or
finds that the building is not being constructed or has not been constructed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter or that an old building, because
of its condition, is dangerous or likely to cause a fire, it shall be his or
her duty to notify the owner of the building of the defects or the failure to
comply with this chapter, and the owner or builder shall immediately remedy the
defect and make the building comply with the law. The owner or builder may
appeal from a decision of the Building Inspector to the Insurance Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.036)
Statutory reference:
   Defects in buildings to be corrected, see G.S. § 160D-1118
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1127
§ 150.22 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner or builder erecting any new building, upon notice from the
Building Inspector, shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms of the notice
by correcting the defects pointed out in such notice so as to make such
building comply with the Building Code, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Every day during which any defect in the building is willfully
allowed to remain after notice from the Inspector shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.037)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1124
§ 150.23 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Before commencement of any work for which a permit is required by G.S.
§ 160D-1110, the owner of the property shall apply to the Building Inspector
for a permit to build. This permit shall be given in writing and shall contain
a provision that the building shall be constructed according to the
requirements of the building law. As the building progresses, the Inspector
shall make as many inspections as may be necessary to satisfy him or her that
the building is being constructed according to the provisions of this chapter.
As soon as the building is completed, the owner shall notify the Inspector, who
shall proceed at once to inspect the building and determine whether or not the
flues and the building are properly constructed in accordance with the building
law.
   (B)   If the building meets the requirements of the building law, the
Inspector shall then issue to the contractor or owner of the building a
certificate, which shall state that he or she has complied with the
requirements of the building law as to that particular building, giving
description and locality and street number, if numbered. The Inspector shall
keep his or her record so that it will show readily by reference all such
buildings as are approved. The Inspector shall report to the Insurance
Commissioner every person neglecting to secure such permit and certificate and
also bring the matter before the City Manager for his or her attention and
action.
(Prior Code, § 150.038)
Statutory reference:
   Building permits, see G.S. § 160D-1110
§ 150.24 BUILDING PERMIT MORATORIUM.
   No building permit shall be issued for construction of a building on
property for which a petition for change of zoning is pending. This moratorium
shall be in effect from the time when such a petition is received by the city
until the petition is either denied or approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 150.039)
§ 150.25 PLAN OF CONSTRUCTION; CONTRACT COPY.
   A sketch or plan of all construction and a copy of the construction contract
shall be made available to the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.040)
§ 150.26 PERMIT TIME LIMIT.
   A time limit on all building permits shall be fixed at six months. If the
building is not started within that time, a new permit shall be obtained.
(Prior Code, § 150.041)
Statutory reference:
   Time limitation on validity of permits, see G.S. § 160D-1111
§ 150.27 PERMIT FEES.
   The rate schedule of fees to be paid to the city for building permits for
construction within the city shall be set from time to time by the Council and
is on file in the office of the City Clerk. Building permit fees shall be paid
by all firms, individuals, and organizations for construction within the city
and shall be the responsibility of the owner or owners of the property upon
which the construction is to take place; except, churches and duly chartered,
registered, and certified charitable and benevolent organizations shall be
exempt from the payment of such building permit fees. Social clubs, civic
clubs, and fraternal organizations are not exempted from the payment of
building permit fees under this section.
(Prior Code, § 150.042)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 DUTY OF OWNER; FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Whenever any building has been condemned by the Building Inspector and is
uninhabited or abandoned for use and the existence of the building in a
dilapidated state of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and
determined by the Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the
Building Inspector as provided in this subchapter, by the City Council, to be
dangerous to life, health, or other property or is in such condition or is
located in such proximity to other buildings as to constitute a fire or safety
hazard or a public nuisance, the owner of the building shall be required to
demolish and remove the same and remedy such conditions under the regulations
and procedures provided in this subchapter. If the owner fails or refuses to do
so within the time directed by the Building Inspector or by the City Council,
as hereinafter provided, the City Council may, in its judgment, cause the
building to be demolished and removed or such other steps to be taken as it may
find to be necessary to suppress and abate the nuisance and remove the fire or
safety hazard and the danger to life, health, or other property found to exist.
The City Council may specially assess the cost and expense of doing the work
against the lot or parcel of land on which the building is located.
(Prior Code, § 150.080) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.41 NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   Before any building may be ordered to be demolished and removed as
provided in §
150.40, the Building Inspector shall notify the owner thereof, in writing, by
certified or registered mail to the last known address of the owner, by
personal service of the notice by the Building Inspector or his or her
assistant or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building is in
such condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be
dangerous to life, health, or other property or to be a public nuisance and
that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place
in the City Hall at a time not less than ten days after the date of the written
notice; at which time and place, the owner shall be entitled to be heard in
person or by counsel upon all legal or factual questions relating to the matter
and shall be entitled to offer such evidence as he or she may desire which is
relevant or material to the questions sought to be determined or the remedies
sought to be effected.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice herein referred to shall be considered properly and
adequately served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building in
question at least ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing and a notice
of the hearing is published one time in a newspaper published in the city at
least one week prior to the date fixed for the hearing. The notice shall state
the address or location of the building and the time, place, and purpose of the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 150.081)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1121
§ 150.42 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon such hearing, the Building Inspector shall find that the building
in question is uninhabited or abandoned for use and is in such a dilapidated or
substandard state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to
be dangerous to life, health, or other property or is a public nuisance, he or
she shall make an order, in writing, directed to the owner of the building
requiring the owner to remedy the conditions so found to exist by demolishing
and removing the building or taking such other steps as may be necessary to
abate the nuisance and remove the hazards within such period, not less than 60
days, as the Building Inspector may prescribe; provided, where the Inspector
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
(Prior Code, § 150.082)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1122
§ 150.43 APPEALS; ORDER FINAL.
   (A)   The owner of any building ordered by the Building Inspector to be
demolished and removed or who is directed by the Building Inspector to take any
other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found by the Building
Inspector to exist shall have the right of appeal from the orders to the City
Council, provided that the owner gives notice of appeal to the Building
Inspector at the time of the hearing at which the order is made or within ten
days after the order is made and files with the Building Inspector a written
notice of such appeal. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor.
   (B)   Unless an appeal is taken within the time and in the manner prescribed
in this section, the action of the Building Inspector shall be deemed final,
subject only to such action as the City Council may take as elsewhere provided
in this subchapter. Where an appeal has been properly taken and notice thereof
given in accordance with the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty
of the Building Inspector to report the appeal to the Mayor who shall cause the
matter to be placed on the agenda for action by the City Council at its next
ensuing regular meeting. The City Council shall have the right to continue the
hearing of the appeal from time to time in its discretion.
(Prior Code, § 150.083)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals generally, see G.S. § 160D-1127
   Appeals on order to take corrective action, see G.S. § 160D-1123
§ 150.44 NONCOMPLIANCE REPORT.
   If the owner does not appeal from the final order or direction of the
Building Inspector requiring that the building be demolished and removed or
that such other steps be taken as may be required to abate the nuisance and
remove the hazards and fails or refuses to comply with the order or direction,
it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a written report stating
such facts with the Mayor who shall cause the report to be placed on the agenda
for action by the City Council at its next ensuing regular meeting or some
subsequent meeting to which the City Council may continue the same. The
Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by certified or registered
mail to the owner at his or her last known address or have a copy of the report
delivered to the owner. The report shall specify the date of the meeting of the
City Council for which the matter will be docketed for City Council action.
(Prior Code, § 150.084)
§ 150.45 HEARING OF APPEALS; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In all cases referred to in this subchapter which reach the City Council for
action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of the Building
Inspector or upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner fails or
refuses to comply with his or her order or direction, the City Council shall
hear the matter. If it finds and determines that the building in question is
uninhabited or abandoned for use and is in such a dilapidated or substandard
state of disrepair as to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous
to life, health, or other property or is a public nuisance and that the owner
of the building has failed or refused to abate the nuisance and has failed or
refused to have the building demolished and removed or has failed or refused to
take such other steps as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the
hazards found to exist, it may cause the demolition and removal of such
building to be done or effect such other remedies as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards and specially assess the cost of the work
against the lot or parcel of land on which the building was situated. The
assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot or parcel of land and
may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of the city in the nature
of an action to foreclose a mortgage as provided by state law in the case of ad
valorem taxes and local improvement assessments.
(Prior Code, § 150.085)
§ 150.46 NOTICE OF APPEAL HEARING.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give to the
owner annual notice of hearing in the manner provided in §
150.41 and has given such notice by posting and publishing the same as
authorized in §
150.41 and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or take
such other remedial action as will remove the hazards and such case is referred
to the City Council for action, the City Council shall, before taking such
action, cause to be posted on the outside of the building in question at least
ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing and published one time in a
newspaper published in the city at least one week prior to the date fixed for
such hearing, a written notice stating the address or location of the building
involved and the time, place, and purpose of the hearing and such other
information as the City Council may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 150.086)
§ 150.47 PRESUMPTION OF DANGER.
   In all cases in which the City Council causes the demolition and removal of
any building to be carried out or directs such other remedial steps to be taken
as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard
and danger to life, health, or other property, created and maintained by the
continued presence of the building in such condition as is found to exist,
constitute a clear and present danger amounting to a situation of emergency
involving the public health, safety, and general welfare which required entry
upon private property for the summary abatement and removal of such danger in
the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 150.087)
§ 150.48 FAILURE OF REFUSAL TO COMPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or City Council
made by virtue and in pursuance of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.088)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1124
§ 150.49 PROVISIONS ARE SUPPLEMENTAL.
   This subchapter is in addition to and not in substitution for any other
provision of this code or other ordinance affecting the same subject matter.
(Prior Code, § 150.089)
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.60 FINDING; INTENT.
   It is found that there exists within the city abandoned structures which the
City Council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the city due to the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children,
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-1201,
it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the repair, closing, or
demolition of any such abandoned structures in accordance with the same
provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing, or
demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Prior Code, § 150.100) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1201
§ 150.61 BUILDING INSPECTOR DUTIES, POWERS.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   The Building Inspector is designated as the city officer to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
         (a)   To locate abandoned structures within the city and determine
which structures are in violation of this subchapter;
         (b)   To take such action pursuant to this subchapter as may be
necessary to provide for the repair, closing, or demolition of such structures;
         (c)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
         (d)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or
assigned to him or her by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 150.101)
   (B)   Powers. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers
as may be necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this
subchapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
      (1)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the city in order
to determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence; and
      (4)   To designate such other officers, agents, and employees of the city
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.102)
(Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
§ 150.62 ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the city shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the city citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Building Inspector may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings, or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish, or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants in the
absence of sanitary facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
(Prior Code, § 150.103) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
§ 150.63 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by at least five residents of the city charging that
any structure exists in violation of this subchapter or whenever it appears to
the Inspector, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in the structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more 30 days after the serving of the complaint.
The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an answer to
the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the
place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be
given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating to such
structure. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After such notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state, in writing, his or her determination whether the structure
violates this subchapter. If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is in
violation, he or she shall state in, writing, his or her findings of fact to
support the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter, and
improve such structure or else remove or demolish the same within a specified
period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, the
Inspector may submit to the City Council at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the Superior Court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1208.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Inspector, within the time specified therein, if
injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (C)(1) above, the Inspector shall submit to the City Council an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause the structure to be removed or
demolished, as provided in the original order of the Inspector, and, pending
such removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160D-
1203.
   (D)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order, to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction,
restraining the Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided
by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Prior Code, § 150.104) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 160D-1203
§ 150.64 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be
made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at
least once, later than the time at which personal service is required under §
150.63. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 150.105) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
§ 150.65 IN REM ACTION; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter and upon
adoption by the City Council of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or
her to do so, as provided by G.S. §160D-1203 and §
150.63(C), the Inspector shall proceed to cause the structure either to be
repaired or else removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the
City Council, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such
structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the structure. Use or
occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of Richmond County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner
in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203.
(Prior Code, § 150.106) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 160D-1203
§ 150.66 COSTS OF LIEN.
   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203, the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Prior Code, § 150.107) (Ord. passed 10-12-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10 and § 160D-1203
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Findings; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Responsibilities of owners, occupants
   
151.04   Conflicts
Minimum Standards
   
151.15   Fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.16   Structural conditions
   
151.17   Basic utilities
   
151.18   Ventilation
   
151.19   Space, use, and location
   
151.20   Safety and sanitary maintenance
   
151.21   Infestation control
   
151.22   Rooming houses; exceptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.35   Building Inspector duties and powers
   
151.36   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.37   Enforcement procedures
   
151.38   Service of complaints and orders
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is declared that there exist in the
city dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, and other calamities; lack
of ventilation, light, and sanitary facilities; other conditions rendering such
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous, and detrimental to the health,
safety, and morals; and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of
the city.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of the city (as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12) it is the purpose
of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. §§ 160D-1201, 160D-1205, and 160D-1205, and
Chapter 160D, Article 12
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground having
direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part thereof which is wholly or partly
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, or habitation by human
occupants and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not
be regarded as a DWELLING. The term shall include, within its meaning, the
terms rooming house and rooming unit, as herein defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their food
by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, trapping, or by any other recognized and
legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets, and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or any authorized agent of the
Inspector.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in or having
actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or part
thereof in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person who, alone, jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
         (b)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit,
or rooming unit; or
         (c)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit as owner or agent of the actual owner or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner.
      (2)   Any such person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this chapter and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTY OR PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The City Housing Authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the city or of the county or
the state relating to health, fire, or building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any trailer or other structure used for human shelter
which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the ground,
to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or more
of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
   WORDS HAVING CERTAIN MEANING. Whenever the words dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, or premises are used in this chapter, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS, OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the
owner shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
(Prior Code, § 151.03) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.04 CONFLICTS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the city, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.15 FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation or held
out for use as a human habitation shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation any dwelling or dwelling unit which does
not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation
and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21.
(Prior Code, § 151.15) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters, or
other structural members shall not list, lean, or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated, or damaged and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers, or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets, and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated, or in danger of falling or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or untreated wood
floors on the ground.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.17 BASIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents, or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain electric
convenience receptacles connected in such manner as determined by the State
Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet room,
laundry room, and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type
electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not
provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room shall contain at
least three floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment, and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.18 VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or
any room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of the
room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the
total floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 50% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with Volumes I and II of the State Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.19 SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. All full stories must have all ceiling heights a
minimum of seven feet, six inches in all habitable rooms. All attic areas for
habitable use must have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, six inches
over one-third of each room.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. The floor area of any space where the ceiling height is
less than four and one-half feet shall not be considered habitable room area
and, therefore, not considered as part of the floor area for the purpose of
determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless: the
floor and walls are substantially watertight; the total window area, total
openable window areas, and ceiling height are equal to those required for
habitable rooms; and the required minimum window area of every habitable room
is entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the window
or windows face a stairwell, window well, or accessway.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 SAFETY AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls, and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall, and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof,
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair, and shall be capable of
supporting the load which normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every
exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other protective covering to
prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls, and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall, and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof, shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair and shall be safe to use and capable for supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight, and
rodent-proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.21 INFESTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies, and other insects, every window or other device with openings to outdoor
space used or intended to be used for ventilation shall, likewise, be equipped
with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents shall be equipped with screens or such other approved
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or
other pests therein or on the premises, and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish; storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every
dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate provisions for garbage and
rubbish storage and disposal. Properties within the city limits shall comply
with the regulations of Chapter 50. Properties outside the city limits shall
store and dispose of garbage and rubbish in a safe and sanitary manner. The
owner, operators, or agent in control of the dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the removal of rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.22 ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this subchapter and all of the minimum standards
and requirements herein shall be applicable to rooming houses and to every
person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another for
occupancy and any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory, and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition shall be supplied for each
four rooms within a rooming house, wherever these facilities are shared. All
such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and shall
be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not more
than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.
      (1)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the rooming house.
      (2)   He or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance
of the entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the
rooming house is contained if leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin,
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate
from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are accessible
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.35 BUILDING INSPECTOR DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the city in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing, or
demolition of the dwellings and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with §
151.36 and state law and shall be made in such manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes
of this chapter and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to such
officers, agents, and employees; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.36 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is authorized to
enter, examine, and survey, at all reasonable times, all dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming houses, rooming units, and the premises associated therewith.
The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or
rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the Inspector free
access to the dwelling and its premises, at all reasonable times, for the
purposes of such inspection, examination, and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any
part of the dwelling unit and its premises, at all reasonable times, for the
purpose of making the repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   When permission to inspect a dwelling or its premises is denied, the
Building Inspector must obtain a warrant to inspect; G.S. § 15-27.2 provides
for the issuance of warrants for the conduct of inspections authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 15-27.2
§ 151.37 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a Public Authority or by at least five residents of
the city charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue
and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such
dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony
at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also
be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating to the
dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give evidence
relevant in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before
the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state, in
writing, his or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is
unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or
dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state, in writing, his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter, or
improve each dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to
exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations, and
improvements have been made.
      (3)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state, in writing, his or her findings of fact to support such
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit, to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order to the Inspector to repair,
alter, or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter, or improve or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the City Council at its next regular
meeting a resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the Superior Court
for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Inspector as
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1208.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Inspector
within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) above, the Inspector shall
submit to the City Council an ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause the
dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, closed,
removed, or demolished, as provided in the original order of the Inspector and
pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on the dwelling as provided
by G.S. § 160D-1201.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspectors.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Board of Adjustment a
notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is
based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made.
         (a)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to
allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed.
         (b)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending
the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies
to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that, by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property; in which case, the requirement shall not be
suspended except for due cause shown upon not less than one days’ written
notice to the Inspector by the Board or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to G.S. § 160D- 1208 and division (E) below.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney.
         (a)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from and may make such decision and order as, in
its opinion, ought to be made in the matter, and to that end, it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector.
         (b)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals in any
case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector, pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §
160D-1208.
(Prior Code, § 151.37) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.38 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail.
      (1)   If the whereabouts of such persons are unknown and the same cannot
be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of such
complaint or order upon the person may be made by publishing the same at least
once, later than the time at which personal service would be required under the
provisions of this chapter, in a newspaper having general circulation in the
city.
      (2)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
   (B)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment consists of more than five members,
the Chairperson shall designate five members to hear appeals under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.38) (Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit
to fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same or to vacate
and close and remove or demolish the same upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as, herein provided, within the time specified in such order. Each
day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.37, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration, or improvement or its vacation and
closing. Each day that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 151.98)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty established by division (B)(1) above and
the remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this chapter may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 151.99)
(Ord. passed 8-9-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see G.S. § 14-4
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Housing moving permit
   
152.02   Street lighting provisions
Damage, Obstructions, and General Regulations
   
152.15   Damage to streets, sidewalks, and the like
   
152.16   Dangerous materials thrown on street
   
152.17   Removing, driving through barricade
   
152.18   Gates opening on sidewalks
   
152.19   Signs and awnings
   
152.20   Free passage of pedestrians
   
152.21   Snow to be removed
   
152.22   Encroachments; blocking streets
   
152.23   Machinery that may injure pavement prohibited
Construction
   
152.35   Openings to be filled
   
152.36   Driveway construction; cutting streets and sidewalks
   
152.37   Protection of openings
   
152.38   Curb cuts
Poles, Pipes, and Like Equipment
   
152.50   Placing poles; permits
   
152.51   Poles to be jointly used; city use
   
152.52   Care and inspection of poles; specifications
   
152.53   Standards
   
152.54   Pipes and valves; specifications
   
152.55   Deviation
   
152.56   Drawings of gas lines filed
   
152.57   Hearing of complaints
 
   
152.99    Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 HOUSING MOVING PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. No person shall move any house, building, or other
structure, except a mobile home, through or over any street, bridge, or
sidewalk in the city without procuring a permit therefor from the City Building
Inspector.
   (B)   Fee. Before a permit is issued under this section, the applicant shall
be required to pay a fee as set from time to time by the City Council and kept
on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Bond. The City Building Inspector shall, in his or her discretion,
require any person applying for a permit under division (A) above to file an
adequate bond to indemnify the citizens and the city for all the consequences
of moving the house, building, or other structure. If required, the bond shall
be conditioned to indemnify the citizens and the city in case of loss or damage
resulting from the following: any damage to any trees, pavement, street,
sidewalk, wires, fire alarm, police alarm, telephone or other pole, or any
other property of the city resulting from moving such structure.
      (1)   The permittee shall pay the owner when property is damaged in any
manner whatsoever by the moving of such structure.
      (2)   The permittee shall save harmless and indemnify the city against
all liabilities, judgments, costs, and expenses which may accrue against the
city, in any way, as a consequence of the granting of the permit or as a
consequence of moving the structure thereunder.
      (3)   The permittee shall indemnify any citizen or person or his or her
representative for any injury caused to any person other than the persons
engaged in the moving of the structure by the moving of the structure.
   (D)   Payment for anticipated damage. In cases where the cutting of wires,
the removal of poles, or the removal of or damage to the property of the city
or of any private persons is contemplated, satisfactory arrangements with such
parties for payment of the cost of the anticipated damage must be made before
the structure is moved. The City Building Inspector shall have authority to
enforce this section by withholding or suspending the permit in question.
(Prior Code, § 93.13)
§ 152.02 STREET LIGHTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Residential application. It shall be the intent of the city to provide
street illumination in residential areas adequate for vehicular and pedestrian
traffic based upon the following standards:
      (1)   A luminary fixture shall be provided at intersecting roads,
streets, or highways publically owned of intensity and distribution adequate to
illuminate the intersection for safe use by vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Additional fixtures shall be placed at approximately 400-foot
intervals proceeding from points of intersection. When single block lengths are
between 600 feet and 1,000 feet, a fixture shall be located as close to a
center of the block as is feasible.
(Prior Code, § 93.55)
   (B)   Commercial areas. Street illumination shall be provided in commercial
areas on streets of high traffic volume to the extent necessary, as determined
by the administrative staff, to include, but not be limited to: the City
Manager, Planning Director, and Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 93.56)
   (C)   Exceptions. Installations of street lighting fixtures in excess of
these provisions may be justifiable in areas of increased crime frequency. Upon
establishing adequate need, the City Manager may authorize additional
installations; however, all lighting installations shall be confined to public
rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 93.57)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 8-10-1982)
DAMAGE, OBSTRUCTIONS, AND GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.15 DAMAGE TO STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall willfully or wantonly injure any of the public bridges,
pavements, sidewalks, or property belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 DANGEROUS MATERIALS THROWN ON STREET.
   No person shall throw any plank with nails in it, glass, or anything else on
the streets that is liable to injure people, beasts, or vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
152.99
Statutory reference:
   Placing glass and the like injurious obstructions on roads, see G.S. § 136-
91
§ 152.17 REMOVING, DRIVING THROUGH BARRICADE.
   (A)   Removing barricades. No person, other than an employee of the city,
shall remove, tear down, or destroy any barricade which has been erected by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 93.03)
   (B)   Driving through barricades. No person shall drive any vehicle of any
kind into or upon any alley or street when such street or alley has been
barricaded by the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.04)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 GATES OPENING ON SIDEWALKS.
   All gates shall be so constructed as not to open on or upon any street or
sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 SIGNS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   Over sidewalks. All signs and awnings extending over the sidewalk
shall be securely affixed to buildings, shall extend not more than ten feet
over the sidewalk, and shall be at least eight feet above the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 93.06)
   (B)   Across streets. No person shall erect or place any sign, wood, cloth,
metal, or other material across any street of the city without a permit
(Prior Code, § 93.10)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 FREE PASSAGE OF PEDESTRIANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any article of any description
on the street or sidewalk adjacent to his or her store or place of business so
as not to leave the sidewalk clear for free passage of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 SNOW TO BE REMOVED.
   Each occupant of a business house adjacent to which the sidewalk is paved
must clear off the snow from same.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 ENCROACHMENTS; BLOCKING STREETS.
   (A)   Encroachment of streets. It shall be the duty of the Building
Inspector to notify all persons about to erect any building, sidewalk, wall, or
fence near the street or any public way or alley not to encroach upon such
street or public alley. If, in the opinion of the City Manager, any such
obstruction is being or has been constructed on any street or public alley, the
City Manager shall cause a survey of the line of the street or alley to be made
by a competent surveyor. If the survey shall show that the street or alley is
obstructed by the building, sidewalk, wall, or fence, the owner shall be
required to pay the actual cost of the survey and shall be required to remove
all obstructions at once.
(Prior Code, § 93.09)
   (B)   Blocking streets. It shall be unlawful for any singer or player of any
musical instrument to use the streets or any public place as a place to attract
crowds at such times when the streets are congested.
(Prior Code, § 93.11)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 MACHINERY THAT MAY INJURE PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive or permit to be driven over any hard-surfaced,
asphalt, or paved street of the city any agricultural machinery, such as
harrows and the like with sharp blades, discs, or spikes that will drag on the
pavement; any traction engine with caterpillar wheels; or any heavy piece of
machinery that will, in any way, damage or injure the paving.
(Prior Code, § 93.12) Penalty, see §
152.99
CONSTRUCTION
§ 152.35 OPENINGS TO BE FILLED.
   All openings made in any street or sidewalk under the provisions herein
contained shall, immediately upon the completion of the work, be filled in and
the surface thereof made flush with the adjacent surfaces. Any hard surface,
macadam, or asphalt removed shall be replaced by the city at the expense of the
person granted permission to open the street or sidewalk. It shall be unlawful
for such person to leave an opening after the work is complete or the time
provided in the permit has elapsed. Each day the opening is left unfilled in
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 93.25) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION; CUTTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person proposing to construct a driveway entrance into any
curbed and guttered section of any street within the corporate limits of the
city shall be required to remove the curbed and guttered section for the entire
width of the proposed driveway and to the nearest true joint.
      (2)   Permission may be granted by the Director of Public Works, with
proof of proper equipment, for the curb and gutter section to be sawed. The
proposed driveway shall be of a monolithic type construction and shall be a
minimum of six inches in thickness.
   (B)   No person shall make any excavation, cut, or other opening in any of
the streets or sidewalks of the city without first having obtained permission
from the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 93.26) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 PROTECTION OF OPENINGS.
   Any person excavating or opening any street or sidewalk within the city
shall protect the opening with a sufficient number of warming devices.
(Prior Code, § 93.27) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.38 CURB CUTS.
   Any person who tears up a sidewalk in the city for the purpose of
constructing a driveway over the sidewalk shall reconstruct that portion of the
driveway which crosses the sidewalk with a cement base of not less than six
inches in depth.
(Prior Code, § 93.28)
Statutory reference:
   City’s authority to regulate curb cuts, see G.S. § 160A-307
POLES, PIPES, AND LIKE EQUIPMENT
§ 152.50 PLACING POLES; PERMITS.
   (A)   No poles for electric, telegraph, telephone, or cable-vision service
or for any other purpose shall be placed on any street of the city without a
permit.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for the erection of poles on any street
where there already exists a line of poles supporting electric, telephone,
cable-vision, or telegraph wires.
(Prior Code, § 51.120) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 POLES TO BE JOINTLY USED; CITY USE.
   (A)   Joint use. Whenever any electric, telephone, cable-vision, or
telegraph company shall desire to place lines or wires along any street upon
which it does not have a line of poles but where there exists a line of poles
owned by another company, the companies may maintain their wires upon the same
poles. If an agreement cannot be reached between the companies owning the poles
and the companies desiring to place wires thereon, the companies may submit the
question of compensation to the City Council for determination. This section
shall apply to poles owned by the city as well as poles owned by companies
operating under franchises from the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.121)
   (B)   City use. One duct in all underground conduit systems shall be
provided for the city, free of charge for the city police, or fire alarm
telegraph system when required. The city shall have the use of any poles on
streets for the same purposes.
(Prior Code, § 51.123)
§ 152.52 CARE AND INSPECTION OF POLES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Care and inspection. It shall be the duty of the owners of all poles
supporting electric, telephone, cable-vision, or telegraph wires to keep them
in a safe condition and, for that purpose, to inspect them once every three
months.
(Prior Code, § 51.122)
   (B)   Specifications. Poles supporting electrical and communication wires
shall be located (as has been the long established custom) within the areas of
streets and ways behind existing street curbs or curb lines established by the
city, such area being commonly referred to as the UTILITY STRIP. Guy wires, guy
anchors, ground wires, and the like incidental thereto, which are maintained
partly beneath and partly above ground surface, shall be so located and
maintained that the parts above the ground surface do not unnecessarily
interfere with or endanger vehicular or pedestrian travel in the portion of the
street set apart for such travel. The poles and the like shall be so maintained
that the parts above the ground surface shall not unnecessarily interfere with
pedestrian traffic on sidewalks; provided, in instances where a sidewalk is
fully paved out to the curb, such poles and guy wires may be maintained
therein, in respect to the curb as if an unpaved strip existed, and provided,
further, in instances where space can be obtained for laying gas pipes in the
utility strip, set forth in §
152.55 by moving the electric or communication poles nearer to but not nearer
than six inches to the existing curb or curb line, the electric company, and
telephone company shall so move any poles maintained by each, subject to the
provisions of §
152.57.
(Prior Code, § 51.126)
§ 152.53 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards are created to be observed in respect to the location and
maintenance of clearances between pipes and appurtenant facilities used to
conduct commercial gas and the poles, pipes, and other equipment and other
appurtenant facilities used by all utilities operating in the streets and ways
under the authority of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.124)
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not be construed as an amendment or
alteration of any franchise granted by the city under which any electrical,
communication, gas, or other utility occupies streets and ways under the
jurisdiction of the city.
      (2)   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council to enact this
division (B) in the exercise of its police and other governmental powers to
control the location of the facilities of authorized public utilities
maintained in the public streets and ways for the general public welfare.
(Prior Code, § 51.125)
§ 152.54 PIPES AND VALVES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All pipes and appurtenant valves used for the distribution of natural or
commercial gas that are located in the streets shall be installed and
maintained beneath the ground surface. They may be installed and maintained
underground within the area of the utility strip described in §
152.53(B) when and only when the same can be done without disturbing the soil
or installing such pipe or facility nearer than the distance of 18 inches from
the outside surface on the property side of the pipes, poles, or other
facilities of any utility which is in existence at the time of installing such
gas pipe or appurtenant facility. If the utility strip along any street within
the city is not occupied by any facilities of any utility, then gas mains,
pipes, or pipelines may be laid in such utility strip; provided, the excavation
for laying of such gas facilities shall not be nearer than 30 inches to the
curb or curb line as already located or as may be established by the city. In
areas where no curb is now presently located, gas lines shall be laid at such
places as may be indicated by the City Engineer or other person designated to
perform such duties. The approval of such locations on non-curbed streets,
alleys, or public ways shall be obtained from the City Engineer before the gas
lines are installed. Such locations shall comply essentially with the
requirements set forth in this section for installations where streets
presently have curb lines.
(Prior Code, § 51.127)
§ 152.55 DEVIATION.
   In the event it shall be found that the location and clearances specified in
§§
152.53(B) and
152.55 cannot be observed at some points without undue hardship upon the
utility involved, deviation from the location and clearance at such particular
points may be made by written agreement between the gas operator and the
operators of the other utilities involved, subject to approval of such
agreement by the City Council or its duly authorized representative. In the
event of a failure of any of the utility operators affected to reach a
satisfactory agreement between themselves in such a manner as could be approved
by the city or its authorized agents, then any of the utilities shall have the
right to appeal directly to the City Council, whose decision in such cases
shall be final and binding on all of the parties concerned.
(Prior Code, § 51.128)
§ 152.56 DRAWINGS OF GAS LINES FILED.
   (A)   (1)   A gas utility, before laying any gas pipe in any street from and
after March 10, 1959, shall furnish to the city a drawing, with an original and
five copies, showing the depth and location of the gas line and appurtenant
facilities in reference to the curb or curb line, established by the city, in
such detail and with such accuracy that its location may be determined by
surface measurement measured from the curb, curb line, or other suitable
definite point. Such pipe shall then be laid at the depth and in the location
shown on the map. For gas pipes laid and appurtenant facilities installed prior
to March 10, 1959, such drawing shall be furnished to the city in the same
detail on or before June 10, 1959. A service line leading from the gas main to
serve a customer may be laid without first filing such drawing, but the drawing
shall be filed within 90 days after the laying of the service pipe, and
appropriate permanent markings shall be made in the curb line to indicate where
each service line leaves the mainline.
      (2)   The drawings so furnished to the city shall be permanently filed in
the office of the City Clerk and shall not be removed therefrom for any
purpose. One copy of such drawings shall be delivered to each of the other
utility operators who operate public conveniences over the public streets of
the city.
   (B)   Except as specifically provided in this section, division (A) above
shall not be deemed to apply to any pipes and appurtenant facilities in
connection with the use and distribution of natural or commercial gas laid or
installed prior to March 10, 1959.
(Prior Code, § 51.129)
§ 152.57 HEARING OF COMPLAINTS.
   In case any public utility company desires to be heard on the question of
any requirement of this section, such utility company shall file its objections
and contentions with the City Clerk in writing and immediately deliver to all
of the other utility companies a copy thereof, therein designating the time and
place that such complainant shall ask to be heard, and until such requirements
are met, the complaint shall not be heard.
(Prior Code, § 51.130)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person in violation of §
152.22 who shall be found to have encroached on any street or public way or
alley by any building, sidewalk, wall, or fence and refuses or neglects to
remove the same, upon notice from the City Manager, within one week from the
date thereof shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 93.09)
CHAPTER 153: COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive Planning and Development adopted
§ 153.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted, by reference, and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein the Unified Development Ordinance,
originally enacted on August 10, 1993, and readopted on January 13, 2004, and
December 8, 2020. Copies of the ordinance and all amendments shall be kept on
file and be available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 152.01)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
 
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                              Code Section
1A-1                                    130.25
                                        70.99;
14-4                                    94.99;
                                        130.99;
                                        151.99
14-4(a)                                 10.99
14-4(b)                                 70.99
14-127                                  131.01
14-144                                  90.05
14-145                                  131.08
14-148                                  90.05
14-149                                  90.05
14-159.13                               130.23
14-177                                  130.23
14-190.1                                131.02
14-202.10                               114.02
14-204(1)                               130.23
14-204(3)                               130.23
14-204(4)                               130.23
14-204(5)                               130.23
14-204(6)                               130.23
14-204(7)                               130.23
14-288.4                                130.04
14-317                                  130.02
14-360 et seq.                          94.05
14-399                                  50.32;
                                        92.21
15-27.2                                 151.36
15A-511(c)                              130.23;
                                        130.24
Chapter 20                              112.06;
                                        112.99
20-4.01                                 70.01
20-4.01(27)d1                           70.01
20-4.01(32)                             72.08
20-7                                    113.03
20-37.6                                 72.06
20-77                                   70.38
20-97                                   112.04
20-138.1 et seq.                        71.20
20-141                                  71.48
20-144                                  71.48
20-145                                  70.04;
                                        71.48
20-156                                  70.04
20-157                                  31.64;
                                        70.04
20-162                                  72.01
20-168                                  70.03
20-169                                  71.48
20-171                                  70.02
20-219.9 through 20-219.14              70.39
20-219.11                               70.38;
                                        92.39
20-280                                  112.02
Chapter 44A, Article 1                  70.38
44A-5(3)                                92.41
58-79-1 et seq.                         91.40;
                                        91.42
58-82-1                                 31.62
58-83-1                                 31.66
67-1 through 67-28                      94.05
67-2                                    94.22
Chapter 105                             32.27
Chapter 105, Article 5, Subchapter I    32.28
Chapter 105, Article 5, Subchapter VIII 32.27
Chapter 105, Article 9, Subchapter I    32.27
Chapter 105, Subchapter II              31.24
105-164.3(7)                            32.20
105-187.1(3)                            32.20
105-187.1(4)                            32.20
105-271 et seq.                         31.24
105-349                                 32.20
130A-19                                 92.58;
                                        92.63
130A-184 et seq.                        94.05
130A-196                                94.03
130A-200                                94.22
130A-311                                52.02
Chapter 132                             31.22
136-66.2                                Charter,
                                        Sec. 9.2
136-91                                  152.16
136-143                                 92.42
Chapter 143, Article 8                  Charter,
                                        Sec. 16.1
143-138(e)                              150.01
Chapter 159                             31.23
159-24                                  31.23
159-25                                  31.23
160-69                                  30.42
                                        Charter,
                                        Sec. 8.4; Charter,
Chapter 160A, Article 10                Sec. 8.5;
                                        92.61;
                                        150.66
Chapter 160D, Article 12                151.01
Chapter 160A, Article 17                Charter,
                                        Sec. 18.5
Chapter 160A, Article 19                Charter,
                                        Sec. 10.1
160A-22                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 2.1
160A-60                                 31.08
160A-61                                 31.05
160A-63                                 30.41
160A-66                                 30.01
160A-67                                 30.02
160A-69                                 30.03
160A-70                                 30.03;
                                        30.04
160A-71                                 30.21;
                                        30.24
160A-71(c)                              30.21
160A-74                                 30.20
160A-75                                 30.42
160A-147 et seq.                        31.20
160A-148                                31.20
160A-162                                31.05
160A-173                                31.21
160A-175                                10.99
160A-183                                91.18
160A-186                                94.20
                                        50.10;
160A-193                                92.58;
                                        92.63
160A-208.1                              32.23
160A-215.1(d)                           32.28
160A-215.1(e)(2)                        32.20
160A-215.1(f)                           32.27
160A-216                                51.44
160A-281                                31.25
160A-285                                31.43
160A-291                                31.26
160A-292                                31.26
160A-296                                93.15
160A-301(b)                             72.07
                                        112.03;
160A-304                                112.06;
                                        112.08;
                                        112.99
160A-304(a)                             112.07
160A-307                                152.38
160A-348                                90.08
160D-1104                               31.27
160D-1103                               31.27;
                                        91.37
160D-1110                               150.23
160D-1111                               150.26
160D-1117                               91.40;
                                        150.20
160D-1118                               150.21
160D-1121                               150.41
160D-1122                               150.42
160D-1123                               150.43
160D-1124                               150.22;
                                        150.48
160D-1127                               150.21;
                                        150.43
160D-1128                               150.02;
                                        150.03
                                        150.60;
160D-1201                               151.01;
                                        151.37
                                        150.63;
160D-1203                               150.65;
                                        150.66
160D-1205                               151.01
160D-1208                               150.63;
                                        151.37 
163-54—59                             Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.5
163-175                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.8
163-176                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.7
163-179                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.8
163-292                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 4.1
163-300                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.8
163-301                                 Charter,
                                        Sec. 5.8
163-302                                 30.43
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
10.18      10.18
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.03      30.03
30.04      30.04
30.05      30.21
30.06      30.24
30.07      30.25
30.08      30.20
30.09      30.21
30.10      30.22
30.11      30.23
30.12      30.23
30.13      30.40
30.14      30.41
30.15      30.41
30.16      30.42
30.17      30.05
30.18      30.43
31.001     31.01
31.002     31.02
31.003     31.03
31.004     31.04
31.005     31.05
31.006     31.06
31.007     31.07
31.008     31.08
31.009     31.09
31.020     31.20
31.021     31.20
31.022     31.20
31.023     31.20
31.024     31.20
31.025     31.20
31.026     31.20
31.027     31.20
31.028     31.20
31.040     31.21
31.041     31.21
31.055     31.22
31.056     31.22
31.057     31.22
31.070     31.23
31.071     31.23
31.085     31.24
31.086     31.24
31.100     31.25
31.101     31.25
31.115     31.25
31.116     31.25
31.130     31.27
31.131     31.27
31.145     31.28
31.146     31.28
32.20      31.41
32.21      31.42
32.22      31.41
32.23      31.43
32.24      31.44
32.25      31.45
32.26      31.46
32.27      31.42
32.28      31.40
32.40      31.61
32.41      31.62
32.42      31.63
32.43      31.62
32.44      31.64
32.45      31.65
32.46      31.66
32.47      31.66
32.48      31.60
33.01      32.01
33.02      32.02
33.03      32.03
33.04      32.04
33.05      32.05
33.06      32.06
33.07      32.07
33.15      32.20
33.16      32.21
33.17      32.22
33.18      32.23
33.19      32.24
33.20      32.25
34.01      33.01
34.02      33.02
34.03      33.03
34.04      33.04
50.01      50.01
50.02      50.02
50.20      50.25
50.21      50.26
50.22      50.04
50.23      50.27
50.24      50.28
50.25      50.29
50.26      50.05
50.27      50.06
50.28      50.07
50.29      50.07
50.30      50.11
50.31      50.03
50.32      50.30
50.33      50.31
50.34      50.32
50.35      50.33
50.36      50.08
50.37      50.09
50.38      50.34
50.39      50.10
50.40      50.03
51.001     51.04
51.002     51.02
51.003     51.06
51.004     51.03
51.005     51.05
51.006     51.07
51.007     51.20
51.008     51.20
51.020     51.08
51.021     51.08
51.022     51.08
51.035     51.21
51.036     51.22
51.037     51.23
51.038     51.24
51.039     51.25
51.040     51.26
51.041     51.27
51.042     51.27
51.055     51.40
51.056     51.41
51.057     51.42
51.058     51.43
51.059     51.44
51.060     51.45
51.061     51.46
51.075     51.60
51.076     51.61
51.077     51.62
51.078     51.61
51.079     51.63
51.080     51.64
51.081     51.65
51.082     51.66
51.083     51.67
51.095     52.01
51.096     52.02
51.097     52.03
51.098     52.04
51.099     52.04
51.100     52.05
51.101     52.06
51.102     52.07
51.103     52.08
51.104     52.09
51.105     52.10
51.106     52.11
51.107     52.12
51.108     52.13
51.109     52.14
51.120     152.50
51.121     152.51
51.122     152.52
51.123     152.51
51.124     152.53
51.125     152.53
51.126     152.52
51.127     152.54
51.128     152.55
51.129     152.56
51.130     152.57
51.140     51.01
51.999     52.99
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.03      70.02
70.04      70.35
70.05      70.35
70.06      70.03
70.07      70.04
70.20      70.15
70.21      70.16
70.22      70.17
70.23      70.18
70.25      70.19
70.26      70.20
70.27      70.21
70.40      70.35
70.41      70.36
70.42      70.37
70.43      70.38
70.44      70.38
70.45      70.38
70.46      70.39
70.99      72.17
71.01      71.40
71.02      71.41
71.03      71.42
71.04      71.43
71.05      71.01
71.06      71.15
71.07      71.44
71.08      71.45
71.09      71.02
71.10      71.16
71.11      71.17
71.12      71.18
71.13      71.19
71.14      71.46
71.15      71.20
71.16      71.21
71.17      71.22
71.18      71.23
71.19      71.24
71.20      71.47
71.21      71.25
71.22      71.48
71.23      71.48
71.24      71.26
71.40      73.01
71.41      73.02
71.42      73.03
71.43      73.04
71.44      73.05
72.01      72.20
72.02      72.21
72.03      72.01
72.04      72.02
72.05      72.01
72.06      72.01
72.07      72.03
72.08      72.03
72.09      72.09
72.10      72.03
72.11      72.04
72.12      72.22
72.13      72.23
72.14      72.24
72.15      72.05
72.16      72.06
72.17      70.99;
           72.07
72.18      72.07
72.30      72.08
72.31      72.08
72.32      72.08
72.34      72.08
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.07      90.07
90.08      90.08
90.09      90.09
91.01      91.15
91.02      91.16
91.03      91.17
91.04      91.04
91.05      91.04
91.06      91.04
91.07      91.18
91.08      91.19
91.09      91.04
91.10      91.20
91.11      91.03
91.12      91.01
91.25      91.02
91.26      91.02
91.27      91.02
91.28      91.02
91.29      91.02
91.30      91.02
91.31      91.99
91.32      91.02
91.45      91.35
91.46      91.36
91.47      91.37
91.48      91.38
91.49      91.39
91.50      91.39
91.51      91.39
91.52      91.41
91.53      91.41
91.54      91.41
92.001     92.01
92.002     92.02
92.003     92.56
92.004     92.57
92.005     92.58
92.006     92.58
92.007     92.59
92.008     92.60
92.009     92.55
92.010     92.61
92.011     92.62
92.025     92.20
92.026     92.21
92.027     92.22
92.040     92.35
92.041     92.36
92.042     92.37
92.043     92.38
92.044     92.39
92.045     92.40
92.046     92.41
92.047     92.42
92.048     92.42
92.060     92.63
92.061     92.63
92.062     92.03
92.063     92.23
92.064     92.03
92.075     92.03
92.076     92.03
92.077     92.04
92.090     92.05
92.091     92.05
92.092     92.05
92.999     92.99
93.01      152.15
93.02      152.16
93.03      152.17
93.04      152.17
93.05      152.18
93.06      152.19
93.07      152.20
93.08      152.21
93.09      152.22;
           152.99
93.10      152.19
93.11      152.21
93.12      152.23
93.13      152.01
93.25      152.35
93.26      152.36
93.27      152.37
93.28      152.38
93.40      150.06
93.41      150.06
93.42      150.06
93.55      152.02
93.56      152.02
93.57      152.02
95.01      94.01
95.02      94.02
95.03      94.03
95.15      94.20
95.16      94.21
95.17      94.22
95.18      94.23
95.19      94.04
95.20      94.24
95.21      94.25
95.22      94.26
95.35      94.05
95.36      94.05
95.37      94.06
95.38      94.07
95.39      94.07
110.01     110.01
110.15     110.15
110.17     110.17
110.18     110.16
110.22     110.18
110.23     110.19
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.04     111.04
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.05
111.07     111.06
111.08     111.07
111.09     111.08
111.10     111.09
111.11     111.09
111.12     111.10
111.13     111.11
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.01
112.03     112.02
112.04     112.03
112.05     112.04
112.15     112.05
112.16     112.05
112.17     112.05
112.18     112.06
112.20     112.07
112.21     112.07
113.01     113.01
113.02     113.02
113.03     113.03
113.04     113.04
113.05     113.40
113.06     113.41
113.07     113.05
113.20     113.20
113.21     113.21
113.22     113.22
113.23     113.23
113.24     113.24
113.25     113.25
113.26     113.26
113.27     113.26
113.28     113.27
113.29     113.28
113.40     113.06
113.41     113.06
113.42     113.06
113.55     113.42
113.56     113.43
113.57     113.43
113.58     113.44
113.59     113.44
114.01     114.01
114.02     114.02
114.03     114.20
114.04     114.21
114.05     114.40
114.06     114.22
114.07     114.03
114.08     114.23
114.09     114.24
114.10     114.25
114.11     114.41
114.12     114.04
114.13     114.43
114.14     114.44
114.15     114.45
114.16     114.46
114.17     114.42
114.18     114.42
114.19     114.47
114.20     114.05
114.21     114.06
114.22     114.06
114.99     114.99
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.03     130.03
130.15     130.04
130.16     130.05
130.17     130.06
130.18     130.07
130.35     131.01
130.36     131.01
130.37     131.02
130.38     131.02;
           131.99
130.39     131.03
130.40     131.04
130.41     131.05
130.42     131.06
130.43     131.07;
           131.99
130.55     131.08
130.56     131.08
130.57     131.08
130.70     130.08
150.001    150.01
150.002    150.02
150.003    150.03
150.015    150.04
150.016    150.04
150.017    150.04
150.018    150.04
150.019    150.04
150.020    150.04
150.021    150.05
150.022    150.05
150.035    150.20
150.036    150.21
150.037    150.22
150.038    150.23
150.039    150.24
150.040    150.25
150.041    150.26
150.042    150.27
150.080    150.40
150.081    150.41
150.082    150.42
150.083    150.43
150.084    150.44
150.085    150.45
150.086    150.46
150.087    150.47
150.088    150.48
150.089    150.49
150.100    150.60
150.101    150.61
150.102    150.61
150.103    150.62
150.104    150.63
150.105    150.64
150.106    150.65
150.107    150.66
151.01     151.01
151.02     151.02
151.03     151.03
151.04     151.04
151.15     151.15
151.16     151.16
151.17     151.17
151.18     151.18
151.19     151.19
151.20     151.20
151.21     151.21
151.22     151.22
151.35     151.35
151.36     151.36
151.37     151.37
151.38     151.38
151.98     151.99
151.99     151.99
152.01     153.01
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         112.08;
                     152.02
0-80-2   2-12-1980   72.06
0-80-5   5-13-1980   110.01
0-80-7   6-10-1980   71.02
0-80-10  8-12-1980   72.08
0-82-2   3-9-1982    31.22
-        8-10-1982   152.02
0-82-6   8-10-1982   72.01
0-85-3   6-11-1985   50.07
                     91.01;
12-86-6  12-9-1986   91.02;
                     91.35—
                     91.42
1-87-2   1-27-1987   112.06;
                     112.99
                     151.01—
                     151.04;
                     151.15—
-        8-9-1988    151.22;
                     151.35—
                     151.38;
                     151.99
                     113.01—
                     113.06;
-        5-9-1989    113.20—
                     113.28;
                     113.40—
                     113.44
-        7-14-1989   30.21
-        10-12-1989  150.60—
                     150.66
-        10-9-1990   92.99
-        1-14-1992   31.09
                     92.20—
                     92.22;
                     92.35—
-        6-14-1993   92.42;
                     92.55;
                     92.60—
                     92.62
                     52.01—
                     52.14;
-        8-10-1993   52.99;
                     92.05;
                     92.99
                     92.01;
                     92.02;
-        9-14-1993   92.04;
                     92.56—
                     92.59;
                     92.99
-        12-1-1995   131.08
-        1-12-1999   31.22—
                     31.24
-        6-13-2000   32.20—
                     32.28
                     111.01;
-        - -2001     111.02;
                     111.04—
                     111.10
                     114.01—
                     114.05;
                     114.20—
-        2-9-2001    114.25;
                     114.40—
                     114.47;
                     114.99
-        2-26-2001   111.11
-        - -2003     110.20
                     130.20—
-        - -2006     130.25;
                     130.99
3-1-07   - -2007     94.04
                     94.01—
                     94.03;
                     94.05;
6-3-07   - -2007     94.07;
                     94.22;
                     94.24;
                     94.25
                     94.01;
6-3-11   - -2011     94.22;
                     94.99
-        - -2012     112.06;
                     112.99
                     93.01;
                     93.02;
-        - -2013     93.15—
                     93.17;
                     93.30—
                     93.33
-        - -2021     92.05
-        - -2023     111.02;
                     111.03
                    
 
 
